ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51303	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 165 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in determining the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 130 MPs are present in the hall or that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending the session of MP Miletic Mihajlovic. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 87(2), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall inform you that this session has been convened within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and extremely, for Friday, so other than those laid down in Article 87(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for legislation in the agenda set out in the request of 195 MPs. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51304	Thank you, Chairman, for waiting for you to explain, in accordance with article 86, the reasons for a shorter period of seven days prescribed for the session. I find that member injured because your argument says nothing. You said you called a session within seven days because of the need to consider the agenda points proposed by 195 fellow Members of Parliament. By reading the draft laws, I could not understand the reasons why this member had to be violated, i.e. why this right of the chairman had to be applied, because the points that were proposed, which are the Law on salaries of employees in the public sector, the Law on General Administrative Procedure and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Territorial Organization, are absolutely by its content, by the time they enter into force and what there is no justification to shorten this deadline. If the proposed election of the defence minister was on the agenda, let's say, I could understand the speed, because yesterday we had a fact and the public could hear that the President of the Republic against the Constitution and the law passed on to one of its constitutions the authority to command the military in peace and war. Serbia has not had a defence minister in three weeks. We have an acting officer who will now completely oppose the law and the constitution to order the use of the Serbian Army as authorized by the president. I'm asking you to postpone the beginning of this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51305	Thank you. I believe the demands of 195 MPs are sufficient. Do you want the Assembly to plead? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter by Natasa Vučković, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51306	I report a breach of the Rules of Procedure of Article 87, paragraph 1, 2 and 3. According to our Rules of Procedure, the session of the Assembly is held from 10.00 to 18.00 hours and by 16.00 hours it is possible to decide that the session will be held after 18.00 hours. We started after 4:00 p.m. and we expect the session today to only last until 6:00 p.m. according to our Rules of Procedure. I ask you to take care of this and let the session end today by 1800 hours, as foreseen by our Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51307	Mrs. Vuchkovic, you know very well that is not the case when the new session is scheduled. The session was scheduled by 195 MPs per Rules of Procedure. Do you want the Assembly to make a statement? Yeah. ) Dear ladies and gentlemen Members of the Parliament meeting of the 7th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in 2016, which was convened at the request of 195 MPs, pursuant to Article 106(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 48(3). Law on the National Assembly and Article 249. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have also been sent to you for the maintenance of an extraordinary session of the National Assembly with a certain agenda contained in that request. As you could see, for the session of the 7th Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly in 2016, the following Dn e v n i red: 1. Proposal for a bill on the public sector wage system, submitted by the Government, 2. Proposal for a law on general administrative procedure, submitted by the Government, 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Territorial Organisation of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by MP Dr Branislav Blazic. National MP Igor Bečić, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 157(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principle search be carried out on the draft law on the public sector wage system, the draft law on general administrative procedure and the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the territorial organisation of the Republic of Serbia. Does MP Igor Becic want a word? No, I don't. ) (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51308	Thank you, Chairman, I believe the position of Article 27 has been violated. The Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, which says the President of the Assembly cares about the application of this Rules of Procedure. You have now read your proposal, and you didn't even want to explain to us the proposal to merge the agenda points, and I will repeat once again what three points of the agenda are -- one is the draft law on the public sector wage system, under two draft rules on general administrative procedure and under three, these two laws were proposed by the Government, and the third is the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Territorial Organisation of the Republic of Serbia, which was proposed by Dr Branislav Blazic. Article 157, which you have called upon, speaks of the possibility of bringing together a discussion of the agenda points that are conditional on each other and whose mutual solutions are linked. Reading these draft laws in this short time, which we've had, 24 hours and 15 minutes, I haven't been able to see any connection between these laws. So, the Public Sector Salary Act has absolutely nothing to do with each other's conditions with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Territorial Organization or the General Administrative Procedure Act, which is one systemically large law and cannot possibly be linked to either of these two laws. I repeat that I thought in these last few sessions that this ruling majority had exhausted everything at the end of democracy in parliament, but you surprise us, and every session you move that border ever lower and lower, not to say that we are sinking deeper and deeper. Please withdraw this proposal from the vote because it does not comply with the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51309	Time. Thank you. Mr. Djurisic, an extraordinary session was scheduled by the National Assembly President, Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, on the basis of the demands of 195 MPs. You now wish to deny me the right to make a proposal as a People's MP, one of the 250 MPs? Most in the National Assembly will either accept or reject the proposal. So as a colleague, you cannot deny me the right to be a messenger of the people to make a proposal that is according to the Messenger. I'm putting it to a vote. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) Here you are, MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51310	Article 92 and Article 107. - proposing a united debate for three agenda points that have no interrelationship with each other is something that has the worst effect on the dignity of this assembly. With all due respect to the parliamentary majority, with all due respect to the government's desire to show that it's doing something, it's unworthy for the people who elected MPs to give me on Friday, Saturday...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51311	That's your interpretation, Mr. Zivkovic. Do you want the Assembly to declare themselves on Voting Day? Thank you. He'll come out. National MP Sasa Mirkovic. Here you go, Mr. Mirkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51312	Can you just get me to talk?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51313	You just have to sign up so I can give you my word. You have to take out the card, put it back in, I can't give you my word. The system is... Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51314	Article 88. Rules of Procedure – opening the session and participating in the session and I will not tell you how you violated the Rules of Procedure. You'll figure it out yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51315	Thank you, Mr. Mirkovic. The word is Mr. Alexander Jerkov, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51316	You didn't ask me if I wanted to make a statement to the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51317	The assembly will plead on Voting Day, Mr. Mirkovic. Here you go, Mrs. Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51318	Thank you, Mr. Becic. It is the position of the 7th Article 92. - if the proposals set out in Rule 2 of this Article, which is your proposal to discuss the matter, are not submitted in accordance with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly will not consider them, nor will they be declared. This means, Mr. Becic, that you should not have put your proposal on the table, given that it is not prepared in accordance with the Rules of Procedure which clearly states what points of the agenda can be united, because you should not have put it to the vote because it is simply to put that proposal to a vote contrary to Article 92(7). So no one disputes you with the right to propose to the National Assembly to shorten the debate, extend the debate, unite, withdraw the agenda points, etc. but to all MPs, the Rules of Procedure prohibits the Assembly from making proposals that do not comply with this Rules of Procedure, and your proposal does not comply with the Rules of Procedure, so that the Assembly on it, Mr Becic, cannot be declared. There is simply so many that it can really decide that the country is a flat plate, but please don't do that because what you have suggested is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If the Assembly makes a positive statement about your proposal, it is only because it opposes the Rules of Procedure and puts a motion for a statement.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51319	Thank you, Miss Jerkov. I'm sure I don't remember, and I can't remember that you've reported for the violation of the Rules of Procedure when your MP group put 96 points of the agenda together and brought that debate together, so now if you're going to say that three points of the agenda in the Rules of Procedure can't have a motion to merge the debate, and 96 points, which you've suggested as a MP group of DS can, I don't know what else to comment on except the double arches that DS always has in these cases. Do you want the Assembly to declare themselves on Voting Day? Yeah. Thank you. Mr. Pavicevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51320	Dear ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Becic, you have now broken twice in one sentence, Article 108. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly which defines, as I think we all know here, including our guests and guests from the Government, holding order at the session of the National Assembly. You first did so by not allowing Mr. Zivkovic to explain why he felt that the injured Rules of Procedure had been injured in Articles 92 and 107. You interrupted it in 34 seconds without any excuse, and then you explained to Mrs. Jerkov why you suggested, past the Rules of Procedure, that three points of the agenda, which have nothing to do with each other, connect to one another, say that someone else used to do it, and now you're going to repeat bad practice. Mr Becic, you have just confirmed by reason that the solutions in these three legislative projects are not connected, and then you said – despite being connected we will connect them because someone has done so before. Mr. Becic, I believe that all MPs...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51321	Dear Professor, unfortunately, I don't expect you to be telling the truth like you're not talking right now. You know very well that according to the Rules of Procedure, the explanation of the application for the infringement of the Rules of Procedure is up to two minutes, when the chairman has enough arguments to give an explanation and to ask the MP whether he wants the Assembly to plead, at that moment he can react. Mr Pavicevic, as you have denied me the right as a National MP to make a proposal that most in the National Assembly will either vote or refuse, I have only set an example when I am denied the right to suggest that even then the parliamentary group of DS has proposed 96 points of the agenda and that this has also been adopted and that I have the full right as a MP to believe that I can propose a three-point merger. Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. Do you want the Assembly to declare themselves on Voting Day? Yeah. I thank you. Mr. Mirkovic, as you cannot now point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The chairman in his reasoning cannot harm the Rules of Procedure, Mr Mirkovic. Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 136, against – no one with abstention – has voted eight of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. We're going to work on the agenda. We move to work on the agenda: the draft law on the public sector wage system, the draft law on general administrative procedure and the draft law on amendments to the Law on the territorial organisation of the Republic of Serbia. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called on today's session to be attended by Dr Kori Udovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of State Administration and Local Government Milos Popovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Marija Lukic, special adviser to Deputy Prime Minister Natalija Pavlovic Šinović, Assistant Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government. According to the Rules of Procedure, Natasa Vukkovic is a national MP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51322	In accordance with Article 97(3), I propose a longer search period for parliamentary groups, since we have two very important laws on the agenda...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51323	Mrs. Vuchkovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51324	Since there's no reason for urgency...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51325	Mrs. Vuchkovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51326	They let me explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51327	Mrs. Vuckovic, you have every right to suggest, but we have not yet reached the part where you have the opportunity to suggest. Listen carefully to what I say.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51328	But since we want to point out in advance what is important for working on this session, please, the chairman, that you have no reason for urgency, for action and for the work of the National Assembly today. In line with that, we'll use all our business rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51329	Thank you. Keep that in mind when we get to that part and the possibility of you as a national MP proposing a longer debate. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is made by MP Sasa Mirkovic. Here you go, Mr. Mirkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51330	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Chairman, I have just reported in for a breach of the Rules of Procedure and I have asked you to give me an explanation. In fact, you've been obliged to give me an explanation for the violation of the Rules of Procedure you've done, if you've concluded what a violation of the Rules of Procedure is. So I'm referring to Article 103, you haven't given me that explanation...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51331	Mr. Mirkovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51332	I'm just asking you to take advantage of my time, or do you want to take away my word? If you're dealing with taking everyone's word away, it's not a problem, I'm gonna shut myself down.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51333	Which member of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Mirkovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51334	I told you, Article 103.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51335	Okay. You don't think I gave you an explanation?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51336	That's right, you didn't give me an explanation where you hurt the Rules of Procedure and how you hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51337	Mr. Mirkovic, don't listen very carefully, I said I didn't think I broke the Rules of Procedure and I asked you if you wanted the Assembly to plead? You said that...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51338	Yes, but you're obliged to give an explanation for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51339	Mr. Mirkovic, my argument is enough to believe that I did not violate the Rules of Procedure. Unfortunately, if you were often in this National Assembly Hall, you would know that in certain cases there is sufficient justification. I thank you, Mr. Mirkovic. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint principle search on the drafts of the law referred to in points 1, 2 and 3 of the agenda, and the opening of the search, I remind you, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs. (Nataša Vučković, from the city: Rules of Procedure! You've already made your point. I'm putting in your proposal... (Nataša Vučković, from the city: According to Business. Well, you can't do it twice on the same basis, Miss Vuchkovic. Please, if you want me to break the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51340	An explanation, since you interrupted me last time. So we're asking for extended time to discuss these very important two issues in principle, because you haven't convinced us that there's no reason for urgency, nor that there's any possibility that harmful consequences will arise. We, here, accept that we work at the weekend, because we are responsible for the citizens we represent and that is why we want to talk about these important laws in the extended time. There's no reason, except that the government's working badly, that we have to start a session at five in the afternoon and work for the weekend. The reason we're doing this is because the government passed the laws yesterday at the last minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51341	I thank you, Mrs. Vuchkovic. As we had the chance to notice, most adopted the proposal, and we had no vote against MP Igor Becic's proposal, so he doesn't understand what you're talking about right now. I am putting on a vote by Mrs Vuckovic to double the time for this united debate. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, v – one, abstention – one, did not vote 137 out of the 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle search on: a draft law on the public sector wage system, a draft law on general administrative procedure and a draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Territorial Organisation of the Republic of Serbia. Does the proposalor or representative, Dr Kori Udovicki, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government want the word? (Yes) Here you go, Mrs. Widowsky.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51342	Thank you, Chairman. Dear People's MPs and MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you very much for the opportunity to present to you the proposal for a bill on the public sector pay system. I'll define first. This law deals with pay arrangements in public administration and other state bodies and organisations that do not carry out economic activity. This is what is often referred to as a state in the usual language, and what is called a general state level in international practice. We do not yet have that term defined in our legislation, and in this law we call it a specifically defined public sector. First, I want to point out the main reasons why it was absolutely necessary to access the organisation of the country's wage system. The current status in the pay system is unsustainable. Structural weaknesses in the pay and control system resulted in a pre-glacial system with over 2,200 jobs, 70 different compensation bases, over ten different bases, over 900 coefficients, a large number of laws and sublegal acts that regulate pay levels in 11,000 budgetary institutions. This law solves this inability, the inability of effective control, the intransparency and injustice of the public sector’s wage system. He's taking the road. Namely, salaries and earnings of employees in certain parts of the public sector are currently arranged by a whole series of legal and sublegal acts or even general acts of employers. The majority of the specific laws are governed by specific pay and earnings regimes for certain bodies and institutions, starting with employees in individual ministries, who are separated from the general payment regime of civil servants and deputies, and through individual special organisations, certain bodies in the formation of ministries and independent and independent bodies, as well as employees in public services and bodies of the Autonomous province and units of local self-government. In addition, salaries of public agencies and individual organisations established by the Republic of Serbia, the AP or local self-government units are arranged in accordance with the general rules on labour and general acts of the organisation itself. The number of rules governing salaries and other remuneration of public sector employees has led to full inequality in rights, and due to the methodologically unequal approach and way of determining public sector employees' salaries. In addition, the basis for the calculation and payment of the earnings is not unique, but in the overall system it exists over ten different bases, which vary largely in terms of the amount, so that the relationship between the lowest and the highest range is from even one to 19. Most of the bases are determined by the government's conclusion, which is not normally published in the Official Messenger, thus not providing the desired transparency, while, on the other hand, the basis for salaries of civil servants and deputies is determined by the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for each financial year. For local self-government, there are three different bases, with the highest of almost five times the lowest. A specific conclusion by the Government of Public Services, including all levels of education, centres for social work, other public services at the republican and local level, cultural institutions, professional services of compulsory social security organisations, where the entire health sector is included, has established as many as five different bases. The situation is similar with regard to other elements for determining wages such as coefficients, salary increases and different benefits in case of sick leave, annual leave, etc. The fragmentation of the rules has obviously contributed to the problem of the management of the pay and earnings system, since for each group of public sector employees it is possible and necessary to make changes in laws and other acts relating to that group to the objective of change according to the rules of raising pay levels and additional fees, and without considering the same needs for changing other categories of employees. In view of the intransparency of such a system and of this kind of inability, any adjustment of earnings in one part of the system causes an avalanche to require that the elements of earnings are increased or adjusted in other parts of the system, partial, uncoordinated, unplanned, and that time inevitably causes the uncontrollable growth of the total fund of wages and earnings, in those parts of the system where there are clear criteria for determining earnings, they over-emphasis the role of the school's equipment, and other aspects of job evaluation or neglect or focus on those aspects which are particularly relevant to the actual performance. As a consequence, there has been a system where employees with high professional training, who perform complex jobs in some part of the public sector, sometimes have lower salaries than employees with medium professional training in another part of the system. This very often, simply is not fair or if it is just it is not clearly explained which in both cases seems extremely demotive to the employees. Also, jobs of the same complexity or even identical jobs in different parts of the public sector are often paid differently, and these differences in some cases may also be significant. This problem, particularly in the case of joint generic so-called jobs that are most easily comparable except when they are carried out in very different conditions which again the regulations do not necessarily recognise explicitly. At the same time, due to the intransparentity of the pay system, subjective perception among all employees is even more focused on the impression of huge and unfair differences, even where that is not the case. As a result, the Government has approached a fundamental reform aimed at creating a system that is simpler to manage control, more transparent and fairer, that will provide equal pay for the same within the system, and when it is not equal to the same job, that this is conditioned by clear reasons related to working conditions. In order to create such a system, the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, with the support of the World Bank and in co-operation with resolution ministries, other state bodies, AP Vojvodina authorities, local self-government units, public services and other partners, launched a number of activities to reform the public sector wage system. The Law on the Payment System ahead of you is the result of co-operation and consensus of a truly large number of stakeholders and social partners, detailed public debates and extremely contentious, numerous, frequent and essential consultations, which are conducted with all participants and with all stakeholders, and above all with trade unions. Interested parties had the opportunity to make their views known, primarily through a public debate on the draft public sector wage law, which was implemented between 21 October and 10 November 2015. During the duration of this public debate, the text of the draft law with reasons was set up on the Internet presentations by the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government and the Office for Co-operation with civil society, as well as on the portal "E" of the administration. Proposals for suggestions from the initiative and comments of the participants in the public debate were collected electronically for this purpose by an specifically open email address, as well as written via the address of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. The text of the draft law was presented in Belgrade on 28 October 2015 in the premises of the Palace of Serbia, a debate organised in Novi Sad, on 2 November 2015 in the premises of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, held in Nis, on 4 November 2015 in the premises of the City Assembly and at a debate organised in Kragujevac on 9 November in the premises, also in the City Assembly. The public debate was attended by representatives of the union, employees of public services institutions, representatives of state authorities and the AP authorities and units of local self-government, as well as employees of state bodies and authorities of the AP and local self-government units. Also in the organisation of the Serbian management union on 29 November 2015 in the union rooms in Belgrade, a debate was held, and the Union of Medical Sisters and Technicalians of Serbia organised a public debate on the draft law in the KBC premises on 12 November 2015. After the formal public debate was concluded, the ministry's dialogue with interested unions was continued and a number of additional consultations were held with the resolution ministries and them in the resolute trade unions that lasted until the text was brought into line. The best evidence that the public debate has indeed been open-ended and fruitful is the fact that the bill before you today is very different and significantly improved compared to the first draft, but the vision and approach have not changed. The key solutions were only changed in one important respect, and in the other, this proposal actually just went further in the steps that the first draft predicted. Let me say right away, the fundamental change was made in dialogue with the Ministry of Finance when a series of 50 paid classes went to the 13 pay groups matrix with a dozen paying classes in each. So it became more clear that this way the transparency of the system, and the process of setting this system itself, would be improved. The law also passed the institutional process of social dialogue with employers and trade unions on 29 November 2015 at a session of the Social Economic Council presented and discussed the draft law, and then the dialogue was continued in several more circles and work of the Working Group. We have paid special attention to the ongoing information and to the National Assembly and to the MPs. On 10 November 2015, a meeting of the Economic Cocusa was held at the National Assembly's home, the first one, and the second one was held again with a more elaborate, new, almost final version of the February 12th law. I would like to point out that the process of alignment has been difficult, serious and committed, and that it has produced a result in a mature legal text which now, in your form, now has all the necessary elements to start and direct essential wage reforms in the public sector. By passing state and government laws, the public sector pay system is obliged to be regulated on a uniform basis and is a step that solves a false dilemma from where this reform begins. In fact, during the consultation process, it was often heard that some other segment of the public sector had to be pre-arranged, starting with another point. All elements are in fact linked to the status of employees and the arrangement of their progress and their rewarding and impact measurement. And, therefore, pay as their element is the organisational forms that we have in the public administration, the public sector are all connected and we have to solve the reform problem in a way, to define a simultaneous way, and the best way is to start from pay. A system that is to this extent dysfunctional cannot be improved overnight. It is necessary to launch a coherent reform process that would bring the new wage system into practice. In this respect, this system law represents the smallest common container to make salaries comparable and introduces common principles for all specific laws, whose adoption will follow and which specific pay elements for each part of the system will be accurately established. At the same time, it leaves this law with enough flexibility and space not to put all the parts of the system in its grip, which can actually not recognise the specificities of any part of them. The advantages of adopting such a law in the pay system with the proposed institutes are its real feasibility, as in a relatively shorter period of time, given the comparative experience of other countries where such reforms have lasted for several years. I have to say, this reform has been initiated several times, it has lasted many years and for us, and every time this government's position has given up that it was precisely because it was trying to make a system that was less flexible, more rigid, based on a smaller number of criteria and elements and it was simply impossible to force the whole system into something so rigid. The second advantage of this approach is its gradual implementation through specific laws, which would not prejudice institutional and administrative capacity during this process. The adoption of this law achieves the following concrete objectives – the establishment of the basics of the pay system, in order to determine the height of the salary in a unique and transparent manner. Under two, improving mechanisms, control and transparency in how to edit and determine the height of the salary. Under three, easier comparison of wages in different parts of the system and easier control of changes in individual subsystems. By establishing the single basis of the Budget Law, by establishing the range of payment groups and payment classes, the evaluation criteria and general descriptions of payment groups, by establishing a catalogue of jobs, titles and positions, a transparent, comparable and controlled wage system will be established. So, to illustrate, according to the rules of this and the special law that has been passed, some particular job or calling will be classified into the appropriate pay group, and if it is a situation that someone has yet to start working in that workplace, they will be classified into one of the three initial payment classes. In addition to this initial salary, this system of wages allows for promotion through pay classes within the same pay group, based on the work effect, in line with the strategic definition that the total salary should also depend on the work results. So we want to finally be the best reward for your quality of work, and the rules of progress should make it possible. Where there is still no orderly system of progress and impact measurement, this system law requires that progress be clearly and transparently arranged, but also allows for transitional rules to be established on the basis of which work will be valued until full system editing. In order to compare the system with the transitional provisions, a single basis is established to recalculate the existing coefficients, in order to identify the analysis of the effects in an adequate manner, since the available data are not readable at first glance, as it would say, are already indirectly implemented and with great work. So, using this calculation base, they all keep the amount of salary they have at the moment when the calculation is made on the date of entry and this law is in force, and for three months when this calculation is carried out, but with that calculation that divides the existing salary with the calculation base, the comparison of the coefficients obtained is achieved. So to repeat again, the pay remains the same, the base remains the same for everyone, and the coefficients only change calculatedly, so that they are comparable and that by multiplying with that same base, they would give the same salary that the employee has today. This makes us comparable, thus achieving a basic starting assumption for the adoption of appropriate specific laws that will determine a new wage system. In the previous period, due to the situation in the pay system, which I initially described, the coefficients stopped expressing what should be expressed, which is the value of jobs, intercomparability among them in a job. Due to the chaotic wage movement of individual categories of employees and a large number of basics, a comparison, as I have already said today impossible, and the coefficients have lost their meaning. In addition to the complexity of the tasks, a number of reform processes launched, rationalisation, sectoral reforms, European integration, etc., the capacity of the central administration and all institutions involved for the new comprehensive wage reform process have been taken into account, very limited. The positive side of this solution is also the fact that at the first moment those parts of the system that have already been reformed and recently decorated in accordance with European practice would not be touched in a transparent manner. As far as social dialogue is concerned, this gradual approach allows for further constructive negotiations with union representatives, when making specific laws, especially in the process of placing jobs in the appropriate paying groups and these initial paying classes that I have already illustrated in the context of the matrix set out in this law, and starting with the criteria for the evaluation and description of paying groups given in this law, while closer criteria for applying the criteria and the method of classification would be laid down in specific laws, depending on the specificities of the transactions carried out in the specific parts of the public sector. This semi-centralised system is based on the fact that system law establishes basic and common rights for the whole sector, as well as basic principles and principles and one payment matrix with range of payment groups and payment classes. It's a centralized part of the model. The decentralised part shall be based on the fact that specific laws will establish individual rights specific to certain parts of the system, the criteria and the way in which the workplaces are evaluated, the criteria and the performance criteria, more specifically for each part of the system than for the whole. In order to clarify, we point out that under a special law, we are referring to laws that will regulate salaries of public service employees, in education, in health, social protection and the like, to the authorities of the AP unit of local self-government, in public agencies and in other bodies and organisations established by the Republic of Serbia, AP or local self-government units. This is stated in the transitional and final provisions of the law, as well as in specific laws in certain parts of the public sector, such as the Law on the Police, or the Law on the Army and other special laws. Although the law determines one matrix of coefficients, its rigidity is reduced by introducing ranges in paid classes instead of one fixed coefficient in each pay grade, which facilitates the initial classification of jobs, i.e. the introduction into the system, as well as the evaluation of the results of work in accordance with budgetary opportunities that will not always allow for transition from one to another pay grade, at once and in one step. A circled wage system will be achieved through the adoption of this and the special law. So, to recapitulate, special laws will be closer to setting criteria for the classification of jobs or calling in paying groups and paying classes. They will determine the conditions and circumstances under which the right to a correct coefficient is exceptionally achieved in relation to the coefficient in the matrix. It is achieved, notably, only when there are permanent conditions for the performance of jobs or other permanent circumstances that arise in the jobs of the relevant job, which are not taken into account in the evaluation of the job in a wider number of cases. Special salary increases for individual public sector subsystems, which appear on a regular basis, but only in one part of the public sector, e.g. on-call healthcare due to the obligation to provide health services 24/7, rules and criteria for promotion and award. Finally, this law regulates and retains the founding salary, with the determination of the way in which the established salary at the height of the future salary established according to the new system, which must be adapted to the possibilities of the Republic of Serbia's budget and which will be implemented since 2017. Before I introduce you to the main legal solutions, I would especially like to highlight an extremely significant circumstance that has not caused so much attention in the public debate so far. This law also introduces a system of promotion through payment classes, i.e. the possibility of evaluating the results of work in the same workplace through payment classes. Given that there is no regulated system of progress in most of the system, that is to say, progress through the pay grade through the results of the work, this cannot be expected to take place immediately because it takes time to establish this mechanism. However, it is necessary for specific laws to establish criteria and criteria for the evaluation of the results of work, as well as conditions for progress. This will make a major step forward towards a more efficient administration. Progress criteria must rest on the evaluation and performance of each employee. This process is therefore an opportunity that we must take advantage of to set the rules for the evaluation of the work effect by taking pictures of the service orientation of the public administration and the public sector and to value the work by putting the citizen and the economy to the centre of attention that we need to provide a public service. This makes the Payment System Act a major step towards the fundamental transformation of our public administration. Transitional solutions allow, of course, payments to be determined without progress and impact evaluation until the relevant systems are introduced. Moreover, it would not be necessary to move on to the system, under the quotes of "rewards" for progress and impact unless good measurement systems have been established and verified. It is also provided that employees may exercise the right to an increased salary under conditions and in such a way as to establish a specific law, if such an increase justifies specific working conditions or other circumstances under which transactions are performed occasionally and which are not taken into account in the evaluation of jobs, i.e. when establishing a corrective coefficient. This is especially true for police officers and the variable security circumstances in which they work. For example, by facing an inflow of large waves of immigrants or by providing large international gatherings and such. Another important note refers to the scope of the law, which was much more controversial during the public debate. This law, I must stress once again, will affect public sector employees as I explained at first, defined as the general level of the state and about 500 thousand employees. I won't list here, they're listed in the first and second members of the law. But I would like to stress that the observation made during the public debate and the consultation process that this law does not cover the entire public sector, i.e. public enterprises and companies whose founders of the Republic of Serbia, the Autonomous province or units of local self-government, are not accepted because the new public sector wage system is based on the work and nature of the business provided by the administration or public service and which has always been governed by specific rules. On the one hand, such laws serve to arrange salaries in providing state services that are mostly not available on the market, so they cannot be valued on the market, nor can employees be valued by a simple comparison with the market. On the other hand, this kind of wage adjustment would bring us back to the central planning time when companies were not expected to operate according to business principles. The corporate public sector should be regulated, above all, by strengthening the principle of responsible corporate governance and state control over it. If such a system is not established, neither will the Law of Salaries help us. By setting up the public sector in the way it was done in the provision of Article 1. The bill also came from international standards and the International Monetary Fund. It means to be in the idea of so-called. the general state level does not cover those forms of organisation whose results are measurable and whose business is organised as is done with market players. Since no precise definition of the public sector has been established so far, nor is the definition of public administration, and the aim of this law is to regulate the pay system in that part of the public sector relating to the general government in terms of those international standards and practices, including the narrow concept of public administration in terms of the public administration reform strategy in the Republic of Serbia, including independent and independent state bodies, this has resorted to the number of employees to which the law will apply. As for the specific legal provisions, let me introduce to you, I think I will leave the most important solutions for discussion, because today there are two system laws on the agenda and I do not want to exhaust the MPs with the text. So, we can talk about specific solutions further in this session as well as when we discuss amendments, but I would just like to conclude that this law is necessary for the regulation of the public sector wage system, because I believe that a good and functional model of the payment system is chosen to achieve the main reform objectives. Then, the law is the result of exceptional effort and coordination, including social partners and monitoring of similar solutions and experiences, as well as of the World Bank's professional assistance. Finally, and most importantly to stress that this is a necessary, large but yet first step towards public sector regulation, and especially the country's wage system. He set the principles, but before us, and before the next government, it is a difficult task and a responsible task to fully and ultimately implement the principles of this law through the adoption of specific laws, and in this process to also take care of further rationalisation and rational use of funds in public administration. Also, as part of the public administration reform and the action plan that this government has adhered to and I believe that it will continue to be implemented within and with a strong commitment to European integration, this law will ensure its consistent implementation, and will allow for the modernisation of public administration in the best possible way. I call on you to support these efforts by the government to regulate the pay system in a fair and transparent and manageable manner and to vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51343	Thank you, Mrs. Widowsky. Does Mr. Branislav Blazic want the word as an authorised representative of the promoter? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51344	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted a proposal to supplement and amend the Law on the Territorial Organisation of the Republic of Serbia. Basically, it is a proposal and hope and a desire for Kikinda, Vršac and Piroth to get the status of the city. I'll sum you up just read the reasons I listed when I wrote this bill. Vršac, Piroth and Kikinda are border municipalities to help create conditions for more investment and better economic development by giving city status. From border places such as Vršac, Kikinda and Pirot, the outflow of the population, especially young and professional people to central areas of the state, has been strengthened. This negatively reflects the country's security and proper regional development. Improving the status of these units of local self-government will contribute to their development and full use of economic, human and natural capacities. Given that there are specific economic, demographic and geographical reasons, Vrsac, Kikinda and Pirot should be given city status, as proposed by amendments to the Law on Territorial Organisation of the Republic of Serbia. That's what's written, but I want to tell you right now that that's a different version of the proposal. For the sake of honesty to you, the first version was exclusively written for the Kickinda, for the city where I was born, in which I lived for 50 years, to which all my plans bind me, all my beginnings, joys, sorrows, the city that even today when I'm traveling with me. But when I submitted that proposal only for Kikinda, Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic said - well, the argument is completely in place, but we can say the same about Pirot and Vrsac. Then I realized what a difference it was in thinking between local and global. Also, MPs from Pirot, Vrsac, have made every and every effort to make their contribution to this bill on the agenda. For all this, I also owe gratitude on behalf of both the Pyrocans and the Vrscans and the Kickinjans to the prime minister for having heard and willing and willing to give us a chance, to give us the opportunity that these spaces of Serbia can, even though they are at the border, experience a better economic and economic development. The kickinda citizens' initiative hasn't been since yesterday. The proposal has been for several years and it is not a proposal by any party and it is not a proposal from any government, it is a proposal from people who have felt that they have been denied something. We submitted petitions, however, there was never any hearing. There was always a closed door, always the first word was - no or can't. Today is another time in Serbia. Today there is one who will listen to you, today there is one who will understand you and today there is one who wants to help you. Kikinda is the headquarters of the Northobanat County. There is also Choka, Knezevic, Kanjiž, Senta and Ada in that district. The city was created in 1750, as Austria sent Serbian soldiers border guards to protect their borders on Tissi and Morris from the Turkish invasion. It all went on until the peace of Fire was reached, when Austria and Turkey made peace and stopped the need for Serbian border guards. Serbs, then the border guards are starting to deal with wartime production. However, as this usually happens when the court's dependence ends on the needs of soldiers, the Austrian court has begun to deny certain rights to Serbs on the territory of today's Kikinda. The Serbian reaction was magnificent back then. They sent one of their delegations to Vienna, and the other Serbs took their strength and what they had, came to the square in the city center and said let's go, let's go to Russia. Maria Teresa, the Empress, then realized she had to do something. She gave a great autonomy to the Kickindi. The 1774 Grandkid District was created, a particularly privileged status of the then-Kikinda on the territory of Austria. In 1893, Kikinda also received the status of the city of Austro-Hungarian as the largest city in Banat. From that time on, we can say some comparisons. In 1857, the first railway and the oldest railway in Serbia, while the 13th track in Europe along a broad track, was built Segdin-Kikinda-Temisvar. Back then, in 1857, trains on that track were traveling at a speed of up to 120 kilometers an hour, and freight trains up to the table. Today it is hardly possible to develop a speed of 60 kilometers. However, those stripes are gone today. This railroad was also used by famous European expresses, Ostende Express and Orient Express, Ostenda, who came from London, through Ostende, Munich, Budapest, Kikinda, Temisvara to the Black Sea, and the Orient Express, written by Agata Christi, was from Paris, via Venice, Zagreb, Vinkovac, Subotica, Kikinda, Temisvar to Istanbul. That's when it was that time. Today we want that railroad that was destroyed in World War II to return. It will mean a great deal to the development of the region, because the desire to get the status of the city for Kickinda is not only to help Kikinda, it is a desire to join the municipalities of the town, such as Choka, the New Prince, New Vienna, as well as the Serbian Montenegrins, together, to create a strategy for the development of today's space, which is quite devastated and much at the border because of everything else that has followed it through its history suffered. What is essential, Kikinda was granted freedom on November 18th 1918, by entering the predecessor of the king's army and that is when Serbs experienced the success of joining the Mother of Serbia. She got that freedom, but she came to the border, and the border like a border, she can be a place of merger, she can be a place of co-operation, but she can also be a place of separation of people. At the time of the Warsaw Pact after World War II, the border towards Romania and Bulgaria was more of a wall. They crossed her to come to us for freedom, to flee across that border into freedom, and we had no reason to go there. And then, as it happens, everything sometimes turns around, we go crazy and time goes crazy, people go crazy, and they start to cheer up. And today, those in the EU, and we create and build all over again. But, it doesn't matter, we're going to start over as we managed to get at that border here about 8 December 2014, only a year ago, to finally open that border between Lunga and Nakova. He opened Prime Minister Vukic, along with Romanian Prime Minister Ponto, so for 30 years, the fight of Kickinda was to open to Romania, the largest city on the border with Romania, which is 584km long, has never had its major crossing, and today thanks to this government and thanks to its great engagement and has. Kikinda was a city of young people. You won't believe it, but in the old Yugoslavia, SFRY, Kikinda was the third city per GDP. She worked Livnica "AI" with 6,000 employees, "Toza Marković" with 2,000, PIK "Prima", "Hemik", "Metanol", "Banat", a agricultural combination that had several thousand employees, "Banini", etc., a huge industry, huge development, but unfortunately, exports were oriented and the economy did not endure. On the one hand, she has not endured sanctions, on the other hand, robbery privatisation has reached its end. Kikinda is rising from the ashes again today. The young leave, though, but we are doing everything possible to stop that trend. They'll be born back in kickind, like the owls came back, but for that we need support, which is why we need your support. We need a chance to get that rich city back where it belongs. We started, "Metanol", which stood for years, the "MSK complex" started working again. Over 500 workers have returned to work. The conditions were created, the industrial zone, the infrastructure, everything was prepared. Two, three big investments are expected next year. Why do I think Kickinda has a chance? It's, first of all, the resources it has, the oil, the clay, the oranics. Oil, 45% of Serbia's total oil production is produced in the Kickindian atara, 62% of the total gas production is produced in the Kickindian atara. Today there are 3.5 million tons of oil reserves and 300 million cc's of gas reserves. Kickinda's a little Kuwait, just a little poorer. Six-fifteen wells in the Kickindian Athar, of which 345 are active. Imagine, since 1962, oil extraction and gas extraction have been taking place from kickinda, and Kickinda hasn't had much of it. Three percent of the mining rent that was received, the lowest mining rent, and that's what the bad government took from us in 2000, one third goes to the Republic, one third goes to the province, and the Kickindi remains only one third. But we don't complain, we fight as we know it. But what gives us hope again, and so are these resources, which is clay, because Toza Markovic was a company that was one of the largest companies in Europe in the production of scratches and tiles. Robbery privatization destroyed the plants, everything was devastated, trying to restart. Above the ground are fertile ornaments, agriculture, just to say, 70,000 acres of farmland. We put great hope in the “Tenis” that will come. We have great hope that with the chain of development of agriculture we will be able to launch our agricultural production. What we need next to that railroad I said, we need another connection, and that's the Banat highway. If we can do that, if the state hears about it, if we connect and connect, Kikinda will, I'm sure, develop very quickly. Many centuries have passed, they say the truths sleep in old books. I've tried to tell you some of those Viking truths. And there will be many more. We will leave, some others will come and many will change, and the city, the city, will live. His history will be told by his streets, his buildings, his hurricanes. What's important is that today in kickinda is very difficult, but we're gonna fight, we're not gonna give up. Today, the Kickinians pass 22th best street in the world. Of the 50 best-known streets, the 22nd place is Kickind Street General Drapshin. Music is still being heard today, and today a round is being played by the “Gusle” Academy Society, which is the oldest Academy Music Care Society in the Serbs, and was founded back in 1876. Therefore, we don't ask much of you. We're asking that both Vrsca and Pirot and Kickindi give you a chance. Give us that chance. They were cities that were vital. Give us a chance to organize ourselves, create a whole other territorial organization, try to secure investors in a bigger space, work, provide opportunities for development. Be assured that these are people who will know that they appreciate it and who will know that they are realizing it. In the end, I might end up a little unusual for this congregation. I'll say hello to you in a verse by Mike Antic, poet of the wet and the world. In the poem “Kikinda” Mika says:“ Under the kickinda green grass is green, there sleeps a decapitated head, and hung with hair cut, in a towel like a cake worn. Oy Kikindo, thank you mother, till the sun, Oe Kikindo, thank you mother for being alive."
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51345	Thank you. The word has been given by the Deputy Prime Minister Dr. Kori Udovicki to explain the draft law on general administrative procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51346	Dear Chairman, honourable Members of Parliament and MPs, it is a great pleasure for me to give a few opening remarks on the proposal for a law on the general administrative procedure that is before you today. I would like to emphasise, when the vision, solutions and principles of this law are brought to life, it may be one of the greatest steps that we will take on the way to feel and to be truly, European citizens. What this law changes is the most difficult legacy we have in the past, which is that the relationship between the state and citizens is such that a citizen feels a sense of awe and frustration towards the state and that this country is very often unable to provide those services and those support that we need as a society so that we can really step into far faster economic development and clearer achievement of our development goals, needs and civil rights. However, the responsibility we felt working on this law was very high, because it was about the law that needs to be replaced by the law, today's Law on General Administrative Procedure, which has been passed for many decades and has been applied for many decades. I know a large number of excellent civil servants, whom I very much respect and who speak of the Law of Administrative Procedure, literally, with love. It's a law that deserves respect, but it's still a law that's time to change. The achievement of the goal ahead of us, the transformation of the administration, if you will, in the service of citizens and raising its quality and efficiency, implies a comprehensive reform of the public administration, not only the amendment of the legal framework. However, the General Administrative Procedure Act is, to the greatest extent, a key legal basis, a condition and support for this necessary and long-awaited legal and institutional change. The new legal framework also monitored the EU accession process and the necessary harmonisation of this law to international standards, in particular the principles of the European administrative space. The reasons for the adoption of this law are to meet the standard of good administration, i.e. the administration that should, not only act by law, but in a professional and efficient way, meet the requirements of citizens and businesses in a timely manner, adapting to the needs and interests of the time in which we live. The law represents a powerful tool in the hands of citizens, businesses and the administration itself that will lead to a more effective achievement of public interest, as individual interests of citizens and legal persons in administrative matters. The process of drafting the text of the law is an example of openness and a broad and inclusive consultation process involving representatives of public administration, professional and general public from the Republic of Serbia and the region. Three large conferences have been organised, as well as a series of consulting seminars and meetings. All of them have contributed greatly to the further analysis and improvement of the proposed solutions. The debate was open, inclusive, and in it we really talked, we were truly thinking, we were persuading, and we were convinced. The wording process marked not only the active participation of several hundred representatives of the professional and general public, but also the pioneering step of making, an analysis of the effects of the general administrative procedure law, which is the first one in the region. The analysis showed a number of weaknesses in the system, such as, for example, lack of relevant data or inadequate keeping of records of the administrative procedure. At the same time, she directed some newspapers towards sustainable solutions leading to the establishment of a responsible, efficient and effective administration. The Special Working Group of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government composed of representatives of the resolution ministries and state bodies, from academic citizens, professors, experts of administrative law from the Republic of Serbia, judges of the administrative court, has defined that the solutions contained in the General Administrative Procedure Act, which is before you, are largely based on the 2013 Proposal for a Law on General Administrative Procedure. However, the text that is before you has been improved by a number of newspapers and significantly relieved of unnecessary provisions. All in all, in the text of this law, or new law, some of these variations have not been so similar to this, they have been intensive for six years. Before we enter a more detailed discussion of the solution to this law, I would just like to say in the most general lines that the new General Administrative Procedure Act brings three key newspapers. It is one that extends citizens' rights in administrative proceedings, not only is the administrative procedure now applied, not only protects citizens' rights in the adoption of administrative acts, such as a solution to enrolment in a cadastre, but the procedure itself includes also actions and services, so that, for example, the installation of cables between two locations or heating in your apartment is also considered administrative action, i.e. administrative matters in which you are protected as a citizen in the process. Now the law doesn't matter if it's just a dead letter on paper. This law also introduces significant newspapers that strengthen legal certainty and predictability of the administrative procedure. Legal protection is introduced, i.e. The possibility that if the right is not, in fact, respected in practice, a citizen may complain, i.e. to make an objection and in the end the management must bear responsibility. Something that is very important in front of you, which I would like to stress, is that this law now clearly states that only an individual official is in charge of either the whole procedure or the parts of the procedure, responsible for his actions. So far, only the organs themselves, i.e. The executives of the organ, they were responsible. Which, in essence, even though it seems to be giving clear responsibility to the manager, is in fact divorcing responsibility. Because you can't, after all, hold that manager responsible for every letter, every seal and every decision the authority makes. Predictability is also significantly improved by this law and, as you know, legal certainty and predictability are of paramount importance for strengthening the country's business environment. Because today no one in the world will come to invest, and our own investors will not separate themselves from their assets if they cannot be sure under what conditions they will work and, I say, try to fertilize their investments. In this case, predictability is significantly strengthened not only by the clarity of the law and responsibility in it, but also by the right of the citizen to request that in his case be handled in the same way as in other cases. Therefore, public records are being introduced on the conduct of the body and, if a citizen, which can be, of course, an economic society, they consider that the otherwise acted have the right to seek an explanation, and if they are not satisfied with it again to initiate the procedure. The third newspaper or news set refers to a significant improvement in the efficiency and quality of work and services of the administration. I'd like to give you an example. At this point, the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government is leading along with the "Deliver Yunit" in the Serbian government one project, which you may have heard about in public, and we call it "Baby, welcome to the world" in which we expect that very soon we allow the mothers of hospitals to have at the same time through one procedure and before they leave the institution enroll the child in the birth books, to enroll in citizenship and receive a unique home number of citizens, to receive residence applications and get a health book. I have to say that this simple procedure, one logical simplification of citizens' procedures required incredible effort under today's conditions and the way the administration was arranged. Eleven institutions had to be brought in for one hundred and to discuss for the first time how and whether they could exchange and what information and how to act and cooperate with each other in a way that would actually exclude the citizen and his own efforts to resolve this process. Such stories will become a thing of the past when this law is fully implemented because it introduces a solution so-called. a single management post according to any procedure requiring the work of several authorities, and all those bodies must consider that each part of that procedure and their responsibility. The citizen will have to deal with only one of the authorities, and there is also an obligation that exists in today's General Administrative Procedure Act, but there was no sanction for his disrespect, which is an obligation to exchange official information, i.e. data from official records between authorities when it comes to the need for a citizen to do any work. So, if you're a citizen, for example. She wants to change her name after she got married and decided to change her name, instead of having to go to a large number of counters and addresses to change her identity with each of the authorities, from now on, three months after the entry into force of this law, it will be the obligation of the state and state authorities to obtain and exchange the necessary information and to do the job for the citizen. Now I'm going to start reading about each of these goals and newspapers separately. First of all, the concept of extending the protection of the rights and interests of citizens and businesses, first of all, is the concept of administrative matters. This law significantly extends and covers decision-making in individual situations relating to the adoption of not only administrative acts, as I said, solutions on the granting of material aid, for example, but also the taking of administrative actions, the provision of public services, the conclusion of administrative contracts and the adoption of guarantee acts. These last two are actually relative newspapers in administrative law in the international community. In this respect, citizens and businesses will be able to exercise rights and in particular the right to protection in the process itself and for new forms of treatment for which a new remedy is provided in addition to the appeal, which is an objection. Expansion of administrative matters to administrative actions and especially to the provision of services to citizens will mean that the state in a situation where the services are irregularly and unqualityly provided, such as the provision of heating, water or electricity, undertakes to provide them with a formal legal response to the consequences resulting from this. In fact, services and activities not only become part of the administrative procedure for which the new legal remedy is bound, which is the right to object, but at the same time the state undertakes to provide citizens with a formal decision on the complaint and later the right to appeal, i.e. legal judicial protection. Thus, the services, i.e. the actions in the existing system, were potentially the subject of complaints, become part of administrative protection, and citizens become state controllers as their service. The extension of the party's concept also gives the possibility to third parties whose rights or interests may be affected by the outcome of the procedure to recognise the party's property. According to the existing ones, they are only persons whose rights are being decided, as well as organisations and trade unions, and now the round is expanding to persons, as well as to organisations or groups, representatives of collective interests. It also strengthens the active position of citizens with legitimate legal interests to participate in the process. The law clearly recognises the right of persons with disabilities to participate in the process with the help of interpreters. In this way, the application of the provisions of the Law on the Use of Sign Language and the right of the Party to a free interpreter is fully ensured, as well as the right to equal treatment and equal protection. Also, for the sake of the exercise of law, I find it difficult to get used to, sorry, just a little bit, parties to a plea in order to strengthen the principle of legal certainty are imposed the obligation of the Authority to, when initiating proceedings under official duty, and this is not in the interest of the party to inform the same by delivering an act to initiate the procedure. In the future, for example. the tax administration shall, before it adopts a solution to the transfer of absolute rights after the purchase of immovable property, have to inform the party of the initiation of the procedure in order to give the party a chance to declare all the facts, and in particular those not found in the official records. This solution will enable the party to participate actively in the process and at the same time ensure the necessary accuracy in relation to the timing, i.e. the application of the relevant regulations. During a period of often changing regulations, this rule becomes additionally significant in relation to legal certainty for the party. I must stress here that this is also additional responsibility for the citizens of Serbia because from now on they will have to, the state will assume their presence at the address they gave as their place of residence or at least their place of residence and if they are not responsible they will not be able to enjoy the privilege this kind of principle gives them. In order to professionalise the administration, the Law provides for a major change in responsibility for the conduct of the administrative procedure. Instead of a solution so far to be responsible for the procedure, i.e. the head of the body as I have just said, the responsibility for management and decision-making shall be transferred to the authorised official in the administrative procedure. For example, many of the decisions that I now sign as a minister are far from the political responsibility that I have as a minister and represent primarily the expression of professional, based on the law of the ministry staff assessment. In this way, by deciding on administrative matters, they will return to where they belong, to the hands of professionals who have knowledge, experience and under these provisions of authority to bring them themselves but who really do. Only when the official face is not a specific solution will the organ manager bring. In this way, both the process and the principle of professionalisation in the administration is supported and the rule so far is substantially changed that the decision-making executive of the body is responsible. I move on to the question of legal certainty and improvement of the business environment. The General Administrative Procedure Act introduces the obligation to comply with specific laws on the principles of this law. In particular, certain issues of administrative procedure can only be regulated by special law if they are necessary in certain administrative areas. If this is in accordance with the basic principles laid down in this law and does not reduce the level of protection of the rights and legal interests of the parties covered by this law. This provision introduces us to perhaps the most significant process that follows after the adoption of this law, the review of a large number of laws that today, in the same or unnecessarily different way, regulate administrative action. The aim of this harmonisation is to abolish and reduce unnecessary special administrative procedures. The Government is scheduled to establish a coordination body within 90 days of the date of entry into force of the law, whose business task will be to assess the compliance of specific laws with the principles in the period from 1 June 2018. This represents a significant step towards deberocracy and state regulation. By harmonising specific rules with the principles of law and by introducing some of the principles of European administrative space, we increase the legal certainty of entities and at the same time make the procedure more effective by discharging citizens and the economy of unnecessary procedures and costs. The principle of legality is expanded in the principle of predictability, thus ensuring a uniform practice of the body and certainty for the party. This creates an obligation for the Authority to form a legal practice that can be deviated from in exceptional cases, with an additional reasoned decision. This would overcome the existing situation if different decisions on the same or similar legal issues came out of the same body. The position of the party is further improved by the introduction of so-called the principles of proportionality according to which the Authority will have to choose the most minor measure, i.e. the obligation for the party, provided that the purpose of the regulation is achieved. The principle of efficiency and the principle of economicity of the process shall also be introduced. With these principles, we release the party from the obligation to obtain information on which the authorities keep official records. That's what I've been talking about for a while. Citizens are relieved of the obligation to submit documents that are already owned by organs and thus saves and time and money. In order to ensure proper application, this principle has been elaborated in the provisions of the law, especially in those relating to criminal liability. There's been a lot of talk about this in the media. I would draw attention to the fact that, unlike other solutions that have not been implemented since 1 July 2017, the provisions on data exchange have started to apply for 90 days from the date of entry into force of this law. If it were possible to do so within such a short time, we are shown examples of the practices of some local self-government such as Gornji Milanovac, Leskovac and Sabac, which already apply these principles even though this is not how the law forced them to do so. In addition to the above principles, the promotion of the business environment is further stimulated by the introduction of new legal institutes such as the guarantee act and the administrative contract. By predicting these institutes, the law introduces the basics of unifying legal arrangements and ensuring the necessary protection of parties, i.e. contracting parties. However, the law will not produce direct consequences, but any specific administrative area will recognise the need and the extent to which these new institutes will further regulate. The effects of the application of new institutes, guarantee act and administrative contract depend on the necessary regulation in specific laws and the raising of quality and efficiency of conduct. The General Administrative Procedure Act will also contribute significantly to the quality and efficiency of administrative action. Large innovation is a legal institute for the provision of services in one place. As I mentioned earlier, a unique administrative place. The draft administrative procedure law lays down the basis for organising the provision of services in one place, which contributes to the rationalisation and concentration of the procedure, as well as a significant improvement in the position of the party in relations with the competent authorities. The effects of applying this institute are very favourable to the party for saving time and money, as well as for the organs because it leads to the improvement of the organisation and coordination of state bodies. That is to say, to the end of unnecessary procedures, which has great savings and better alocation of human resources. This provision sends a message to the citizens to meet and take over the work they have so far had to do, in order to achieve some of their rights or interests. The effect of the provisions on a single administrative place is evident in the case of those rights which require the operation of several different bodies, e.g. birthright or sick leave for the care of a child. When a single administrative place is established, this right would be achieved by applying one requirement and by coming to a single administrative place, while any communication and co-operation by the authorities of which the decision depends and the exercise in this case of the right of the maternity or parents to leave would take place on official duty. The expression of modernisation is also the introduction of electronic communication, while more detailed regulation of this area is left to specific laws. In fact, this law lays down the basis for the introduction of an electronic administration, i.e. the conduct of the authorities at all stages of the procedure by electronic means, provided that the party agrees. We hope that in a year and a half we will have full application of all other laws, starting with the Law on Electronic Administration, which will significantly speed up the process and save time and money for citizens. The efficiency of behaviour as one of the types of modernisation is achieved by a new concept of notification that enables the exchange of information in a flexible and modern way while maintaining the necessary formal visions of notification. The notification shall consist of a general concept containing both informal notification and the provision of short and urgent information, as well as information via mail or delivery as well as other types of notification. In fact, the law allows a procedure where it is possible and justified not to suffer because of unnecessary formalities, but at the same time for actions that will depend on a party's right to provide the necessary form and protection of parties in the process. In this place, I'd like to highlight another important paper when it comes to delivery. The procedure is significantly sharpened. As I mentioned earlier, if the delivery fails for the first time, the delivery will try to deliver again within 24 hours. If neither delivery is successful then, within 15 days, delivery will be deemed to have been made. At the same time, I point out that new provisions give the possibility that the recipient of the notice may give the authority and another address other than that of the apartment or workplace. This in some ways balances the state as a service of citizens and the responsibility of citizens for their own actions. However, it is certain that one of the biggest problems of administrative action is the so - called silence of the administration. Although at first it was thought of introducing a positive assumption of the silence of the administration, I must say, personally, that I was a great supporter of that solution. This concept has been given up primarily for reasons of legal uncertainty and the likelihood of opening a law on corruption with such a provision. We have established that legal solutions under which, in addition to the party's right to appeal to the second-degree body, unless there is a decision by the first-degree body within the time limit provided for by the law, and this law sets deadlines of 30 days or 60 days for making a first-degree decision, while special laws may also be prescribed for shorter or longer periods, we oblige the second-degree authority to impose a decision on the first-degree body within a later period of 30 days or 15 days. Unless, in this case, a first-degree body makes a solution, a second-degree body would have to decide the administrative matter on its own. That's why we cut off the circle of silence from the administration. At the same time, the new Administrative Procedure Act imposes an obligation on first-degree authorities to forward, in addition to the case file, a response to the complaint to the second-degree body and thereby provide insight into the necessary institutional, organisational or personal changes, or responsibilities for impunity. At the same time, in addition to disciplinary responsibility, we have introduced a criminal liability for authorised officials for non-compliance with these obligations, non-response of the response to the complaint to the second-degree authority and non-response of the file. Given that we have also prescribed the obligation to keep official records of the number of cases at each stage of the procedure, we consider that we have set a sufficient basis for seriously raising the efficiency of the procedure. Deregulation and deberocracy of the procedure. In order to comply with trends and standards in the EU and the region, the bill contains 217 members, as a result of recognising the need for the process to be more effective and deprived of bureaucratic burdens. The central question that was raised to us during the negotiations with the European Commission was – why are we regulating issues that are not of direct interest to the party, but are the subject of communication and co-operation between the bodies themselves? If we didn't have those provisions, this law would be much shorter. Although in principle compatible with this position and partially exempt from these provisions, the new law should, above all, be subject to additional amendments, namely that these members and these issues are resolved in those laws. In order to make the procedure more effective on the one hand, while on the other hand ensuring the legal protection of parties in the process, a new concept of solutions and conclusions is introduced. Namely, the solutions are all legal acts to which the party has the right to appeal, regardless of whether they are decided on a scale or in procedural matters. The conclusions are, in turn, administrative acts which are managed by the procedure are procedural and are only adopted when it is explicitly provided for by this law. The complaint cannot be made directly to the conclusion, but the complaint can be made indirectly through an appeal for a solution. Thus, it is ensured that the procedure does not stop every time the Authority makes a decision, while ensuring that, through the breakthrough of the solution, the resolutions are challenged and the decisions reached in the conclusion. The conclusion shall, as a rule, be drawn in oral form and in writing when requested or necessary by the party for the proper conduct of the procedure. In addition to the objectives and mechanisms mentioned above for the establishment of a public administration that is directed towards citizens and businesses, the General Administrative Procedure Act further improves and valid solutions. In this respect, given the observed inconsistencies and lack of transparency in the current ZUP, with regard to the system of emergency legal medicinal products, as well as the need for its simplification and redefination, specific cases of removal and modification of the solution are envisaged. We introduce, for example, the possibility of revoking a solution when the solution contains the wrong rule of law, or does not contain it at all. Although the parties, if resolved now, even though they contain the same provisions as in the current Administrative Procedure Act, if the solution contains the wrong, incomplete or does not contain a legal instrument at all, the new law provides the party with the possibility to request the final decision to be annulled within one year. Looking at the current capacity of the administration, as well as the numerous requirements set out in the text before you, it is planned to postpone application from the beginning of 1 July 2017, with the simultaneous obligation to harmonise specific laws by 1 July 2018. However, I will repeat that the provisions relating to the exchange of official record data will start to apply within 90 days of the date of entry into force of this law. To point out, this period will be used for serious investment, not only in changing the rules to comply with this law, but also in the training of officials, in order to be able to properly implement this law. The funds already allocated as part of the EU's sectoral budget support, which is expected to be provided, i.e. to be admitted somewhere in the autumn of this year. By then, as I have already mentioned, we are working to meet the conditions that for such a very complex 80m-euro aid in three years, the EU of course requires. The implementation of the General Administrative Procedure Act is not the only thing that, of course, this and so much resources will be invested, but it is very important that such funds are provided, because the process of preparation and the process of transformation of administration, so that this law can be implemented adequately, will be very complex and long-term, even when it takes effect. In conclusion, if I were to finally have to single out the two largest newspapers, i.e. the expected changes that will be made by this law, then I would say that it is the establishment of an obligation for the authorities, instead of seeing themselves individually, to see their jobs only from the edge of their jurisdiction, this law sets out the standard and requirement that they all represent one functionally connected continent – a country that serves the purpose, which is primarily to serve citizens, to ensure that the services and needs of citizens are achieved in the way that is most optimistic and efficient. At the same time, we also send a message to citizens that they will have to be active and demand the exercise of these rights, to expect the state and to demand that this and this law be implemented, and by their own letter, and by their own spirit, indeed. By doing so, everyone will take responsibility for their actions. I appeal, both to the citizens and to you MPs, to be active and to have expectations legitimate and legal from the administration, which, on the other hand, has a big job in front of it now – to transform itself. If you do not have these expectations, if you are not prepared to expect in a fair way and ask the state to do its job, it is difficult for civil servants and employees in other services throughout the public sector to be motivated to meet such complex requirements and meet them. No one learns for an "A" if they know they're just gonna get a "C." But in the end, let me thank you for your attention and express my expectation that, after the debate in principle and in particular, the proposed law will be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51347	Thank you. Do the committees want the word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (Yes) The word has the messenger of the people Elvira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51348	Thank you. Dear Vice President, the Presidency, Madam Ministers, Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, on behalf of the SVM Group, I will brief our view of the three proposed laws. I will start with the proposal for a bill on the public sector wage system. Certainly our parliamentary group welcomes the intention to establish a public sector pay system in a unique and transparent way for everyone. On the other hand, we welcome the establishment of a general catalogue of jobs, i.e. titles and positions and functions in the public sector in the form of lists and the objective of monitoring the jobs and jobs on which they are carried out. As we have heard in the opening statement of the Honorable Minister, payment classes are defined by these laws which express the value of jobs, i.e. calling and positions belonging to a particular pay group. What is extremely significant is that the defined criteria for the classification of jobs and positions in paying groups such as the complexity of these jobs, the competence of workers, autonomy in the work itself, business communication, and in particular in certain cases and risk conditions of work. Our parliamentary group welcomes the setting of criteria for the evaluation of jobs carried out at the appropriate workplace. The bill, as we have heard and as we have had the opportunity to see, predicts that all profits are calculated on the basis of the same elements, the same basics, the unique matrix of the range of coefficients, in order to achieve an extremely significant principle of equal pay for equal work for all. The range of coefficients will, as indicated, be defined by certain specific laws whose adoption still awaits us, after the adoption of this, if we can call it, the roof law. This bill defines exactly what the public sector covers, as well as what persons are considered public sector employees, and on the other hand it defines exceptions, i.e. those to which this law does not apply, such as employees of public enterprises, NBS, as well as employees of public media services, etc. The next law that lies ahead is the proposal for a law on general administrative procedure, which is really important from the point of view of citizens and businesses because it meets with administrative actions concerning the rights, obligations and legal interest of parties such as keeping records, issuing different beliefs, providing information, receiving statements and other actions. Very often, they meet with them from day to day, both citizens and businesses. What I would like to point out and what is really important to the citizens is that after we adopt this law, more precisely in 90 days from its adoption, a copy of the birth certificate was born, a belief of citizenship, and many other similar documents that are owned by the state, which the citizen now and now, had to obtain for the purpose of achieving certain rights, this law will gradually, meaning in a period of some three months go into history, finally. The bill stipulates that citizens will no longer have to obtain the documents mentioned on their own, but will have to provide them with just mentioned civil servants with insight into the electronic database. They will have to provide all information concerning citizens and are in official records themselves. The bill even provides for rigorous penalties for non-compliance with this provision. I would like to mention several principles of administrative procedure with the new content contained in this bill, such as the principle of predictability, which complements the principle of legality, and whose essence is that by acting under the laws of other regulations, general acts, the body must take into account, in fact, previous decisions made in the same or similar administrative matters when acting in a administrative matter. Furthermore, the principle of predictability means that one decision should not be relied on, but on the uniform legal practice of a particular body on a particular issue, which is extremely significant. As I have already mentioned, what really concerns all of us and citizens is defined here as the principle of efficiency, economics, it actually releases parties from the obligation to obtain information on which official records are kept, means they are run by public authorities. The paper is that a criminal liability is provided for by this Proposal for a Law on a Authorised Person in an Authority which requires the party to supply that information. The draft general administrative procedure law introduces a legal basis for formal and informal electronic communication, which is also important in line with the modernisation between authorities and parties, including in fact newspapers such as electronic delivery. Electronic communication shall occur with the consent of the party and when the regulation is laid down. And what the Honorable Madam Minister mentioned in the opening statement of the so-called so-called Minister. The single administrative place is big news. It would mean a united provision of services in one place. The aim of this proposal is, in fact, to allow the party itself to receive, in one place, all relevant formations or to submit one of the requirements of importance, instead of addressing a number of authorities or conducting several procedures with the same authority in order to recognise a certain right. Indeed, it is a good example that you set during the birth of a child who has so far involved really more procedures in the application of a personal name, citizenship, the application of residence, health insurance and so on, which was really a big problem, because it could not have been done as you mentioned in the maternity ward itself, but young parents had to go together both to the mother and to sign together, to choose the child's name and to register it for the book or so on. All in all, the new law, i.e. the draft law on general administrative procedure and after its application that has been delayed, should indeed lead to a modern European administration and indeed serve citizens and businesses, and we hope that in the near future it will look in practice. What I would like to briefly mention is that our SVM parliamentary group has submitted to this bill an amendment which we have discussed and we believe is acceptable. It refers to the official use of the language and letters of the national minority. Therefore, in areas where, in the official use and language of the national minority, the procedure is conducted in the language and using the letter and the national minority in accordance with the law. This is actually the alignment of this law with the applicable Law on Official Use of Language and Letters, and I hope that in two days' debate in particular and when we get the Government's opinion, we will get a positive answer that this amendment is accepted. The government is the third draft law we are discussing today are amendments and additions to the Law on Territorial Organization, which, in fact, by adopting it, would make Kikinda, Vršac and Pirot cities, which is acceptable and that our parliamentary group will support. We heard in the opening statement of a distinguished fellow MP, who suggested these initiatives that it actually dates back to perhaps 2007 when the Law on Territorial Organization was adopted, which then defined 23 territorial units as cities and the city of Belgrade as special. Here we are the most, the most talked about Kickinda so far, and I would also mention Kickinda and Vrsac, of course, and Piroth, since all these border municipalities are in the very explanation it says that this is necessary precisely because of the attraction of investors. But there are a number of arguments, for example, why Kikinda as the largest northern Banatian municipality should become a city. From the fact that Kikinda is an economic, educational, administrative, cultural, sports center of the northern Banat region through the very rich cultural historical tradition of this municipality, we hope in the future of the city. And cities have previously been included and environments with far fewer inhabitants than mentioned, so, Kickinda, Vrsca and Pirota. This should certainly contribute to the economic development of these units of local self-government and to the full use of their economic, human and natural capacities. In particular, for their residents, it would mean a range of benefits such as institutional reorganisation in health care, police, city administration, municipal police and other spheres of life, which should significantly facilitate both administrative procedures and local environment, make local administration and environment more efficient. For the very end of my presentation, I'd like to commend that after so many years, so this Law on Territorial Organization was passed in 2007, it hasn't changed since then. What is now changing is a very rare opportunity for it to be an initiative of the MP rather than a proposal coming from the government. I would like to remind myself of the SVM initiative, namely our amendment that we submitted in 2007 when we discussed this law, which refers to a new populated place in Zrenjanin, called Mužlje. In fact, the current situation is that the inhabited place of Mužlja as such officially does not exist under that law. It is, in a formal sense, one of the suburban parts of Zrenjanin. However, essential Mužlja represents an independent populated place with currently about 8,000 inhabitants has concrete limits, makes one geographical continent with clearly established borders at the beginning and end, and we believe that there is no obstacle to any future changes and additions to the Law on Territorial Organization, indeed Mužlja is established, as a particularly populated place. At the moment, there was no technical opportunity to submit this amendment, but I hope that in the future we will succeed in adopting it and doing it. In the day to vote, MPs and SVM parliamentary groups will support three draft laws on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51349	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51350	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will talk about the amendment and addition of the Law on the Territorial Organisation of the Republic of Serbia. I am so glad that we have just heard the explanation of our colleague, Dr Branislav Blažić, about what are the advantages and what will be the municipalities, which receive the status of cities. I absolutely agree with both the explanation and the need to do so, and it has been very nice and explained, his proposal is supported by the government and by Prime Minister Vukic himself, so I am now asking one question, I guess we will also get answers, could the same thing have been possible for municipalities that have absolutely, not the same needs, but are meeting far more of these criteria that have been outlined in the light of this bill. After all, the prime minister also received a thank-you from the president of Presevo Municipality, so he should probably have an additional motive where he was, for both Presevo and Bujanovac to be included in the order of these municipalities that are growing to the level of cities and that will have all these possibilities listed in the explanation, economic, demographic, geographical reasons. These municipalities are 10, very important, borderline, moving towards Macedonia and we are always current, whenever there is a crisis situation, because here I mentioned those in the 1990s, during the international embargo, when it was passing through these municipalities, and the main optics were both oil derivatives and cigarettes, and of which the state existed, through these illegal activities, but it was supported and stimulated by the state authorities at the time, and now we are very active, with the existing migrant crisis. Now the question is, why in some normal conditions does not the state remember that these areas, too, advance these municipalities at that level in order to be, as explained in the explanation – higher investment, more opportunities for development, and of course, taking into account these other negative phenomena, such as emigration, the outflow of young people leaving. Ms. Deputy Prime Minister is best acquainted and knows why the assessment of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja was also taken into account last year, as it said, it could not have taken into account the regular evaluation of the Statistical Office 12.13, after the boycott of the population, 11 years, where the number of residents in these municipalities has fallen, and whether it is true, this is already a special issue. In my view, the methods that were applied at that time, even though it was from international experts, I had my reserves, but they don't matter at all. It's important to me, too, and I asked the government himself, did the government seriously consider this occasion, which is why there was this sudden reduction of population in these three municipalities, more than 10,000 and that in three years from 10 to 13. A reduction that is larger than 10,000, such an estimate, which is now official, has shown and the question is whether this issue has ever been considered in the government and why has the sudden departure of the population from the area? It's not small, it's 17% of the population in three years and in that, not counting the natural growth in that area. So it's not 10,000 if you take natural growth, it's probably about 14,000 less. It's very nice and then through these methods that I support, but for which the government always doesn't remember, it doesn't remember in time to take a step, and we mostly know what answers we get. This area has a coordinating body and this coordination body solves all the problems there, and we actually have only one president who makes political statements, which does not deal with the specific problems of the area, nor does the coordination body deal with the catastrophic privatisation, where all of them, and such small natural capacity for the bogeyman, are sold, the workers expelled, and here I have been often bored with the question of what will be done by the government to prevent or repair it in any later period, but for the time being, there has been no interest. In that plan, as you can see, there was no interest in a number of other life problems, both in education and in all other areas. Only when you have some other situation, then you come to see how the palitative measures work out, some kind of situation needs to be solved. The logic that even 16 years ago, when there was a crisis situation, when it was shot in that area and when there was greater interest and by the government to solve problems then and it was a co-ordination body, and since I've been here, it was more than eight years, the climate was created as if these municipalities were privileged, which is absolutely not true. These municipalities were, in fact, the most difficult situation in its history through the coordination body. Look at all the data on the level of state and human rights and the state of these municipalities that you had before, and courts and prosecutors who no longer have a string, Presevo had four banks, now only one. This shows the level and economic situation in the area, after 16 years of co-ordination. We have situations that are often arbitraryly made statements about this state of affairs in the area, to repeat, to create actually the stories of Podkin, General Podkin, in his own time, was to make an impression of prosperity in that part where he was in charge, and when Empress Katarina came, he looked at it and got that impression. We have again a general who takes care of our situation there and that we have a catastrophic situation, and only for the sake of the international delegations to come, to create an illusion that honey and milk are flowing there, and the situation is that when we need such a contribution, seriously, I support this, I really need all these municipalities that have the number of inhabitants, because Presevo and Bujanovac have an approximate number of inhabitants, as well as Vrsac, as well as Kikinda. Why can for Kikinda, for Piroth, for Vršac and not for Presevo and Bujanovac, when they are even better able to meet all the criteria set out in the explanation? When we had the position of the coordination body in the budget for this year, these were said to be strategically important municipalities. So if these municipalities are strategically important, let's let the people do the same thing, and there's no such thing in practice, so people are leaving. There are very few young people left because they have no chance of ever hiring. They don't have any employment prospects, and then they have to leave. Again, I ask the question – three years ago we submitted a seven-point government programme to the seven-point government, it was very loudly supported, but in practice so far almost nothing, outside of the hospital maternity center, the Faculty of Bujanovac, the university building, and until then we have the prime minister to go to Vlasotince and Leskovac and open the capacities in Vlasotinc from about 200-300 workers, and in Leskovac much more, as if there were only some representative ones there, let's like what was the former head of the co-ordination body, brings the director from Belgrade to create a theatre piece, where three Albanian students participated, three Serbian, two Roma and once shown in Bujanovac, neither in Presevo, nor in Bujanovac, and then the play in Belgrade was three-four times shown, in Subotica, in Ljubljana, and I don't know where outside. It's the logic of these Podokin villages, to make only an illusion of something being done, and the essential situation is getting worse and worse. So once again in the end, I support a proposal for these municipalities, the explanation is excellent, but let's apply it under unique criteria in all similar situations, not to be selective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51351	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51352	Thank you, Vice-President, Your Honor, this law is one of those laws that we have been waiting for and expecting, according to the Prime Minister, in the first 100 days of the government's term, has been announced. It took only seven times more time to finally get this law and discuss it in a completely non-democracy atmosphere. I'm sorry that your work, I assume you've worked most of this past two years on this law, I mean first of all the Public Sector Payments System Act, you're discussing today at a time when the Assembly shouldn't work, at a time when there's no transfer on public media service, when citizens can't hear what and how the government sees, how it sees the fate of public sector employees. You obviously had a great need to explain the solutions to us, and that's normal, for an hour and a half, we've been listening to the opening word of you and your colleague who explained the third law we're discussing today. But unfortunately, this debate cannot be said to be democratic, democracy and debate in parliament for us MPs, citizens' representatives to meet, or discuss some laws. You, as you know, have adopted the Public Sector Payments System Act yesterday at the Government and sent it to us today, or sent it to discuss it today. You said there was a public debate, you listed who was involved, but there were representatives of unions, experts, but there are no citizens anywhere. They need to hear from their MPs here in parliament, our MPs, to say something about the bill's proposals. In this way, with this debate, it is not possible and it is a great deficit of this law and it will certainly record its application in the future. That's not what you should have agreed to. You had to ask for more time before this law went into debate in parliament, just you, in order not to challenge your work, because it is inevitable that this law will happen as it enters into force. In particular, it is illogical that we are discussing in this way a bill on salaries to be applied from 1 January 2017 in one part, and until the end in the whole of our work only from 1 January 2018, where this law provides for the re-administering of numerous, which sublegal acts, which other laws, something called catalogue, is completely inappropriate to our legal system. The catalogue is used in, I don't know, retail, trade, in laws until now we haven't had a chance to hear about catalogs. The General Administrative Procedure Act also, a little longer, was here in parliament, its basis for implementation should be good, efficient, motivated public administration. If this Bill on the Payments System is adopted, I fear that we will not achieve that precondition and that all the good solutions that the Administrative Procedure Act carries will not be realised in practice as you have spoken here in your opening statement, and yet this law and it lacks a democratic deficit, because you have said that you have consulted on this law and on the Law on Salaries, as regards Parliament, you have stated that with two meetings with an economic cocussus parliament is familiar with during the drafting of the Payments Act. I must say that this economic cocus is no official body of Parliament. In it are MPs of almost all parliamentary groups, but it is still not a way to meet parliament and MPs with some law, and it cannot replace that conversation you had there, it cannot replace public hearings, discussions on committees and other things that are now missing. What is a big issue for the public, which is now excluded, perhaps one of the citizens will catch us after midnight, this debate, is and is this law respected what was agreed at the last meeting of February 3rd, it seems to me, between the unions of employers and government representatives in all those parts that were at the time at the debate? When that meeting was over, it was said that something had been arranged. As far as I've been able to make some consultations in this short time, it's not all respected. We will see in the coming days that this law, which should treat fate over half a million people, will have what reactions it will have in public. Now, let's take the turn. A few grudges we managed to, let's say, notice for this short time, this system law, the first blame is the very title of the law -- the Law on the public sector wage system. By reading this law, I haven't been able to see any of the systems. It's 40 members, some members, I don't remember whether we've passed laws with longer members than it is a member of the 14th Law. He's written on seven pages. We had laws that stood on one side, and here we have one member of the law that has seven sides of the text. He who manages to do it, it's an honor. Then the next member, say the law, 15th one table that can't be read at all and is completely unclear. The main objection is that from this system, and you failed to convince us why public enterprises, the National Bank of Serbia and the Public Media Service were necessary. The fact is, that's exactly the biggest difference between employees' salaries doing the same job. The secretary in the state administration or in schools, hospitals and secretaries in public enterprises, the pay gap is five, six times. Sometimes these secretaries or cleaning women in public enterprises are paid better than school principals or doctors. This law will not correct that injustice. You put that problem aside. For two years, you have personally been in office and failed to resolve this and now at the end of your term. I sincerely hope and expect this to be the end, because after the election, I am sure that citizens will not give confidence to a government that treats their problems in this way. What this law adopts is the narrowing of the acquired rights of employees, related to sickness, vacation, regression, a warm meal. In the previous law, for example, in terms of sickness, it was said that compensation during a period of time could be at least 65%. In some cases, collective trade unions and employees have fought to make it more. Now that possibility is off. There's no saying-- at least, it means 65%, not up or down. Regres and a warm meal are in the draft law, but with a limit, the restriction that on the socio-economic council or however, heights will be considered, so if the condition is obtained in the budget, then it will determine what is the amount of regression and a warm meal. There are also talk of diaries, famous diaries, which are completely unargumented overnight, reduced ten times. He's got article 32, I think, talking about journals, right on the diary. But how big is she? Is a 150 dinar daily in the country or 15 euros for an official trip abroad a real and worthy man to do some state work? I don't think so. Was there an abuse? Yes, but it was necessary to combat abuses, not in this way to reduce rights, thereby further demoting public sector employees. This law, according to us, hides a reduction in wages. You have managed several times in your presentation to say that by calculating, harmonising the basics will determine how much this difference is, to see which all the coefficients are in circulation, but you haven't said what will happen after that, and there will be a reduction in salary, certainly not an increase, because what happens here is repeated through this law and you've said it, and that's that famous budget and savings and let it talk as if the budget is more important than life. Serbian citizens do not live because of the budget, so that the budget is positive, or I don't know how the prime minister likes to say it, but to be able to feed their family, to be treated, to be trained, to be satisfied with sometimes going to the theatre, cinema, to live a decent man's life, and this law will not provide, on the contrary, cost employees in the public sector further wage cuts. What will end up being the result of this law? We will have instead of an efficient and well-motivated administration, we will have underpaid employees, unmotivated to work, this objective of the service of citizens who need to be easier and better quality to exercise their rights will not be achieved. Those rights will continue to be an empty letter on paper, which cannot be realized and there will always be some explanation, something to be found in some law. I say, this law is not a system, because it cannot be a system of laws that predicts the adoption of dozens of new laws. In almost every article you speak – some other law or sublegal document will resolve this or that question. There's no system. What you said here and said that this should achieve efficiency, transparency, justice, that it's a reform of the system, we don't see that the end result will be that. We think a number of problems of this kind of passed law will soon be shown. What happens, say, with the salaries of judges and prosecutors when you apply one basis for a salary account? You are saying that special laws will specifically define the conditions for the evaluation of work and the criteria for the evaluation of work. Well, why did it take you two years? Why wasn't it part of this law or some other law we're adopting together? This is just one promise, now before the elections probably, which is why we're bringing this law back-to-night, just so it can be said that something has been done, and no substantial progress has been made. The Administrative Procedure Act has 217 members and has been applied since 1 June 2017, with the exception of three members, and we think that there is also a 90-day deadline that you have given too long, a 90-day deadline for the state authority to obtain, under official duty, certain documents instead of citizens. We don't know why we had to wait 90 more days. Probably to delay the start of application after the election. Finally, a few sentences would say about the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Territorial Organisation of Serbia. Personally, I don't mind suggesting that Vrsac, Kikinda and Piroth get the status of the city, but I ask the question – why is this not the case with Shida, Bora, Negotina, Prepolje? These are also large municipalities located at the border, if some criterion was to help border larger municipalities, the district centres by obtaining the status of the city, then the question is – why are these cities, or these municipalities not included in this proposal? There are some amendments, we'll see what their fate is. Or Prokuplje, or Paracino, district centers, large municipalities that develop well like this, or Paracino, but then why don't you help them and give them the status of the city? The problem with this proposal is that, as we heard from the promoter who originally came up with the idea to help his city of Kickindu, and then the prime minister of good heart told him – let's expand it a little bit. Is it necessary to change the law, so that we change these criteria, which speak about which municipalities, or how cities are formed, which are the conditions for forming cities, so to say the condition is also if the Prime Minister is favored to do so? There is no objective criterion now, so let's say: yes, these cities should, and these municipalities should become cities tomorrow, and others should not. So, completely leaving the prime minister at will to do and arrange even this thing, in addition to everything he does, every day, for the citizens of Serbia. For all these reasons, we simply cannot support these laws. They're not good laws passed overnight here in the Assembly. We've been able to see for many times in all these years, not just the last four, but the previous ones. Working overnight, breaking in haste, is not good and can't be justified by anything, and especially by any haste to finish some jobs that have been promised before the election, and I remind you that the Law on Salaries, pay classes has been promised in the first 100 days, as well as the Law on Public Enterprises adopted three days ago. Instead of 100, it took 700 days and, in the end, the job wasn't done. Except that the law is called the system law, the bottom line is, when you read the law, that the system doesn't have, that there are new laws that have to be passed and that this jungle, I totally agree, in which the pay system in the public sector today won't be any less when this system, as you call it, tries to build and establish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51353	The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51354	Thank you, Your Honor. Respected Deputy Prime Ministers with the team, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I have listened carefully to the previous speaker, and I can say that his entire speech has passed in that he has made a lot of criticism, when it comes to a proposal for a whole set of these laws, but I have not heard any concrete proposal to improve any draft law, not a single constructive statement, nor a constructive suggestion of whether such legal solutions, or their proposal, can be improved. Obviously, it is not enough that this set of legislative proposals has gone through a complete democratic procedure, public hearing, has gone through a very intense social dialogue, which is most important to us, as representatives of the SDPS, with the social partners, with representatives of trade union organisations, with employers and, of course, with representatives of five ministries that participate in this social dialogue when it comes to the work of the Social-Economic Council, bodies that are entitled, in any case, under the law, to give an opinion on any law whose effects are such that they can affect the socio-economic situation in the country. It's not enough that there's been a dialogue with NGOs. It is not enough that the dialogue was conducted with the MPs. In the same economic cocus, Boris Tadic was represented mostly after the SNS. So, two MPs, Boris Tadic, participates in the work of the Economic Coconut. This is the part of people who are representatives of all political parties and thank you for that and thank you for your commitment and for your team that has always been numerous, who has always had time to answer every question, every proposal to come up with the best possible legal solution and suggestions that we talk about today. What is the essence of these legal proposals, I will focus here on the Law on the public sector wage system, primarily on establishing clear rules of the game, when it comes to the pay system. A system that had more than 900 coefficients has been abolished. One situation that did not allow good governance, good management and what we want, in any case, to achieve the implementation of this law, which is a cheap, small number, efficient and effective state administration and administration. It is an ideal and it is actually what is imperative when it comes to the proposal of this legal solution, which is that public administration, the state administration, be good and quality service primarily to citizens, and then business. I must remind fellow Members of the People's Parliament that this is just a continuation of the adoption of a whole series of reform laws concerning the implementation of state administration reforms. I will remind the Law on the establishment of the maximum number of public sector employees, the strategically important reform law on inspection control, and this law and its implementation was a waterworks that defined finally and which changed what existed in our country for 25 years, which is the attitude of state administration, civil servants, officials, economic inspection. It's the Inspectorate Control Act that changed that orientation towards those who are full of budgets, who pay taxes, who employ people and who are definitely the pillar of our country's development. Since 2000, until you reach the post of Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for State Administration and Local Self-Government, we have witnessed that several times the reforms of the state administration and public sector reform have been launched. Action plans, strategies have been made, but unfortunately no one has done anything concrete, no one has implemented anything in particular, so that, in any case, it has cost us a lot and, most importantly, all this time we have a very inefficient state administration that has to develop parallelly with the private sector and that it has a decisive impact on the business environment in our country. If we want to become a modern country, we need to have a modern state administration, a state administration in which they work the most educated, which are the most qualified, which are selected in these positions in accordance with good practice and human resources management system, where there will be a clear system that this law is just prescribing, which is a system of work analysis, job design, employee planning, clear recruitment and selection system, labour performance assessments, which is particularly apostrophesive, and what is very important, the implications of the e-government, i.e. the human resources information system in the state administration, i.e. in the state institutions that deal with this law. Because if you don't have a clear and defined database, if you don't have an information system that supports the monitoring of each employee, its progress, its development, its improvement system, the contribution of the institution in which it works, you can't even have a valid and fair system of impact assessments of that employee, so that at the end of the day you can't define, you can't create a system that will motivate employees to work better, to work better, and to make a greater contribution to institutions and organisations within the state administration where it works. What is very important to us is a repeated conversation between your ministry and your team with union representatives and employers. And what is a notorious fact is that for this bill there is a positive opinion of the Social Economic Council. And it is very important that there is support for the civil sector, NGOs, there is support for citizens, there is support for key social factors, such as the representatives of employees and representatives of those who hire, but of course the state, which participates in the work of the Social Economic Council in full capacity, because this same Social Economic Council, unlike some previous years, comes the finance minister, you also as the Deputy Prime Minister, comes the Minister of Education, comes the Minister of Resor, Work, Employment and Social Policy, the complete team of the Government, comes. Why? Well, because social dialogue is important, because it is important that such legal proposals are agreed with the social partners and that they get support and that someone can now say there is no support for the Social Economic Council and social partners. I can only figure that out, since, of course, we're going to meet the election campaign as pre-election marketing. And you don't need colleagues to be nervous, I'm just calling to speak the language of facts and the language of arguments. I think the arguments on the side of the ministry are on the side of the ruling majority who supports this bill and I hope that we will vote this law in the voting day, but I sincerely hoped that if there is a consensus between the social partners and the state at this job that we will be able to make a consensus with the political parties belonging to the minority, or the opposition, but unfortunately, we will obviously not succeed and if we have enough time to convince our colleagues that the law is good, that the law lays down the same rules for all, that the law abolishs what we had not before 15, but the previous 30, 40 years. It abolishes egalitarianism, abolishes Uranolovka and defines a system in which people will be paid according to their effect, in accordance with their level of skills, education, skills and knowledge. So, one system is introduced that is similar to a system that exists in the private sector and in the market economy, which means exclusively the result. The objectives are somewhat different because the private sector by nature is things oriented towards profit and profitability. The public administration, i.e. the state administration, is oriented towards good and quality service for citizens and businesses, but the system of staff management in the state administration should not bounce and should not be different than that of the system that includes the private sector. Therefore, full implementation of this law is very important, because it will not be able to have the good effects and the effects that we all want, which is that we have an effective, effective state administration if we do not carry out activities, i.e. the phase of human resources management in the state administration in the right way and in full capacity. This means that we have clearly defined systems and methods in the recruitment process, in the selection process, and that these parameters on the conto which the selection of people employed in the state administration is done are the highest possible criteria. But also these paying classes and paying groups that you have defined clearly show that the intensity of this bill is such that those who are employed by the state administration or those who work, who create more additional value, can earn more. And even more so, I've analyzed in detail that table that defines pay groups and paying classes, it's top-notch and professionally done. It defines that those people, those employees who belong to a lower pay group, can earn more than those who are on the payroll above them, if they have more extra hours of overtime, if they produce better results, if they are further improved and if they make a greater contribution to the organisation, to the institution in which they work. So, the early-onset, the radio-navigation system is being hacked, the radio system is playing for me, and that's the basic concept, and that's the main result that you're actually giving through the bill, and that's going to contribute to the state administration being more productive, because we all know that some of the analyses have shown that it's an average employee, that the productivity of the state administration is about 30%. What it means is that from eight hours of working hours, two and a half to three are working effectively now. There is no such thing in the private sector. I fully support the fact that a whole new system will be introduced that will define, which will appreciate the competence of the employee, who will appreciate his contribution through overtime, through the desire to advance, through the desire to perfect, and that it will be the only principles and parameters that will define who will work in the state administration and, of course, what is most important who will progress in the state administration system. What is equally important for SDPS is a fair system of profits that has been made. It's the relationship between the lowest and the highest profit scale. He has so far defined a 1:9, which was quite high under the old law. It is now 1:7.5 because, in any case, we must make sure that we do not create as civil servants, as people who talk, who vote the laws in the legislative body, or in parliament, to make sure that we do not allow ourselves, not to contribute to the greater duplication of citizens and that the profits of the highest executives are not justological, as is the case in some Western countries, but to those that are minimal. So, earning people who have the lowest qualifications. So this bill also has this social component, it takes care of one high level of equality, but those who work most, who make the biggest contribution to their institution, the organisation, can also make more money, can also expect to make progress in the public sector. What I would very much support is that in all institutions and organisations operating under the auspices of the state administration and administration, an information system is introduced, this so-called "chris" or "human critics of the information system" which in any case defines and which will in many ways help institutions and organisations to define which people, who will be able to make progress, which are best and of course, to evaluate them in the best way possible. Those who cannot withstand the race, those who cannot be effective, of course, will have to be reminded of it and will have to define a clear criteria of average, or minimum what it is that an employee has to do in the state administration in order to even gain the conditions to work, so that he can even earn his salary and gain the conditions to make progress in that future period. What I would point out at the end is the debate that took place over the past few months on whether the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government should also define a system of wages in public enterprises. Of course not. I know you've worked very hard to explain why it shouldn't be like that. A few days ago, to remind you, we have passed the Law on Public Enterprises and we are going towards corporateing public enterprises, to introduce a clear and transparent system of corporate governance, a system that will be defined in one way, where the evaluation of management, supervisory boards, so the supervisory authority, will be in line with the parameters of their results, their business plans that they give at the end of each year for the following year. Also, according to this, with one clear, greater control of the government, it will be evaluated and I think that this will make these companies more successful. But in any case, we are not in a position to derail the pay system, or anything when it comes to the work of the company, or corporate sector, in any way, and that any ministry prescribes rules of play that have nothing to do with the market. The government's task, the ministry's task, is to control that these public enterprises meet those objectives defined, that these public enterprises behave in line with market logic and that their primary and main objective is profit, but of course, and which is very important, public interest. But they must behave in accordance with market conditions, prescribe conditions of profit, the entire system of functioning and organisation of enterprises, the way they want it, but with one obligation – to have transparent work and to achieve high results. So, with a certain level of investment, they make high incomes and high results. We've never had that before. Unfortunately, we have few public companies that make profits, but I think that by implementing this new Law on Public Enterprises, we will be able to restructure, or reorganize other public enterprises, and that, of course, it will behave marketly, with a good and quality level of work of professional management, supervisory boards, whose members have to be certified, in order to control in the best possible way. In this way we can arrange both the public sector and the public business sector. In addition to adding that for some public enterprises and how we should look for strategic partners, we should also make public-private partnerships, which is very important, in order to come up with new technologies, to adopt new knowledge from our partners from all the developed and modern countries in the world with which we have very good and quality relations, which want to invest in our country. Let me remind you, we have also adopted this Law on Public-private Partnership that will enable this and allow new jobs, new business arrangements and, of course, the use of the potential of our businesses and potentials when it comes to particularly infrastructure for new employment and development.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51355	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51356	And to finish, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia in the voting day will support these bill's proposals in a warm way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51357	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr. Korri Udovicki. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Replica. ) On what basis? (Marko Djurisic, from the post: He spoke of MPs Boris Tadic. Here, you have the right to a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51358	Thank you, Chairman. I want to answer a few things. First of all, no economic cocus, as I said, can be a substitute for the work of parliament, to discuss the law at committee meetings, to discuss here in the tide under normal circumstances, not at night, not without public presence. So, how many members of the Parliament's group are in the Economic Cocus and whether they have been active or not, it can't be in any way a substitute for these things and the way the laws are discussed and passed in Parliament. As far as concrete proposals are concerned, our parliamentary group has 25 of them on this bill. I didn't want to talk about them today, we'll talk about it the day we discuss it in detail. As for this story about how this law is going to fix something and settle it, I would really like to see what the criteria in this law that will reward the work, which will break down the cookbook and all the bad things that exist in the public administration. That in this law, I repeat, there is no. He intends to settle it with some other law. And when will this law come on the agenda? We can see in the transitional and final provisions, but I am sure that this government will not do so, because in the next two months this government will no longer rule Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51359	I ask fellow Members of Parliament not to... The word has a minister, Dr. Korri Udovicki. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51360	I would like to address the MPs, and perhaps especially the MPs of the opposition, noting that there are two system laws in front of you that this country has been indisputably waiting for many years. It is indisputable that what the solutions in these laws are necessary to bring the state into order and to get the kind of modern administration and state that we need to be an effective European country. Now, it is your choice to now send messages that can seem simply confusing or populist in this discussion, in the sense that in one sentence you say that this will surely bring a reduction of wages, and in another next sentence that it is just a promise before the elections. Well, I don't know what we're doing now, do we promise before the election or do we cut wages? Or, to deal with the content, for which I have not said at any time that it will bring about a better tomorrow, not in these two months how long will this government be in its full or technical term, nor will the day after tomorrow, the first day, or the fifth day of the next government? But if Serbia wants to have a better state, then it is necessary for its MPs to read carefully what is in these laws, and then help their citizens, and MPs, and NGOs, and political parties, and professional bodies, to monitor and monitor whether the criteria are met and, I say, the objectives and targets set in these laws are realised. Is the next government, whoever it is, whether there are the same parties or other parties, you or some third party, will that next government and she follow it to implement the intentions, steps, criteria that these laws set? If someone wants to break these laws, they can ask why not faster, or if something is real, or what are the conditions to make some of the things set out in these laws come true? But anyway, I think it's going to be very difficult for someone to settle with fundamental principles and a serious job that's been put into these two laws. Also, I accept the fact that the Pay Law makes less concrete solutions. It is not comparable at all in terms of some final solution to the General Administrative Procedure Act. Why did it take us this long to get to him? Because even as many common containers as this law requires daily dialogue and fighting with representatives, persuasion, clarification, reconciliation and coordination of representatives, all 500,000 employees covered by this law. Today on the Ministry site, we have almost finished catalogs of jobs, which you're actually only making fun of because of the name, and you didn't get into what that catalogue represents, which work was done day and night. If only someone had written it once, it would have been a huge job, and in fact every job description in that catalogue today is the result of an exhaustive dialogue with people who do these jobs and who think that each one of their jobs is unique, that it is the most important and that the greatest injustice in the wages in this country is done just below. Do you know what it's like to bring 500,000 people around the table to just agree on what typical jobs are in their workplace, or in their titles, to just agree that it will be publicly presented, that it will also stand one day in which pay group includes their jobs. I'm not saying someone needs to feel better about what we've done, but I'm saying that someone has to notice now, to make sure in the future that the next government keeps up with the steps that have been taken here and that no previous government has ever come. I'm ready here, we have five hours to discuss, we have as many hours as you want after that, to explain every word and every sentence and every step in this law and both laws have already been taken. Also, please do not replace the thesis, if it is true that the Law of Salaries entered the Assembly 24 hours ago, and there was a version that stood on the site and was very transparent and explained again for months, this version differs in the very two members that you mentioned to confuse you. You could have mastered those two members in 24 hours. When it comes to the Law on General Administrative Procedure, the law in the Parliament since 5 February is also discussed in detail with all possible negotiators, was published, was agreed for a year. So more than this, this country that needs to change a large number of major laws, systems, solutions, etc. To turn into what we want, he really can't invest and it's not real. Let's talk about the content and let's set up by adopting these laws and discussions in this Assembly, the foundations on which the citizens of this country will be able to require their country in the coming period to be what this country needs to be. Thank you. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51361	Easy, sir. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, are you looking for a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51362	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure of Articles 107 and 108. - a violation of Parliament's dignity. Mr. Chairman, you have injured the Rules of Procedure for not warning the Minister that he cannot speak in an offensive way to the MPs. Whether we had time or not to have time to study the text of the law, it would be better if there were more self-critical tones, in view of the fact that MPs had to get to know the law in a very short time. It is not for the minister to give lectures to the MPs, nor to give them grades on their work. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51363	Take it easy, buddy. Slowly, we'll come to your replica. I don't think the Rules of Procedure have been broken in any of their terms. I agree that MPs should have a little more freedom when speaking to the minister, because they are MPs, but you cannot expect the minister to have a certain amount of right to respond to similar discussions of MPs. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day? Yeah, okay. Mr. Djurisic, you're looking for a replica, aren't you? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51364	Dear President, Madam Minister, I admit that I am not a superman and capacity, as perhaps the Prime Minister or you, members of the Government, in this short time, as far as I could read these laws, let's say, it's an interesting 11th paying group, to see if I've got it right or not. It says – jobs are classified, especially with the following requirements, jobs involve a high level of expertise, significant practical experience in solving very complex tasks, solving problems without enough information, innovation in work and creative thinking that contributes to high improvements in work. I think this session, it can now qualify all of us here for this 11th payroll group, because we're solving problems here without enough information, because we got this bill 24 hours ago and you're expecting us now and you're criticizing us whether our discussions are good or not, whether we're informed enough or not. I was just talking about the fact that this law has been delivered in a short period of time, makes it impossible for a quality debate and the role of parliament to play. We are not here to sit with you for hours, as you have said, that you are explaining to us, but we need to get to know this law in the minimum 15 days of procedures prescribed by the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, so that we can make good decisions on behalf of the citizens. So, professional debates, public debates, public hearings, meetings with Cokus cannot replace the role of parliamentary debate. And you have to understand that. You and the other members of the government who come here the day after you passed the law at the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51365	Time, colleague Gjurishic. I see you've read the law well, so I believe that all other colleagues could read it as soon as you've already found the provisions of the law that you'll quote in response to the minister. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51366	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Don't make us angry here because we criticise the law and it's not true that we can only ask you why not faster, it is our obligation that when you come here with a bill like this to ask you – why not better. Because what you brought us here is simply not good and you have to accept our arguments. Whether we had time to master as you say, I don't know, sneezingly, I understood that it was sublime, these two members or not, we think we've mastered them. And the fact that you, the fact that we interpret this law differently, think that we haven't mastered it, and you know it all, is really saying that you belong to the government that you're sitting in, because that's how that government works. If your goal was to drive away all the top quality public sector people with this bill, then you will succeed. If you were to bring an even greater injustice into the public sector’s pay system, and as one of the reasons why the law was passed, you are just stating this injustice that exists in that system, then you have succeeded in this task and you will only succeed. This law does not solve any problems that exist in the public sector or in the public sector pay system, but creates even greater problems. On the contrary, He introduces an even greater wrong. On the contrary, it seems to us that it will drive away the best, most valuable and most capable people from the public sector, and I will now try to show you why. First of all, you, in an explanation in one of the first sentences, where the reasons for the law being passed, complain that the public sector wage system is arranged with a large number of laws. However, these draft laws suggest the adoption of specific laws for each area and at least seven or eight places for the key things this law should regulate, you say will be regulated by some new special law. So as a result of this law, we will have the same number of laws that will regulate public sector wages by introducing a truly strange system in which only interest is valued and the basis is only interest and not knowledge, ability, expertise and so on. Well, you all have nurses the same, regardless of whether they work in an emergency center or work in some country health home. You all doctors are the same, all of you teachers are the same, you're all employed in the public sector, except, of course, those public sector employees who are like Orwell, like pigs, a little more equal than other public sector employees who are the additional problem of this law. It seems to me that you've had this conversation with the Doctors' Union, they've just complained that the most groups include those who were appointed by the Government, those who were set up by any level of government named where they are, and everyone else regardless of their expertise and so on are below them. They complained about it, the minister hurt them badly on that occasion, Minister Vujovic, if you remember, told them – who doesn't like it, can leave the country. It's also another government manoeuvre, that everyone criticises in any way, it's a coup on the state, etc., so it doesn't seem like it's going to solve the problem. Another problem that will not be solved is the problem of progress in the public sector. You here in Article 13 provide criteria, job classification, vocation and position of payment groups and payment classes and criteria for the evaluation of jobs. Let's see how you're worth it. Among other things, it is said that the complexity of jobs is a criterion that expresses the complexity of the task, as well as the method of work, the necessary degree of creativity and knowledge in the performance of tasks, i.e. decision-making, as well as in the application and development of new working methods. Competence is a criterion that expresses the degree of formal education acquired, the level of knowledge, skills and ability, as well as the gained work experience, of course, there is no word about receipts, references, etc. Responsibility is a criterion that expresses the level of influence, decisions on the performance of jobs and tasks, the achievement of the objectives of organisations, and I don't know where you come from that responsibility, I somehow experienced that responsibility is something else and perhaps one of the best criteria, business communication is a criterion that expresses the level of contact in and outside of the organisation and the level of importance of the results of communication achieved for the work of the organisation. Please, who is on this and how it measures and on what basis it measures, and of course you say, as well as all the key things in this bill that will be regulated by a special law. What do we need this law, if everything that matters in this law, and it's a lot of things like that, we're going to fix it with a special law. Please, how to measure the level of contact that someone has and how to measure someone's creativity in the work, how to measure the skills and abilities and who decides what they are, what to do with this arbitraryness and what to do with the arbitration that is here where we have some criteria, but these criteria are no criteria, because I think the basic property of the criteria is to be measurable. These criteria that you've given are partly incorrect, the responsibility is not that you say it's a liability, and in part they're absolutely immeasurable and left to some manager that I'm deciding whether someone is creative, and this special communication, I don't know, in our system it's probably called a relationship, whether you have a relationship so that something can be fixed, we really don't know what it means, and it's dangerous to stand in the law, especially because you're promoting that this law is now going to introduce some order in the public sector. A lot of exceptions, you're talking about establishing a base here. We thought it was a good thing that would be a unique basis for all employees, but in the next position you're giving exceptions, as well as a coefficient. It says, Article 8 of the coefficient expresses the value of all job requirements. Great. However, immediately thereafter, Article 9 of the corrective coefficient which is achieved on the basis of the permanent conditions for the performance or other permanent circumstances that arise in the jobs of the relevant job, which could not be taken into account in the value of the job. So the coefficients are taken into account all the circumstances and then we have some additional circumstances. What are the circumstances? It will be arranged, you will never guess, by a special law, again not by this law that lies before us and that is advertised as a solution to public sector problems. Job catalogue, that's pretty detailed. What, for example, could you not publish public sector incomes? Which is why this information could not be done as publicly, but make sure that it should be the reception of those who are engaged under the labour contract, the receipt of those who are engaged in some temporary and occasional business, we have criticised you, you may recall that in the 2016 budget of the Republic of Serbia we have 130m euros for various, different contracts per piece. These people will not be subject to this law, these people will not enter into the system of these salaries and tell me how you are then correcting injustices, and according to our calculations, the 130m euros is enough to hire 20,000 or 30,000 people, and many colleagues have mentioned the elections, probably in connection with the upcoming elections. One of the greatest injustices is that this bill does not apply to public undertakings. We were once told here by Prime Minister Vukic that we were cowards, and then when he was warned that it was wrong to speak, he was right and he said we were political cowards. I can tell you that in the Government of the Republic of Serbia there are political cowards who must not compromise the problem of pay...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51367	Miss Jerkov, would you like to talk about the agenda?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51368	Mr. Becic, are you listening to me?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51369	I'm listening.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51370	I don't think so, based on your intervention, I don't think so.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51371	You're quoting now, you'd say...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51372	Can you not take my time? To sit in the government of the Republic of Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51373	It would say Miss Jerkov that you should return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51374	Mr. Becic, can you explain to me what I'm not saying that is not in line with the agenda?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51375	Because you're talking about some sessions that were long ago and you're talking about a session that was two years ago, please get back to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51376	So in the government of the Republic of Serbia, there are political cowards who are not allowed to pass a public sector wage law that would refer to that part of the public sector where wage problems arise. After the adoption of this law, the salary of the maid in the EPS will be higher than the salary of teachers in primary school, the salary of truck drivers in city cleanliness will be higher than the salary of the principal of the primary school, and the salary of bus passengers will be higher than the salary of a specialist doctor. It is not a public sector salary problem and it is not an injustice in public sector wages, in the salary of a specialist doctor, but it is an injustice that bus counterers pay in urban traffic is higher than the salary of a specialist doctor, and this bill does not deal with it at all. You speak both in reason and in the media such that it is impossible to arrange wages in public enterprises, because of some market conditions, because they are companies whose business dictates the market, and hence, the amount of earnings dictates the market and the basic need. Please, Mrs Udovicki, do you really think that the business of our public enterprises receiving 44 billion dinars per year, subsidies from the Republic of Serbia's budget, which share employees with their 500 euro bonuses, which are in debt, and we had a session two months ago where we took over at the same session as the public debt of Serbia, the debt of "Serbiagas" and at the same session as the next item of the agenda, gave permission to "Serbiagas" to be additionally in charge and not only "Srbijagas" Mrs Udovici. Here, EPS directors spent four million dinars at the luxury hotel on 19.12.2015. Jorgenka Tabakovic hired another 100 people for a billion dinars. Anti-crisis measures in Railways, Cypriot cheese, Cuban cigarettes, 160,000 euros in travel, secretary with salaries of 120,000 dinars, in public enterprises in Novi Sad, average gross wages of more than 80,000 dinars. Competitions for the rental of bowling hall, gynecologist for employees, foot coasters, five million dinar cookies, Public enterprise Telecom...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51377	Miss Jerkov, aside from reading the title from the tabloids, would you like to talk a little bit about the agenda?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51378	Mr. Becic, these aren't titles from the tabloids.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51379	All you're reading is headlines from the tabloids.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51380	If you could just let me finish, that's the data...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51381	I have to interrupt you in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, because you're not talking about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51382	Here, contract, this isn't the title from the tabloids.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51383	A few days ago, right at the meeting, you were complaining about why someone was reading...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51384	Oh, I see you're reacting, that's the occasion, yes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51385	Well, I'm responding now.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51386	Can you let me talk, or are you gonna interrupt me every time?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51387	Well, I can't if you're going to read the headlines from the tabloids without talking about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51388	Here, I'm not gonna read the headlines from the tabloids. Here's the deal in court, between Telecom Serbia's telecom company and the public company PTT traffic in Serbia, Telekom undertakes to meet the obligation of Telecom employee Jorgovanka Tabakovic and to pay the claim to PTT worth 35% of the ideal part of the apartment from the contract...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51389	Just tell me, what does this have to do with this law?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51390	It has to do with that, Mr. Becic...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51391	Ms. Jerkov, on the agenda is the draft bill on the public sector wage system, the draft law on general administrative procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51392	Article 1 The law...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51393	And the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Territorial Organisation of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51394	Article 1 The law, Mr. Becic, speaks of the subject and contents of the law. The position, our parliamentary groups, DS, is that the subject and contents of the Law should also be entered by public enterprises. I'm just trying to show the need to get right for saving, control...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51395	Miss Jerkov, when you propose amendments, then you will be able to talk about something that is not the subject of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51396	Mr. Becic, they were amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51397	So you suggested it, your proposal is in the amendments, and you'll be able to talk about it. Now you can talk about the text of the law that's on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51398	Article 1 states – the provisions of this law do not apply to employees of public undertakings. I'm trying to convince the MPs that I should...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51399	But that's what you have to discuss in detail, when you'll be able to convince the members of the government with the amendments you've submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51400	Mr. Becic, if you could stop suggesting to me what to say, would I be grateful? I have not noticed that you suggest to the other MPs what they should say.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51401	Just that you're talking about the agenda, and there's no problem. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: It is the agenda. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51402	This is the agenda. The bill of law...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51403	Mr. Djurishic, you don't have to throw it away. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: The five-minute minister says there are no public enterprises. Did you listen? )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51404	The bill does not apply to public undertakings, and it is crucial and it is written in Article 1.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51405	Ms. Jerkov, the MPs are insolent because you're not talking about the agenda, I must, as chairman, when the MPs in the hall are insolent, I must react.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51406	The MPs resent exactly as you do, because I criticise the government's work and that's the only reason that both you and the MPs detest.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51407	Because they point out that I don't respect the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51408	MPs who feel that you do not respect the Rules of Procedure may come forward when I have finished the presentation and explained that you do not respect the Rules of Procedure, as well as all other MPs who think that your actual conduct, during the speech of one of the MPs, indicates that you are violating the Rules of Procedure. So I'm asking you to allow the lady...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51409	Miss Jerkov, I can't wait for you to finish your exposure and not talk 20 minutes about the agenda, so I can listen to the MPs who point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51410	Can you just tell me if you'll give me back this time you're taking away from me?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51411	Just to talk about the laws that are on the agenda, it's no problem. You can talk, even more than 20 minutes. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: The minister said for five minutes that there were no public enterprises, what are you talking about? Mr. Djurishich, I'm asking you not to throw it away. Don't be nervous, Mr. Gursich. (Marko Djurisic, from the site: Do not interrupt your colleague while speaking.) Well, don't throw it away, Mr. Gursich.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51412	No, no, no, no, Mr Djurisic is insolent, as other MPs, which is insolent, so you take their insolence into account, so please consider Mr Đurisic's insolence as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51413	But not in such a way, like the other MPs. Other MPs tell you not to talk about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51414	Mr. Becic, you weren't in the O.R., or you were when Minister Udovici spoke about this law. She spent a long time explaining why public enterprises are not in the law. I am part of my presentation, which is why I am committed to explaining why the DS believes public enterprises must be found in this law. You may know that citizens are also aware that the problem of public sector wages and the problem of excessive public sector employees do not stem from this part of the public sector that regulates the law, but is emerging and is created in that part of the public sector which is not regulated by the law, which is public enterprises. Part of my argument must be why the DS...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51415	Just explain to me, how will your argument at this stage of the debate affect what you're saying to be in the law? Just explain it to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51416	Mr. Becic, we don't want to, we want to convince the MPs not to support this law because it's not good. We believe, among other things, that it is not good because of the last position of Article 1 which reads - the provisions of this law do not apply to employees in public enterprises etc. So, we believe that, among other things, this Article 1 attitude is not a good law and no MP should support it. You have to let me say, although I can't believe at all that we need to explain why public sector problems are public enterprises and not primary schools and health homes, and apparently as soon as some criticism starts, you have no intention of listening. We have a very important question, Mrs. Widowsky. This table, which is in the article, after this huge article 14 in Article 15. Where did you get that table? Based on what known method did it come from? Based on what measurements? What does she mean? You can't see anything there. How did you get those coefficients based on what budget? These are, you know, things that are going to depend on people's lives tomorrow, they're going to depend on wages, etc., and we don't have any information on what kind of methodology you've come up with, and what do you figure out how many people will get paid? Article 16, the coefficient for the calculation of the basic salary of the officials referred to in Article 1, shall be determined according to the criteria of responsibility. Is it just this criterion of responsibility that has been misexplained in previous members or responsibilities as such or what is it about? And, of course, it will be regulated by a special law, not by this law. So we don't see why this law came by emergency procedure. Our Rules of Procedure states that those laws, which would not result in the consequences, the adverse consequences of life, functioning, security, etc., are to be passed by an urgent procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51417	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51418	We are adopting a law here that will begin to apply since 2017. The sublaw of some 2018, so it won't fix anything, will do new damage, and the injustice will be even greater.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51419	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51420	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a member of 106 has been injured talking about the speaker being able to speak only about the agenda point. The bill makes it quite clear what the law refers to. The law refers to the public sector wage system. Under the public sector, general states are understood, public enterprises are not involved. And you, Mr. Chairman, should make sure that this session doesn't turn into a yellow press reading, under the control of the yellow party. If we talk about public enterprises, the yellow party has systematically robbed the public enterprises since 2000, and the EPS, and "Serbiagas", and "Serbs of Serbia" and all public enterprises. (Marco Djurisic, from the scene: did you realize what he wanted to talk about for two minutes? Incurring with automatic rifles, with black phantoms... (Marco Djurisic, from the post: It is the same injury of the Rules of Procedure? )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51421	Mr. Martinovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51422	... And they're the last ones to talk about it. As for the summer, Bojan Pajtic was flying on Brijuni...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51423	Mr. Martinovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51424	For days, the Serbian public...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51425	Mr. Djurisic, I can't hear Mr. Martinovic when you throw all the time. And you won't hear it, you can't hear it. Stop him if you dare. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51426	For days, the Serbian public, Mr. Becic, so let them be a little nervous, the nostalgia with those times is obvious... (Marko Djurisic, from the place: E coward. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51427	Sir... I apologize, Mr. Martinovic, Mr. Djurisic throws "cuckoos" or something. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Ma, cowards, cowards.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51428	I don't mind that at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51429	Please, Mr. Martinovic, I think you should complete your exposure to the injury of the Rules of Procedure. Please finish this sentence now.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51430	So, don't let this session turn into something that isn't a part of the agenda and don't let those who ruined Serbia and who in 12 years have failed to pass a law like this, now give us lessons about what the law needs to regulate. Why didn't you pass this law? What you've brought public enterprises into the situation that they're losers...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51431	Thank you, Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51432	... that people lost their jobs, that abuses happen...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51433	Ambassador, don't go into replicas. Thank you. (Alexander Martinovic: So the law does not refer to what DS MPs were talking about. ( ) Do you want us to plead on the injury of the Rules of Procedure? (Alexander Martinovic: No. The word has a minister, to answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51434	First of all, I would really like to thank Parliamentarian Jerkov, because her discussion was exactly what I appealed for in my previous discussion. So, to answer why this law that has only been applied since 2017 was still needed to be passed now, precisely because of the work that I have explained is already being done, it is in progress. It is not possible to make more serious progress towards formulating and working on finer criteria for making special laws without this law now and some of the provisions it adopts. One, it obliges us all to really do the new laws that are necessary, these special ones. This is a commitment that will make us seriously progress towards European integration and for what, as I mentioned earlier, we have been provided with funds from both the EU and the World Bank. Those sleeves are running. A job that has to be done by 2017 cannot wait for December 25th, for example. 2016, then let's do it. On the contrary, we need this law now to keep doing this job and to finish it right. If you pay attention, the catalyses must be done six months after the law is passed. We actually need to balance the coefficients this law adopts in order to be able to work together with catalogues and to distinguish all jobs more finely so that we can finish these catalogues. There's one big job behind this law that's done, and it's not necessarily seen by its reading. It was simply necessary to complete this law now, in order to meet all these obligations and conditions in relation to and to the international community. That's when it comes to time. When it comes to the fact that the forest of law and regulations that this law will replace will not be replaced by one law but by this law and by special laws, it is the differences, the rows of size, and secondly, here it is clearly said that the specificities left to be identified, or prescribed in the laws. The problem with the transparency of the current system is that many things go into sublaw. Some of it even goes to government conclusions, which don't have to be published. So now there won't be just one law, as I've already mentioned in my discussion several times. This one law has tried to bring this country more times and failed. It's actually probably for a good reason. One law would make a tight shirt for 500 thousand very different employees, which we are trying, whose employment relations and earnings and rewards we are trying to bring from a very messy state into a more orderly state, if not a perfect condition. So it's a good thing we're doing this semi-centralized way, and it's going to be incomparably more orderly and transparent than the current system, although there will be more special laws in it. Is this law making it impossible to do something that is relatively untransparent again? Well, it reduces the possibility, but if the next governments don't want to keep their system in order, I again appeal to MPs and citizens not to allow it. This law thus designed allows for significant, incomparable, orderly size and more to increase transparency and system arrangements. Absolutely not only enables it, but also requires, but of course, it wouldn't be the first time that the law doesn't apply both by letter and by its own spirit. That's one thing. When it comes to your discussion on the fairness of profit relations, I'd just like to draw your attention that there are no maids in the EPS, that they're out-of-work for a long time, and I'm asking you with those comparisons to get off the mythological stories and to concentrate again. I no longer want to discuss why or not public enterprises are covered by this law, except that I will very clearly agree that the cancer of our society's wounds is the regulation of public enterprises and this government is working to regulate public enterprises. The only thing I'm saying is that this law is not an instrument for it. This law is an instrument for editing other 10,000 direct and indirect budget users, not public enterprises. Now, you've mentioned, you've read the criteria of Article 15 and you've mentioned this in connection with the problem of whether this law allows for comparison, whether it will enable an increase, so to speak, of the justice of the system. In order to understand Article 15 well and in general to understand the law, it must be borne in mind that one is the value of a person and the other is the value of a job or of a calling. The job and calling is what is relatively detailed in this law. And when it comes to responsibility and when it comes to competence, it doesn't once refer to a specific employee. This must be done as this employee meets the job requirements, whether this person is really as competent as this job requires, whether or not he or she communicates in the best form possible, it is a special question and it is not directly governed by this law. In fact, this law says that special laws will have to be better prescribed to measure the impact and these conditions. The catalogue describes the conditions that a general individual must satisfy, but this law speaks of criteria that will evaluate jobs, or titles. It's a characteristic of the so-called. the mixed system, which we mainly have in our administration or especially in the state administration, or among civil servants, where we are not focusing on the career of an individual, but the career of an individual monitors movements through jobs that are described or titles that are described, and by the very fact that you have earned a certain rank, so to speak, a job or a calling, you are progressing in your career. So you have to keep separate these terms and then it becomes more clear why the criteria are described as described. In a corrective coefficient, let me explain, yes, there may be the greatest risk of abuse unless they are used adequately. However, the law also makes it very clear that this corrective coefficient and serves to prevent something that you have mentioned that this law does not resolve. First, not all nurses will be treated the same. At this point in the workplace catalogue there are, I would not like to give a precise number, but certainly more than six, and less than 15 and much less than is currently in the practice of describing the jobs of nurses. We took great care to recognize the differences between different jobs without them being made artificially where it is not necessary. However, once you establish one job that covers people who work in different institutions at a similar workplace, in such a workplace, you may be wronged if you do not leave the possibility that in a few situations, in addition to everything that the workplace requires, in addition to the usual conditions in which it is done and which are already described in that workplace, and we, for example, are. In this catalogue we are absolutely making the difference between a nurse's job in emergency care and a home of health, but there could be another circumstance that, for example, makes this home of health, now I'm giving it as a completely illustrative example, perhaps in a very remote location that must come with a special effort, perhaps this could be a reason for a corrective coefficient or for it to be resolved through some compensation. In any case, we leave the possibility that when working conditions are so different from what is common and already valued in the job description, and for those who implement this law it is that in detail, so to speak, record what is all taken into account when a job is valued and that they clearly argue why, in this specific reason, in certain conditions, it will require a corrective coefficient, the possibility of there being no injustice is left. So it's not at all questionable to publish receipts. They can't be published just like that for individuals, you know the rules on the protection of personality data, except when, of course, public officials are involved, and then that's a special topic. However, that is what we will do when the register of employees is arranged, and this is foreseen by the register of employees to publish the total income, i.e. the average income for certain jobs. It is very important for this to be known that it would also make sure that the classification of paying groups, through some specificities that will still be for each job, does not lead to completely unwarranted income differences, and this will be another task and citizens, and parliamentarians, and future employees in this country, to take account of the ratio of average income, and not just what is prescribed and clearly visible directly in the law. I think I answered that and once again to say I wasn't angry, but I did fall to say so in a small fire because I care that the more citizens, the more correct, understands what this law is and what it isn't, so that in the future we have a chance to really get this country in line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51435	Thank you. Veroljub Arsic asked for a replica. Whose exposure? (Veloljub Arsic, from town: At the exhibition of colleague Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51436	Madam Minister, I think that after a discussion like this, a colleague from the DS, you first had to give a lecture on office business, because once they learned office business, they would be able to talk about the Law on Civil Service Employees and their salaries. The other thing, someone here called someone a political coward, so I'm asking one logical question, and now there's almost half-term elections and Aleksandar Vukic and SNS aren't afraid to go to those elections at all, is it a cowardice to check the results of your government and your program in elections or is it cowardice, as Bojan Pajtic does, to remain in power until the last minute? What is it, but cowardice? Madam President, the word cowardice is due to a bird we all call a coward, and that's for laying an egg in another's nest and waiting for the cubs to hatch at another bird. That's how it happened. That's not how the DS guys do anything else, it's all the worst they've ever done while they're in power, they're trying to pin it on us. They don't do anything else. And the number of employees in public enterprises and the state administration you've made, you've made debts, you've ruined public enterprises, and now you're saying it's our fault. No, it's not. We accept that we wear what we did wrong, accept that we wear what we did well. Your merits, no good, no bad, we don't want to.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51437	Does the authorized want to answer, because there was a speech about the DS... (Natasa Vukkovic, from the post: said counterpart Jerkov. He mentioned it. He didn't mention her at all, but he mentioned DS. (Natasa Vukkovic, from the post: I will answer, but she is an authorised representative. You're authorized? You're both here. At least draw a card, we'll meet the conditions.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51438	Thank you, Madam President. Aleksandar Vukic resigned two years ago and is now probably aware that he is not doing a good job as Prime Minister. I don't know why every two years we'd have an election. If one's wish to resign is because of the fact that it has proved to be out of 24 MPs, how many SNS have won in the province's elections, up to 61 as much as it takes to form a government, it can't be so easy to come by the usual ways in which the SNS comes to power where it lost in the elections, I'm afraid it's not the job of the Prime Minister to meet such wishes of the SNS that regardless of the result of the election it comes to power. That's not how the state works. Mrs. Widowsky is here, so she can say that the state administration doesn't work like that, that the political system doesn't work. If someone wants to have an election every two years and to distract those citizens' elections, it's his personal choice, it's simply the character of your party, but you can't expect others to behave like that. The SNS are getting it. Mrs. Widowsky, you didn't tell me about the table, how did you get, by what methodology, to it? At the other SNS observations, I wouldn't hold back.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51439	My apologies to the president of the DS parliamentary group. I made a mistake, you're right. I'm sorry. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51440	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are two things in politics. One is called legality, and the other is called legitimacy. Who do you represent? Who more does Bojan Pajtic represent in Vojvodina? Out of 100 citizens, only four, five. How many do they represent? Two and a half, how much? When a person is involved in politics, he has the right to ask for his results to be checked in front of the citizens. What are you afraid of? Come on out. Here it was in the previous term, I said – we will discuss parliamentary elections as soon as Bojan Pajtic resigns, that we will go to the elections together. That's when you kept your mouth shut, you shouldn't have written about the election in Vojvodina. It's cowardice. Get out front of the building, have Mr. Pajtic come out without a bodyguard to hear what his citizens think. It's cowardice to rob disabled children with a million euros. It's cowardice, not election call, assaulting political inexperience, telling lies, mentioning what kind of account he's made. As a politician, as an MP, I'm interested in the result of the organ. You mentioned the National Bank. In four years while you were in power, the euro from 78 jumped to 119. Here are four years, four dinars jumped. Your inflation was 15%, and now it's 2%. These are work results, and dilettantes deal with bills, aprons, shoes and other things.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51441	The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51442	Thank you, Madam President. You know, the legitimacy of the story is someone who, despite the loss in the election, didn't choose a way to come to power, and those ways went to the point where individual committees, including myself, reported to the police the way that SNS is transposing power across Serbia, so when someone talks about legitimacy, it's about when security is being told by someone who happened to have the president's brother's military security killed himself with a gendarme. You have so much moral right to speak of both legitimacy and security that politicians have. The Serbian Progressive Party came to Novi Sad to power with committees that itself reported to the police for the purchase of votes. The Serbian Progressive Party came to power in the White Church with false security, a fake contract and a private agency that wouldn't allow the council members to enter the Parliament building in Mladenov, by having a committee with a police escort come to withdraw the unrestrained resignation it had called a day earlier. Everything you have, Mr. Arsic, and you personally and any of the MPs, whatever you have as a felony, please report, don't answer, you know it's a crime not to report a crime. So either report it or don’t talk about it in the congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51443	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51444	It's when we talk about breaking through doors and here they were breaking into the Parliament 16 years ago, and there was a similar situation in the White Church. You know, that's not where the councilmen came in, it's some people on the street. And as one cannot enter this building uninvited, neither can the Assembly nor any local self - government congregation. So you talked about the sprays, which you didn't talk about. You went out in all the media, in all the newspapers, on all the TVs. Does anyone know that I was attacked physically in front of television cameras during your power? Nobody knows. None of the newspapers reported it, no TV transmitted it, just some local ones. I wasn't screaming back then and moaning about how dictatorship is, like you guys are doing. I didn't make a scene of it, I called conferences that belong to me as a MP here in the lobby. I didn't do that. I was in politics, not politics. That's the difference between you and me. Once you start telling the truth, at least once. Believe me, it'll be easier for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51445	Here, now we're gonna finish this story. We're moving on to the agenda. The word has the authority of Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51446	Dear Presidents, honourable Deputy Prime Ministers with Associates, my fellow Members of the People's Parliament and People's Parliament, I will, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, present my position on the draft law on the public sector wage system. Given the importance of this law, I'll stick to it in more detail. Given the importance of the second General Administrative Procedure Act, he will be spoken of later by my esteemed colleague, Nedo Jovanovic. So, in general, very precise and very clear announcement of the SPS's position on both laws. When it comes to the Law on the Public Sector Payments System, I want to know for who knows which time, and I am personally the fourth time in this Assembly talking about the state, the mess when it comes to public sector wages, and here's another reminder. Payments arranged by a whole series of laws due to an unequal approach in the way of determining wages lead to inequality in rights, lead to inability to effectively control, intransparent and, most importantly, to an unfair overall system. It's the current state of pay in the public sector. The basis for calculating the salary is not unique. There are over ten, some even say 19. The basics vary depending on the parts of the public sector. Of course, the coefficients are different. Thus, the basis for civil servants is 17,101 but has its coefficients. In the bodies of units of local self-government 2.278 but having different coefficients. Over 500 coefficients only exist in the public service sector, and there are four different bases in the public service sector, 2,462 dinars, 2,415, 2,439, 2,392, and not to count further. Therefore, certain parts of the sector have been introduced and changed in a partial and non-coordinated manner, unequal and unfair manner. So today we have 70 different grounds for compensation, we have ten different bases, I said, some say 19. We have over 900 coefficients, etc. All of this, of course, has an inequality and injustice in the public sector’s wage system. That is how it came down to the fact that jobs of the same complexity or even identical jobs completely in different parts of the public sector are paid differently. So, in one sentence, I might have said, simply put -- the public sector pay system is completely unregulated, completely unequal and completely unfair. Now, the question is now – what do we do now? I am precisely for these reasons, given that for many years this system has been such a wreck, just reminding myself that the Law on wages in state authorities and public services that has worked for over 15 years, which has tried to regulate it in a unique way, has failed. In time, everyone escaped from him. It's simple to determine different basics or different coefficients and we've come to this kind of forest of disorder, inequality, injustice. I want precisely for the reason that my party and I have personally advocated the introduction of order in this area, to introduce this pay system, just given that the government has come out with this bill on the public sector pay system, I want to give recognition and support to the government for dealing with this huge problem and put it in front of me to say, this task to solve it. I also want to give my confession that this government has a very clear reform programme, it's firmly defending them, and it's doing great. Part of these reforms is public sector reform, and part of it is public sector wage reform. For these reasons, I want to support the strong government for coming out with a bill like this. Of course, anything with a permanent goal that the government is seeking, and that is to be arranged, economically strong, but also socially just. I want to give credit for solving the long-term problem of inequality, the unfairness of the public sector's income system. As a member of the SPS, I would especially like to give recognition because of the way to reach a solution through social dialogue, because without the social partner's dialogue. Without a social agreement, reforms cannot be successfully implemented especially in the public sector, if we fail to reform the public sector, we will also question all these other reforms. This also shows, of course, how this law came about through social dialogue, through dialogue with the social partners, all disputed items in the law have been agreed and the government has shown that the aim is not to propose this law, impose a solution, but to seek them along with social partners, with other participants and representatives in the public, and that is the quality and value of this law. I want to say that any law that comes to this Assembly if it is the result of a social dialogue agreement, we will always support it. I want to say that this government should continue in this way, through social dialogue, that there is every solution to the next one that will be offered in this Assembly, because we are all aware that the economic reforms we have entered are necessary. Social reforms are also necessary, but neither can be implemented nor can be successful unless they are socially just. So it must also be economically sustainable, but also socially sustainable. I simply want to support the government to continue, i.e. when it comes to this issue, there is a solution through social dialogue. What's the result? The dilemmas are an explanation, and no law in this law is diminished. The government made sure that all the solutions that were, at the same time, in line with the Labour Act, as a basic law, the system law, and it had just succeeded. So no rights are reduced, the profits are not reduced and simply no one is threatened, no one has lost. On the contrary, they have received some rights in this sector that they have never had before. For example, the regression and the warm meal had so far not been separated from the salary, from the coefficient, but for 15 years. So, for this reason and for the reason of introducing order in this area, my full support and I expect it to continue as well in the future. When it comes to the new law, I would just like to say briefly that the new law establishes a single system of wages and promotes a more socially fair model of pay for public sector employees. The law, it should also be said, does not cause any increased costs, not for the economy, not for the citizens. On the contrary, there will be more effective control. I think the special effects of this law will be the code at this point of the least paid parts of the public sector, which is social protection, education, culture, health care. Of course, not all of a sudden, but over time, it's the goal of trying, who it wants to reach. The law also establishes a single system of salaries for all public sector employees, setting general principles and principles for determining the level of wages in a unique way. You know, we've heard a lot here and conversations and controversy, this law doesn't solve the whole problem, but without this law, you can't solve the pay problem in the public sector. It lays down basic principles and principles, on which further work will be done and in the time ahead to get what is desired, which is that for the same work you get the same salary, or approximately the same work – approximately the same salary. That's the ultimate goal, that's fair, and that's what's going on under this law. Short to say that there is actually a basic salary under this law. By multiplying the base and coefficient. Now, what is the fundamental change in this law? The basis is unique for all employees and is determined for each financial year by the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia, I stress, with the opinion of the Social Economic Council of the Republic of Serbia previously obtained. Full support, because we don't have ten or nineteen basics anymore, I don't know what number that is, but we already have one unique. Full support also because of the way it comes to such a unique base. When it comes to the coefficient, in one sentence, it is the coefficient that expresses the actual value of all job requirements. This law is very precise, so to speak, given that these are the basics, established the ranges, established the pay groups, paid classes. The range of pay groups is 13, and the pay grade, as I've seen, seems to me to be up to nine within the same pay group. He established criteria for the evaluation of jobs and general descriptions of paying groups, on which the classification of jobs, calls and positions in the pay group will be done, and then, in time, when someone achieves better results, there is the possibility of moving in the same workplace, but horizontally towards higher paying classes, which I think is very well designed. Of course, there are 13 paying groups, I said, and up to nine paying classes. It should also be pointed out that the law provides both the possibility of independence and flexibility in those cases where it is necessary to identify the specificity of that system and to establish a fairer and more correct schedule for public sector employees through a corrective coefficient. What's the most important thing about this? The most important thing is that, in fact, by establishing a unique base, by establishing a range of paying groups and paying classes, with a new one element, which is to establish a catalogue of jobs, which is a very important thing, and a huge job is to create catalogues so that all these jobs can be monitored, by establishing criteria for evaluating the general descriptions of payment groups, we come to a more transparent, more comparable, when it has to be compared, as well as a more controlled pay system. It's actually one of the very important objectives of this law. Again, it is possible to value jobs in a fairer way throughout the sector, i.e. to allow for fairer implementation of the principle – equal basic salary for working with equal value. Just for a little while, to point out, of course, this is just a base, establishing basic principles and principles. Specific laws in the field of education, health, culture, social protection, state administration, etc., the adoption of these laws will actually achieve a rounded system of wages in general. When it comes to the Law on the Payment System, there is something more to be said about which there has been a lot of controversy in the public, and these are salaries, pay additions and expenses and other receipts. I'd like to say in one sentence that salary fees, expenses are exactly the same as the Labour Act. In some situations, they are even more favourable. When I say the same thing, I think it's a very important question, because one of the objectives of the Law on the Public Sector Payments System is equalising wages in the public sector. In this way, when it comes to the fact that all fees and salaries and expenses are entirely in line with the Labour Act, we are also doing evening on the basis of labour rights with all employees, not just in the public sector. When I just said there's salary and expenses that are even more favourable than the Labour Act, here's just one more detail. For example, it's more favourable when it comes to past work, the Labour Act is with the last employer, while here in the administration, anywhere. What's more favourable? Stand by. The labour law doesn't pay attention, and if he calls for work, he gets paid as a regular job. Under this law, alertness is paid 10%, and if it is called for, it is calculated as overtime. So it's more favourable than the Labour Act. What else do I want to say? Here's something that's been provided for in this law, which so far has not been, which is a supplement for nutrition and regression. So far, this possibility has not been out of the coefficient within which it has been for 15 years. So that's what's more favourable than before. At the end of all other fees during the absence from work, sick leave, etc., rest, fully equivalent to the Labour Act and, of course, on the basis of the calculation of the remuneration relating to the average salary of employees. I'll finish what I started with. One huge disorder in this area, one mess, I didn't, I mentioned many times in the debate, it doesn't make sense in one country that the assistant minister has a higher salary than the minister, that the chief of staff has a higher salary than the president of the Assembly, that the President of the Republic or the Prime Minister has five hundred, perhaps by rank salary, compared to all, independent, independent, any other bodies, etc. It's a good thing this government is dealing with this, coming up with this bill, which is now actually a commitment to all those governments of the people, I hope that after the election, it will be the same to implement this into action. We'll support the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51447	Thank you. The word has the mandated representative of the NS parliamentary group, MP Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go, Mrs. Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51448	Thank you. Dear Mrs Udovici, colleagues and colleagues, the MPs are undeniably in need of these two system laws, that the European Commission has given a positive opinion on both laws and that it regulates transparency and clear rules in the public sector in the area of pay. Because of the citizens of Serbia, I think it is very important to point out once again the reasons why this law is being passed today, which is what we are discussing today, and you, Mrs. Udovici, in your opening statement, have highlighted this, and this is the inequality and inequality of the existing system of earnings. Only one argument in my opinion is very important for the adoption of this law, which is to pay employees in different parts of the public sector are governed by a number of different regulations. So should we allow over 20 laws and sublegal acts to regulate pay levels into 11,000 budget users? Over 900 coefficients we had 12 basics for determining salaries, over 2,200 jobs, 70 different basis for compensation, and regulations were introduced and changed in a partial and non-coordinated way in certain parts of the system. It is clear to me how difficult it has been for both you and your co-workers at the Ministry just to bring in a hundred and five hundred thousand workers, to listen to them, and to pack all their demands in the proposal of this law. I myself took part in the public debates that you and the representatives of the Ministry led. I was in KBC last November. I was in KBC. Bezanian hair at the call of the union of nurses and technicians, and I was able to see how this dialogue is being conducted, and how many representatives of the Ministry with care listen to all the arguments of the union, representatives of the social sector, and how much representatives of the Ministry are really trying to explain all their demands to explain, if I can't get their proposals into the law, which was enough for me to understand the intention of you and your associates that you really care about passing a good law and that it is applicable in practice. The basic objectives of this law are to edit the pay system on a unique basis. Therefore, the reduction or elimination of pay inequalities and the achievement of fairness, the management of budget costs, the establishment of a human resource management organisation in line with the services provided by the public sector. What is particularly important and what I think in practice, the proposal for a public sector wage system law will enable, modern and efficient and cost-effective management, which in one way or another will be the service of citizens. The content of the Bills shall, above all, define and cover employees who are subject to the regulation of salaries in the common system, the introduction of catalogues of jobs, the definition of common and the same basics for salary allowances, remuneration fees, the respect of specific and individual parts of the public sector through the provision of the basis for allowances and other costs and receipts to be defined in other laws. I think it's very important, and you as workers and employees of the Ministry of State Administration, to adopt in time sublegal acts, and I believe that we will also have a legal deadline. We, as MPs, are not in a position to be given sublegal acts, we see it on the basis of our Labour Regulations, but we are in a position to monitor the application of this law and, together with you, to the extent necessary, to point out possible difficulties in the application of this law that will certainly be at the beginning. At the end of my presentation, I would like to tell you that the NS parliamentary group will support both draft laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51449	Thank you, Mrs. Filipovski. The word has an authorised representative of the SNS, MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51450	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it was necessary to pass this law. It was necessary to bring it, and this is because Serbia had a series of legislative processes so that certain laws simply lost their efficiency and application, the possibility of quality application because they were run over by time. When it comes to this public sector pay system law, I think it was time to bring something like this. Finally, we have one matter fully defined by law. And by a law that is not quickly passed, as some say, it is after a serious debate with representatives and unions and employees of the authorities of the state administration that would quickly block the entire administration, all the state authorities and all the other institutions that rely on one such law. It was necessary to bring it in for other reasons. One of these reasons is one of the very bad experiences that we had in previous procedures that regulated this matter. Mrs. Secretary probably doesn't know there's been any attempts to solve this before, but not this well. Moreover, the biggest problem was that those who participated in law writing watched where their place was in law. Well, they looked for themselves to secure the best positions and this reflected the excess employees in the authorities of the state administration. Because they have introduced one rule that someone can be a substitute, can be a manager, but must meet the conditions of the number of employees under his direct supervision. So if he's a manager, he's got a certain calling, he'll have 30% or 40% less salary if he controls two of his employees than he controls five or more. That's how they ruled. So then, in order for their politically-like tenant to have a 30% or 40% higher salary, they hired new people to whom he would run and exercise that right. And then we came to the point that we had a state administration that was inefficient, that didn't have a fair evaluation system and that just worked on some verse when, how and who comes to mind. I remember those legal solutions perfectly. Public enterprises cannot be found in this law because, however, I think as chairman of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, there are different sources of funding for profits. State administration, education, health care, are financed from budget revenues. Whether they are from funds, whether directly from the budget, whether they are from the republican budget, the budgets of the unit of local self-government or the budget of the autonomous province are from the budget. Because all these bodies that I have now cited have their own incomes, which we have given them here in the National Assembly by law, and they have trusted revenues, which we have also set out by law. All of them are essentially financed from the consolidated budget of the Republic of Serbia. Some people want to admit it or not, but that's how it is. Public enterprises are doing business of public interest, but since we started the procedure long ago in 2000, 2001, with reforms, many of our public enterprises already have competition on the market, and are already burdened with legislation, such as the Public Procurement Act, so their decision-making and market participation process is far more difficult than private capital, although they are carrying out some sort of procurement process, but there is no one real complaint about their process. You need people who run public enterprises to be motivated, to realize that public interest and to preserve a public enterprise. We will not lie that there were no irregularities in the past and that many in public enterprises lived on money they did not provide. Someone said now, we gave the guarantees to "Serbiagas," and that's not true. We took the debt from the "Serbigas" made by those who are now criticizing us. We gave guarantees between 2008 and 2012 "Srbigas", and now we have turned these guarantees into public debt under the Guarantee Act, which this Assembly, with the majority led by DS, gave. What are you surprised at now? So it was, and for "Er Serbia", for "JAT", we gave guarantees here that these obligations would be settled. So you ran the company so they couldn't be settled, and now they're getting out of the budget, and it's a government debt as soon as you give the guarantee. You learn that once. We don't want to talk about it. We don't want to talk about it. When someone criticises the work in public enterprises, especially when they mention EPS, I'd like to... (Marco Djurisic, from the place: Theme, can I have a word with you? )......................................................................................................... with a theme about public enterprises, so I'd like a colleague who throws one down into any mine or any surface spear to fly or winter, anyway, to see if anyone would work for 22,000 or 25,000 dinars...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51451	Mr. Arsic, please continue the exposure, we are used to Mr. Djurisic throwing away, do not pay attention. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: You must not tell him – the subject, cowards. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51452	It's the difference between who sits in the office and who works and creates a new value in the state. Certainly, in some future, I expect this problem to finally be solved and put an end to that story. Someone thinks all our public enterprises should be sold, and I personally don't, I don't think that's wise, because some are very important for the functioning of the entire economic system of the Republic of Serbia. They should not succumb to the interests of large multinational companies in this regard. The draft law on general administrative procedure, since I will now only take ten minutes to use it, I am glad that all those provisions of the law, the old laws that have been proven and proved, in time, because this law has been long and preserved and I am glad that we are harmonising with this law all those legal regulations that we have made over the past few years and we are allowing the state administration to finally work faster and more effectively, since we have created all possible legal assumptions for it. Even the Citizens' Protector, Mr. Jankovic, agrees with that, and when I read it, I had to see if something would fall on my head, but it was nothing. He had only one remark that he should not decide an individual, and I think he should decide an individual, because the minister is given an act that needs to be signed and prepared by his associates. Sam is often not professional enough and capable of verifying the correctness of such an act that he signs, and he bears responsibility if he signs something against the law. Here in this case it is foreseen by this law that an individual will work because of the assumption that he would not be in that place, that he is not capable and professional, that this is exactly the kind of act he prescribes and signes. Of course, for all he's doing, he'll have to answer if there's any serious leaks. So much in this first part of it. I would like the gentlemen who earn and who even said that this law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Territorial Organisation of the Republic of Serbia, so now someone is getting the status of the city who is a prime minister. The fireman won the status of the city, but not thanks to the DS, but to professional people who wrote a law on territorial division between cities and municipalities. The political part of the working group that wrote, she didn't want to give the town's status to the fireman. You know why? Not because the first court of state was founded in Pozarevec, not because the first military unit was founded in Pozarevec, not because the first air school was founded in Pozarevec, they did not want to give him the status of the city, because Slobodan Milosevic was born there. So much for that. However, that professional part, although a little under duress, forced him to be a political and fireman city and get that status, so that someone gets the status of the city, whose heart is pleased about the prime minister, is not true and you proved it in the earlier period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51453	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Since there are no more applications under this Rule of Procedure, we are moving to the order of MPs according to the application for a word in the joint principled search. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51454	Thank you, Chairman. A respected minister with associates, respected fellow MPs, respected Serbian citizens, as already noted by PG SPS's authorised representative, distinguished counterpart Milisav Petronijevic, the PG Socialist Party of Serbia will undoubtedly support all three legal acts we are discussing today, given that the authorised representative has both made a factual and legal argument to support the public sector's wage law. I will not touch that law, so that the focus of my discussion will be focused on the General Administrative Procedure Act, as we have already discussed, which we have started on the Committee of Resolution, or on the Committee on Legislative Affairs and Constitutional Affairs, where we have launched certain topics that can earn attention and which, in any case, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia expect adequate answers. Of course this law you've proposed, Your Honor, is a good law. We can't even say that the previous General Administrative Procedure Act was bad, on the contrary. He contained a lot of good procedural and legal institutes and since it is a law of procedural and legal nature, we can say that this law also contains now solutions which, in any case, make a qualitative shift in relation to the previously valid and still in force, until we adopt this law, the General Administrative Procedure Act. What is very good is that some new procedural and legal institutes have been introduced, which will undoubtedly make this General Administrative Procedure Act more efficient, and therefore more favourable for citizens. Why? Because Serbia's citizens, mainly facing the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act, have encountered certain problems and even disadvantages regarding the effectiveness in the conduct of the organs, I am talking about administrative bodies, primarily state bodies. Then, the long period of time during which the procedure and decision-making took place, not to mention how construction permits were issued, where the administrative procedure was also applied, as was done in some procedures which relate precisely to strategic planning and, of course, to the parties, was in some way done as procedures which are unnecessarily long. What we can say, as I have already pointed out, is that, in addition to very good procedural and legal solutions, there are some solutions, a respected minister, who could possibly, with your support, of course, and an understanding of what I will point out on behalf of the SPS Group, to make this law even better by quality. First of all, when we talk about Articles 9, 17, 18, 25, it's the very beginning of the General Administrative Procedure Act, we find solutions that are generally good. However, when we talk about the principle of efficiency and economics of the process, the Minister, it seems to me that there is a lack of sanctions for the failure of the administrative authority, exactly in accordance with this principle. Therefore, if the state authority does not act effectively, if the state body, which is also the administrative authority within the deadlines to be as short as possible, does not make decisions, does not take certain procedural actions, then it would be logical to prescribe adequate sanctions. Does the law contain such provisions in this case? I don't think so. By reading, with careful reading of this law, I did not find that an authorized person in the name of a governing body, unless he is acting within deadlines, does not act effectively, has an up-to-date effect. Of course, a disciplinary procedure can be initiated against such a person, but I would point out to you the solution contained in the provisions of the Law on Prosecution and I would point to another solution contained in the Law on Infringement of the Right of Judgment within a reasonable period, which this very Assembly has made. By analogy with these procedural solutions, the Minister, could have made the same process solutions contained in the provisions of this law, so as to make it as effective as possible. Secondly, Article 17 states that the start of the administrative procedure is the time when the party is informed of the taking of an appropriate administrative act. We lawyers and how well we know that the notice is one quite broad term. The notice may also be a notice on the notice board. The notice can also be electronic. The notification may also be in the means of information, but what is defined in other procedural laws, such as the Law on a litigation procedure, such as the Code of Criminal Procedure, the extraparate procedure, is not a matter of notification, but of the delivery of an administrative act to the parties, and from that moment on, the administrative procedure begins. It's a good thing you brought the so-called law into it. a guarantee act on the basis of which the administrative authority undertakes to adopt, at the request of the party, a final act or take an appropriate administrative action and that is a good solution, and we in the SPS parliamentary group support the same, because it is in the interest of the citizens, because it is in the interest of the efficiency of the proceedings, therefore in the interest of the party participating in the procedure. Article 25 states that the party must be given the right to terminate the contract, I apologize, the authority has been given the right to terminate the contract, but not to the parties, and we discussed this on the Committee on Legislative Affairs and Constitutional Affairs. Your Honor, there's a problem here. If a contract is made between the authority and the party, it is a good solution, as the contract and the party and the authority commit themselves to certain actions. The Authority shall act effectively on the one hand, on the other hand, to take the actions prescribed by that contract, i.e. on the burden of the party. That's an excellent solution, but after that, in article 25, you've predicted that the right to terminate the contract only has a state authority or administrative authority. There is no party, the party has only the right to object. You have tried to explain to the Committee that this is exactly the solution for the party to object and that it will protect its interest. There's a second question. In principle, each contract implies respect for the parties that must be fully equal, completely equal. It is thus contained in the Law on Bond Relations, so it is contained in the civil laws. After all, there is also a Constitution in Article 21. — the principle of non-discrimination. Here we come to the situation that the government's authority is somehow privileged to the party. He will unilaterally break the contract, the party cannot do so, the party can state the objection. What happens after the complaint? What if the objection is denied? The contract remains in force. Can the objection always have consequences for the termination of the contract? This remains a question and an esteemed colleague who gave an answer to the Committee on Justice can in some way be interpreted as a legal solution, but the question is whether it is a comprehensive legal solution? The question arises whether there are any other procedural solutions that can be more in favour of the party in any case? So, in any case, this issue remains in some way an open question which, in our MP group, the SPS may require a more adequate or favourable solution to be found. We also think that a respected minister in this law should also prescribe deadlines in which the authority should decide both by appeal and by appeal, not by leaving them with discretionary right to decide. Why? As a party to the administrative procedure, we expect efficiency from the governing body. We expect speed, of course we expect what includes both the parameters of the profession and the professional references. That the administrative act is based on the law and on the actual structure, but we expect it to be resolved as soon as possible. We don't have defined, clearly and precisely defined deadlines here that will decide as quickly as possible, both by appeal and by appeal. Not everywhere, but in these particular parts I'm talking about, I really didn't notice that this deadline exists. For example, when declared for failure to comply with contractual obligations, Article 25. Then, when declared against an administrative action in Article 28, in the provision of public services in Article 31. It should also provide for a duty, not a discretionary right of the authority to grant the case to another authority unless it has been found not to be competent. When does this happen? It happens when you or I, as citizens, submit a request to a management body that is indeed competent, and he, during the procedure, determines that another body is competent and that the law states that it can be subject to another body if it is more effective, faster and more practical for the party. We in the SPS parliamentary group are asking a question – why can't it, why doesn't it? That is, it may need to be converted into a duty, which means it cannot, but must deliver the case to the competent authority which will, of course, implement the administrative procedure more quickly, more effectively and naturally more useful for the party participating in the procedure. It is a good solution, Your Honor, that in a conflict of jurisdiction is resolved within a very short period of time, it is in the interest of the party. It's perfectly fine that you've defined that 15-day deadline. It's a good solution to decide the exemption within a short period of time, it's only five days. These are some solutions that are truly commendable and we strongly support these solutions, these are the deadlines that you have set. A good solution is to establish law and legal traffic between the authorities and the party by e-mail. Why? Because it makes it in a practical sense to say far faster communication. This legal traffic between the administrative authority and the party is no doubt faster and more practical if it goes by electronic means, no doubt. We really support such a process solution as a very high quality. It's a good solution in a law relating to delivery. Namely, such a solution as you predicted doesn't even exist in the Law on Procedural Procedure, so it is believed that the act was given to the party if it was 15 days since the day the attempt failed, and this last failed attempt to hand over the party expired. So, from that day forward, the next 15 days when the party passes are considered notified and it is a very, very good solution and I think it should be contained in other procedural laws, not only in the General Administrative Procedure Act. A very good solution is that when the Institute of Returns is applied to the previous situation, which is allowed by a party who has exceeded the deadline, if the competent authority receives a submission within the next three days, it is considered that the deadline is fulfilled, a very good solution. Why? Well, I can miss the deadline, I'm just a citizen, I'm not like a lawyer and a lawyer, I'm a layman, and then I get into a situation where I pass the deadline for appeal. Now, if, within three days, I file that same complaint and I only make it possible to justify why I did not file that complaint in time, the authority will adopt a return to the previous situation and allow my complaint to enter legal traffic, that my appeal is processed, that is to say, to be decided and that is a very, very good solution, believe that there is no other procedural law. A good solution is to prove that the party, although it has also been contained before, is not obliged in a slightly different way, to obtain evidence, is not obliged, especially those evidence that can be obtained by the authority under official duty. That's how we relieve the party. That's how we help the party. And indeed, in this direction of rest, they can be very pleased with this process solution in the General Administrative Procedure Act. Of course, what was contained in the earlier provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act is contained and now, and here we welcome and support you, which is that beliefs, documents and all that the authorities normally betray, the party is not obliged to deliver. Why? Simply because the Authority does so on official duty and can then be found in a proof procedure, such as a proof procedure in accordance with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act. However, what I think you should consider is one fact that somehow the law imposes itself as a need to show itself, and that is to what extent will we avoid corruption if decisions and first-degrees, sometimes second-degrees, bring only an authorised official? As a lawyer in my law practice, I've met with various solutions, but this kind of solution seems to me not to be the best thing for the party because the head of the authority must always have both subordination and hierarchy in relation to the authorised official who acts. It simply seems to me that in this way it can come to the fact that this very authorized official has either some touch point with the party, or a touch point, conditionally said, or pesoriously, with the opposite party. We don't have that hierarchy with his chief here anymore. This could be examined in some disciplinary procedure or in some procedure to determine possible failures in the work of an authorised official, but in any case, it seems to me that the official who conducts the procedure should not at the same time decide in the administrative procedure, should not sign the solutions, should not sign an administrative act, administrative decision. It has to be done by the head of the organ, because it's the most responsible, because it's his function. That's why we think we should think about it a little bit when this law practically comes into force. At the very end, I would once again like to point out truly sincere support for a good law. Good procedural solutions will allow this law, of course, except in these areas where I have made certain remarks, to be very, very practical and favourable and quality when it comes to parties, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who will no longer have to suffer certain procedural and legal shortcomings in the current law and thus make their rights as effective and as quickly as possible. I thank you. I repeat once again that in the voting day we will vote for the proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51455	The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51456	Ladies and gentlemen, it is my opinion, Mrs. Udovici, that there are two words that we can call key words to understand the legislative project on the public sector wage system. These two words, to hear the MPs and MPs, are the impotence and intransparency of the government, whose member you are, Mrs Udovicki, therefore, the impotence and intransparentity of the key words of this legislative project. Mrs. Udovicki is, that's what we all had the opportunity to hear here, suggested, and Mr. Arsic, on behalf of the SNS, supported, that the provisions of the public sector pay system law do not apply to employees in public enterprises, which was already spoken of, but it is necessary for me to stay here, as Mr. Arsic did. Well, public enterprises, we've all agreed here, and the minister said so, both ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and the MPs are pillars of an unfair partocratic system in our country. And now, with this final view of Article 1 of this legislative project, Mrs. Udovici, that part-departmental pillar in our country is being strengthened. That's my judgment. Legislative projects that strengthen partocrats, respected gentlemen, reveal one poor government's inability to bring key pay distribution generators in the public sector and non-transparent spending of public money and employment into order. Dear gentlemen, we are dealing with a government that is powerless to establish order here and which is powerless to ensure the functioning of the principle of transparency when public sector wages are arranged, in public enterprises, that is, spending public money, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Marinkovic here also discussed and said – no, no, no, this is a legislative project that strengthens reforms...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51457	Mr Pavicevic, I would only ask you, since you are not a representative of the promoter to comment now and mention the order of the MPs, to focus on the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51458	This is a debate, Parliament, Mr. Becic. This is not the Central Committee of the Communist Union. This is the Council of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51459	Mr Pavicevic, I am directed by the Rules of Procedure not to allow you to cause replicas now, referring to the order of all MPs, but to focus on the statement of the law. Will you do that much for me?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51460	One question to Mrs. Widowsky, if you don't allow us to discuss each other, only with the representatives of the government. Mrs. Udovicki, whom I have already made several remarks about this legislative project...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51461	Mr Pavicevic, it is not a matter of whether or not I allow or not, you must not speak directly to other MPs under the Rules of Procedure, but rather to me as chairman and, in this case, to Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51462	I didn't. I told you, as Mr. Vladimir Marinkovic of the SDPS said. I hope I get a straight line. So, Mrs. Udovicki, the question – what kind of reforms can we talk about at night sessions at a deaf time of night? Mrs. Widowsky, this isn't the first time. We are now talking about public sector salaries at the deaf time of night, at night sessions, after we had one night session and at the deaf time of night, at four in the morning, at half five in the morning, we talked about public enterprises and the new Law on Public Enterprises. Dear gentlemen, about government affairs, I mean, we should talk day and day. State affairs, gentlemen, to perform by day, in bright light and sunlight, and not in small hours of the night, as it is done here, gentlemen. It is a comment on this first legislative project. Another legislative project, the draft law on general administrative procedure, which he spoke of, if I may say so, Mr. Neđo Jovanovic, is one system law, a procedural character, a large number of people will apply it. It's about a new concept. We have a new kind of contract, administrative contracts, e.g. I wonder, then, Mrs. Udovici, is it appropriate for this kind of innovation to be discussed in this way and based on the government's proposal? The gentlemen mentioned, I think Mr. Arsic mentioned the Citizens' Protector, so the Citizens' Protector said...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51463	Mr. Pavicevic, let me just point out...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51464	I listen very carefully.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51465	The time that MPs have for exposure is won in the elections, not by you now mentioning a dozen MPs, asking them to have the right to reply and then they mention you, and you to speak again.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51466	My five minutes are worth two hours of the Progressive Party, it seems to me, Mr. Becic. Are you agreeable?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51467	Thank you. Time's up. I repeat, the time MPs have to present is won in the elections, not by mentioning 10 MPs, and by counting on someone to report and then having the right to reply. Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. The word is by MP Vladimir Marinkovic, a replica, Mrs Udovici, because it was mentioned by Mr Pavicevic. Also Mr. Neđo Jovanovic, but don't give Mr. Pavicevic any satisfaction and mention him in your presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51468	Mr. Pavicevic mentioned me twice. I don't see why he has a problem with our orientation towards development, towards creating a good environment, an efficient public sector, but also with the reforms we carry out 15, 20 hours a day. Where are we supposed to go? To the hiking, to the excursions? No, we're about to do the opposite. We'll work on weekends, we'll work tomorrow, we'll work on Sundays, as we've practiced for the past two years. As for public enterprises, the state's relations with public enterprises and wage arrangements, Mr Pavicevic is the last man I expected to mention and support the Octobering of profits, the makings of profits in public enterprises and that he will support a kind of so-called. A planical economy. Instead of encouraging these public enterprises to be profitable through corporate and corporate governance, to introduce professional management and better control, to be better, more productive, more efficient, he suggests that the state from a centre, from some ministry, determine salaries in these companies. These salaries should be determined through the results of these companies, through their business success and through their work and the outcome of their management, which, when we implement the Law on Public Enterprises, will be professional. It will be introduced, of course, to control the supervisory board that will control their work, measure their work towards results and only the market and their success should determine their profit levels. I think we all in this room agree that we should leave it to business results and success, not to some center.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51469	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51470	Mr. Chairman, Article 107(1). I think you had to react to the words of Mr Pavicevic, who said that some laws were passed in a deaf age by a new and in an extremely pesoretic way he referred to the sessions of the National Assembly. If this is a deaf time of night, and I think it is 22 hours, when most citizens of the Republic of Serbia can observe what is happening in the National Assembly, I do not know what name to use for some events in 2003 when the transfers of the National Assembly session were lifted, and that, regardless of what the colleague is now showing to himself that he did not participate, he may not have participated, but he did participate, and it was directly ordered, by his party president Mr. Zivkovic. What darkness existed in Serbia when even the National Assembly sessions, which could take place throughout the day and evening, could not have been followed by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia? What should we call this darkness that ruled Serbia? I think we've all committed ourselves to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to work, work at six in the morning and at six in the evening. The fact that someone is silk, so it's more important for him to go to the celebration, more importantly to consume some alcoholic drinks at 10:00 in the evening than he's going to do, than he's going to read the laws, than he's going to bring amendments or propose amendments, please come out and say you want to work two hours a day for a decent salary that we all receive as MPs, so let's see what the citizens of the Republic of Serbia say about something like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51471	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51472	The Serbian Progressive Party is ready, with deep respect for the House of the National Assembly, to work in full capacity both at full capacity and at five in the morning, and at five in the evening, and under any weather or trouble because the citizens of the Republic of Serbia expect us to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51473	Thank you. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Babic, and I also don't think I should give a comprehensive explanation since you said what's most important. Citizens expect us to work at full capacity in the interest of citizens. It is not a problem to work 10 hours or 20 hours a day, if it is in the interest of Serbian citizens. Who doesn't want to work in the interests of the citizens and spend the time citizens ask him to spend in the Assembly, he doesn't have to be here. The word has a People's MP, Nedjo Jovanovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51474	I thank you, Chairman. It is true, my name and name are mentioned, which I will not do, because no MP, in any case, will be able to devalue or devalue what the MP group of SPS through me pointed out in relation to the law we are discussing. I still feel that this law deserves strong support, including the procedural and legal institute that one of the speakers before me has called, which is a contract, which I deliberately apostropheed here and everything I said, the Honorable Minister, went exclusively towards well-intentioned suggestions, in order to improve the quality of the law, which I, as a national MP, do. Whether we will discuss such procedural and legal solutions in 22 hours later, it does not matter how important it is that in this discussion, we find the best solutions in this debate, because we ask these best solutions in the interests of the citizens, and the citizens expect us to pass quality laws that are practically applicable. I am not sure that only by criticism, without justification, especially by fact, and I am not talking about a legal one, one who has no profession and professional reference to speak about the legal aspects of this law, then should not even speak about this law, and I have a lot of rights, and I am very pleased that on behalf of the SPS Group I can do so. I am convinced that you will contribute, not only this part of the public sector, but the judiciary also experience an affirmation experienced by the public sector, because as my distinguished colleague Misa Petronijevic said, the past work here is much better solved.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51475	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51476	I wish the holders of the judicial functions had that same status. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51477	I thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. Mr. Pavicevic, you have the right to a replica, as you can see, your strategy has been half successful and Mr. Marinkovic has given you the right to a replica, unlike Mr. Jovanovic, which I thank him for, Mr. Jovanovic. Here you go, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51478	Dear ladies and gentlemen, of course it wouldn't be any problem for us to sit at night, if we were to sit at night. Well, yesterday was a Thursday respected gentlemen, there was no session, we could have started at 7:30, we could have started at 9, at 10, as it says in the Rules of Procedure, we didn't work. We haven't worked day or night in September 2015. That's why I acted here, so we can't at night's sessions disguise some things, gentlemen. The second thing is, I'm not going to mention the last names of the Members of the People's Parliament right now, because I can see that they can't be said here right now, but I've recorded a few terms here that I describe and evaluate the work of this government, members and members of the Government. One term is impotence, another term is intransparency, third term disorder, fourth coin of the night session, so are these coins and terms that we bind respected gentlemen to the word reform? Is that the contents of the reform, gentlemen? As far as I know, it's not about reform, and that's why I'm very justified by the power of argument, Mr. Becic, I'm arguing here tonight that these legislative projects, too, are being endorsed by the government's anti-reform orientation. Something happened to give up reforms except in the formal sense of a press conference or when it came here to the National Assembly. And, I must say, it's very good, I also think of our citizens that the legislative projects, the content of legislative projects, we don't talk at four in the morning, not at 10 in the evening, but as I said – under the bright sun in the middle...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51479	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51480	... The white days when the light shines...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51481	I thank you, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51482	... I think we all see better and we hear respected gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51483	For the sake of truth, Mr Pavicevic, you know very well that the Rules of Procedure have a certain period of time when between two sessions and between amendments must pass 24 hours and a session appointment, so it is not right to deceive the public and these are deadlines that have to be laid down by the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51484	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, so I think the only darkness that reigned in Serbia, unfortunately, is the government and the AP Vojvodina still. Well, in that darkness, between 2006 and 2012, only six years in the name of salary hikes, or more than a billion dinars were spent in Bojan Pajtic's regime. By a billion dinars, if you look at the amount of budgets for public sector employees in the AP Vojvodina, it increased from 2006 to 2012 a billion dinars. The government of the Republic of Serbia believes that the tenm euros had to be used in a much better way both in the interests of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, rather than in the employment of party staff of relatives or business partners. The darkness reigned in Serbia because Serbia has been expecting this law for 10 years. The former regime has been running for 10 years from a law that will define salaries in the public sector. You ran because it didn't suit you, because it suits your status quo. And now you, who won't vote for this law, and you didn't have the courage to pass any other law, say there's no reform here. Are the reforms that you spent a billion dinars on your party staff in the AP Vojvodina? Do you know better than the experts from the World Bank who gave confirmation, who gave the best characteristics for this law? Do you know better than the World Bank who complained about you gentlemen, who won't vote for this law either because they asked and expected when you led the government to pass a law like this? This law is reform law. We have the support of the World Bank, we have the support of people in Serbia for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51485	Thank you. The word has Alexander Jerkov, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51486	Thank you. The fact that the previous speaker says that by six years the salaries of a billion dinars in the AP Vojvodina have increased, so much in a year only in the NBS have increased salary expenditures from the moment the SNS deputy president was elected to the head of the institution. Over the next year, 100 people were employed and salary expenditures increased by a billion dinars. So these six years and these years, you probably didn't have enough time. In a few more years, there'll be a few billion more dinars. If Mr Babic or anyone else is interested in and employment in the AP Vojvodina and the way the funds and competitions that are scheduled and the funds that exist and the means available from these funds are spent, feel free to go to the AP Vojvodina website, please take a look. Every penny that came out of the AP Vojvodina budget is there. When he does, let him join us in asking Alexander Wolfie, let him say, here's not everything. Only in Jellyzara can he say how much the payments to the management of Jellyzara are and only let him tell you about Jellyzara where those people pay you next to him. It doesn't have to spread to other companies, let him just ask about the Iron. That's what I'd say, business for both of us, so when you're so interested in the data that exists on the government's AP Vojvodina website, let us be interested together in those data that the government of Serbia hides from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51487	The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51488	I don't think the esteemed colleague who used to speak before me is a math that obviously doesn't go well. So now, and here's how much I was able to calculate, as she said that 100 people who were admitted to NBS for salaries spent a billion dinars, or about eight million euros, I didn't know that all the NBS employees by this math that was calculated about as when the costs for Heterland were being charged, it is evident that the influence of Bojan Pajtic, he reckons, that each NBS employee received eight, nine thousand euros in salary. It's absolutely not the same and it's more of a result of that, let me say something and charge something. It's also part of Bojan Pajtic's policy, and I hate Alexander Vukic, and I don't know anything but force and fabricate some fake affairs. I don't speak casually, I speak on the basis of the AP Vojvodina budget, as the 2015 AP Vojvodina budget envisions for the travel expenses of Bojan Pajtic six times more funds than for the travel expenses of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. So let's see if that's how much it costs this trip to Brione or I don't know where, to those tourist destinations that Bojan Pajtic only visits. On the other hand, I'll remind you, I'm not going to speak in a flat-rate manner, but rather precisely, this is a report by the DRI that says – the auditor has established a number of irregularities in the province's government sectors. So the Vojvodina Assembly illegally, illegally, because Bojan Pajtic cannot otherwise spend a total of five and a half million dinars. For seven eight, she paid higher wages, the opposite of the job system, and for two employees... (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Time. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51489	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51490	Let me just finish my sentence, please. ... which retired, for severance, 94000 dinars were paid more than planned, etc. So I'm not saying flat-rate things, I'm talking about what the competent state audit institution has determined.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51491	The word has a minister. You'll have the right to a replica, but the minister's been waiting a long time. A representative of the government has the advantage. Here you go, Mrs. Widowsky.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51492	I'd like to answer two of the remarks. First, I should like to thank Parliamentarian Jovanovic for a very constructive discussion. Indeed, I must say, this ministry always welcomes comments and remarks. There's nothing anyone can do that's perfect, and it can only be fixed with more eyes watching what's done and how it's done. Therefore, there is no need to explain this well - intentionedness. You've listed a few questions and I wouldn't go into everything right now, especially in some cases I suppose there may be a proposal for an amendment and then we'll be able to discuss it, but I'd like to take a look at two remarks. One, in short, since we started this dialogue on the board, when it comes to the administrative contract. The fact is that under normal circumstances, the right to object is not the same as the right to terminate the contract and in some way puts the two parties in an unfair relationship in the contract. However, the assumption of administrative contracts is that they are not actually contracts between the two equal sides, but rather the opposite. In fact, there is a commitment by the administration to something that is needed by a foreigner. So the implicit assumption is that if something doesn't go well, it's actually management that doesn't do its part of the contract right. In that case, the objection gives the instrument, gives the party the strength to actually try to force the administration to do its part of the job first, and if not, it also has a legal remedy. The practice of administrative contracts is not yet so widely developed. I mean, when we talk about public procurement, they might look alike, it's one of those examples in practice. They are specific and may have a far more equal relationship than is normally expected of this instrument. But I would like more time to dedicate to the key remarks you have made and mentioned by MP Pavicevic, as the Citizens' Protector also looked back on it. The Citizens' Protector welcomed the reforms, solutions and norms adopted by this proposal for a general administrative procedure and the fact that it really is a good basis for the administration to transform, modernise and bring it into line with the European administrative space. However, he says, as you do, that we should take a good look at the issue of making an authorised official feel responsible for the procedure he is handling or for part of the procedure in which he participates and in which he is responsible. The fact is, this solution may also have certain risks, but it is also a fact that without this solution, we cannot be more serious about modernising and improving management, raising its efficiency. I'll give the simplest example. The one where, I must admit, I was surprised when I came to the place where I am today, that I, for example, actually sign every decision on the seal, the decision on the stamps made by my ministry, and that one is truly a formal check that the seal of an organisation meets exactly the requirements clearly prescribed in some regulation. What can I say? If I have to sign on the stamps, if I have to make decisions and actually answer and think implicitly about everything that 90 people in my ministry do, and even in some way, then even for decisions in organizational parts within my ministry, is it realistic to expect, firstly, that these procedures are going quickly and that solutions are being made quickly as necessary in today's modern world? Secondly, more importantly, when a decision of material importance happens, which I have wrongly, say, signed, I have apriori on my side of the explanation and the fact that it is possible that in the sea decisions that I make, even what is important, we can pass. In fact, it is a factual problem and I believe a very deep problem in deciding and sharing responsibility in our government, even throughout the government. The number of decisions the government itself makes in Serbia is simply too large to allow time and attention to really focus on key decisions needed time. Then what's going on? Since we all know that this is the situation, it would be really hard to force myself into some serious and, to put it that way, a hard way to take sanctions for making decisions like this, because we all know that too many decisions are made at all times. I think it is true that if we lower responsibility and if we delegate it, if we say that the officer is responsible for something, that it opens the door and the possibility that I can get an officer to say so, to make him sign something, which I won't be able to hold myself, or no one will be able to hold me responsible. First, this officer needs and can go to the professional administration and has a cure to require protection from this type of pressure. Two, how many such situations and risks are in comparison with the risks that exist, or at the price that we pay every day for the inefficientness of the administration, in which at the end of the day, a very small number of people correspond to each decision. We have to ask ourselves that. Now, the solution that exists in modern countries, in the European administrative space, without any dilemma, is the responsibility of the official person. That solution must go with a number of other solutions that this law also assumes. Can he open the door for abuse if we don't make progress in the professionalization of the administration? You got it. What's the solution, what decision to make at this point? I think we need to work on the professionalization of the administration. We also have to assume that we should make clear what it is yet to be done in order for this solution to actually increase the responsibility of the administration and increase the efficiency of the work of the administration, and then keep an eye on it even if there are other conditions that this law does not assume, and if there is an abuse to a greater extent than there is an increase in efficiency and accountability. We have to point to that very strongly. Fortunately, first and foremost the Office of the Protectors of Citizens, as well as civil society in Serbia, are strong, are able to monitor, but we must strengthen our supervision and that is one of the key conditions for this solution to work, so to speak. When I tell you, I'm talking about the people in charge. Responsibility doesn't have to be transferred to the clerk in general. So, on major issues, key issues, strategic issues, the manager must retain responsibility or part of responsibility in decision-making on cases, and there is no dilemma. Only, in our opinion, risk exists, concern is legitimate, but if we have decided to reform Serbia, this is a necessary step, and the answer to this risk is to further establish and strengthen monitoring mechanisms, so to speak, monitoring and distribution of competences and implementation and decision-making in public administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51493	Thank you, Madam Minister. Mrs. Jerkov, you have the right to a replica, but I'd like to ask you, since we're back in the debate, if you can give up, even though you have the right. You want to do it anyway? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51494	I can't because it's unusually important. This information on the government of Vojvodina is available on the Government of Vojvodina site and is therefore not exclusive. As far as the Vojvodina Assembly is concerned, I do ask him to address the Istvana Pastor and the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, given that he is the president of the Vojvodina Assembly, who has his budget, in the way the congregations do it, but I have not heard only Mr Babić, what are the salaries in "The Irons", what did you say?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51495	Miss Jerkov, I would ask you to know by the Rules of Procedure, you cannot address another MP. Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go, replica. You're mentioned. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51496	Someone is very persistent, but I will be even more persistent, because the crimes that Bojan Pajtic and his regime are doing every day have to come out, and then I will tell you, again, this is the State Auditing Institution report. The total expenditure and expenditure that the province's government illegally and incorrectly recorded is about two billion dinars. Imagine, two billion dinars totally illegally spent and given, the auditor concludes in the report. In doing so, expenditure and expenditure incurred on acts whose legal basis does not comply with the applicable legal rules amount to as much as 1.8 billion dinars, in other words almost total expenditure, i.e. the costs of the accounts shall be unlawful. And does this Bojan Pitiæ know how to do something legal? Well, can she legally go to Brione, too, where she's going? Is there anything he can do, at least to children with special needs, and he took those 1.5m euros. The regional government, a union organisation representative, you know, it's those unions that come to Belgrade unions, whistles in front of the government, and then when they don't, then they're in Dubai, so we saw pictures, so they're in Kopalnik, so they're in the Maldives. These are the trade unions paid for salaries to the union organisation of the province's authorities and administrations at the Ministry of Education, which paid them 1.6 million dinars. That's how much it costs to blow up a whistle in front of the government of the Republic of Serbia, these Maldives and the Kopalniks are doing union activities.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51497	We have to get back to the agenda. You do, but because you deliberately challenged the replica despite my requests not to do so and the MPs want to talk about the agenda, I won't give you the right to the replica, if you insist I give you a break. [[Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: And do I have the right to a replica?]] The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go, Mr. Ristichevich. (Nedjo Jovanovic, from the place: Replica. ) You do not have the right to reply to Mr Jovanovic, you are not mentioned by the minister, but he did not mention you, that I would have the opportunity for a replica. Here you go, Mr. Ristichevich. I ask the MPs to allow Ambassador Risticevic to have a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51498	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you know that I miss someone today, as his friend says, it's a deaf age, it's dark, etc. I wish he was here. I hope no one stepped on his hand the last time he came out of the congregation on Wednesday morning and was again at some joy unbroken and with that in connection...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51499	Please, Mr. Risticevic, come back on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51500	I'm in the dark. With that in mind, given that he's a functioner and that his friend is a functioner and that this law says that he's going to be accounting for office salaries, I want time not to be spent on celebrations, at celebrations, no matter when it's a session of the National Assembly. We're not on the seabed here. This isn't a military deadline. If it was a military deadline and it was some of my peers at the time when it was mandatory they avoided it. I think that in the future, his colleague, my fellow farmer, when he talks about the percentages, the adequate condition of my fellow farmer, in the future, to calculate it in the gaps, and you who were present at the time, you know why. As far as the law is concerned, I will speak, first of all, to congratulate Vrsca and Kickindi on getting the status of the city. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: I Pirottu.) I'm from Vojvodina. We'll have a pyro later. Since I'd like to talk about the duchess government whose party wouldn't allow it, of course I'd like to congratulate Pirot. But the desire for Vrsac and Kikindu is, and so is Piroth, if possible, that these city municipalities be not only cities, but that they have urban municipalities in their composition. That what they get from the Republic goes to say with Mokrin and the surrounding towns, and that they set up city municipalities and show in part how the government is decentralised, because those of us who once advocated the higher powers of the Vojvodina, while they were against and were in the camp of the Duke of Paroška, with that black flag with the bones of beans. We have advocated that we do not replace Belgrade, Novi Sad, but we have already advocated that the government is being decentralised in Vojvodina itself, to reach the region, to reach the municipalities, even local communities when needed. My impression of someone living in the country that we should have more cities in both Vojvodina and Serbia, that we should have as many municipalities as possible. Slovenia has two million people and has 211 municipalities and I don't know any more administrative units for sure twenty, thirty, to two million inhabitants. Croatia has 550 local self-government, 429 municipalities and 127 cities, if I am not mistaken, let me be corrected by counterpart Blazic. Serbia has 174 along with 23 cities and the city of Belgrade 24, and now we're just coming to 27. We don't have any cities in the management district. Why would I want as many cities as possible? For the simple reason that practice shows that villages gravitating around the city are still alive. I want her to have as many towns as possible to sit down as possible, and since 4,600, she's been gone for 200. It threatens the danger of 1,600 villages, it is funny, but it happens in Vojvodina, every third house is empty, we have two and a half million households in Serbia, and three and a half million houses in Serbia. Of that, nearly 200,000 are occasionally or continuously empty, which in Vojvodina, which in Serbia. The smallest loss of population in the country is around cities. That's why it's my desire to have more cities, to be clean and orderly, but to have villages around them alive, to bring the city and the village together, because in this metropolisation as created by the party of the former regime, something has also inherited, the village population is simply vacuumed. We have three, four cities that don't lose the population, even though they don't have the talent to make it possible. They have no industrial support for a large number of people who came from villages across the city. Serbia lost two million residents per census compared to 1981, if we have a million Albanians who did not want to write, there are millions at this point, at least a million people less than she had in 1981. Industrial support in the cities that was in 1981 disappeared, no "dragon", IMT, IMR. In one space we have people, in large cities, I talk first of all, about Belgrade, Novi Sad, Kragujevac and Nis, and there are no people in the villages. In the villages there might be work, business, but there are no people. Where there's no business, there's people. The redistribution of the population that has been made, not only for the rule of the party of the former regime, but also before. He is directly Serbia's biggest enemy. At this point in 1,600 villages, last year, no resident was born. The average age is 59 years old, and I was already talking when those girls with the wipes on their heads and the corners in their hands died, when the blankets with the Serbs, the hairs and the hooks died, with the Polish tools, then Serbia will die. It's not just a matter of agriculture anymore, it's a question of the survival of the Serbian state. Nor economic activity, we must move as close as possible to the village, as close as possible to the place of production, develop energy, agriculture and processing and service all three areas so that what the father produces in the field, son or daughter-in-law of processing in the processing capacity. The money we allocate should be allocated for economy and rural development, but through the activity we share droughts, to raise processing cooperatives, coolers, to share packages, vacuums, etc., that we do not make only brandy from plums and fruit, but to make a final product and thus develop packaging production etc. Energy that can be produced from agriculture can also power primary agricultural production, but can only be made available from abandoned land. One hectare of miscantus changes 9,000 liters of diesel, energy value. So we can produce energy with which we can raise agricultural production, but also process what the peasants have done and thus raise the village. The fastest way to get them up there to the big cities is because they're big consumers, which is energy, which is what they feed, and that's why I'd like not to have, 27 cities now we'll have, I wish we had as many as there are in the units of Slovenia and we have at least half as many of them as there are in Croatia that has two smaller populations. We, however, give less social product, which is a tragedy for Serbia and speaks in favour of my fact. As for the Law on Officials, I am sorry that this law does not regulate the salaries of this reserve party's former regime, various trustees, protectors, protectors, deliberately speaking to a protector, is not a lapus, various people who, apart from having fat wages, are pulling money from projects, etc. I'm also sorry that the officials aren't covered by this law properly, because it's probably not possible, for the simple reason they'd like to explain it to me. How the official of the municipality, the province's vice-president of the former regime's party, the vice-president of the Vojvodina government and his government, could buy an apartment in Vienna of 500,000 euros, reportedly worked with other public officials in Jordan for four years, the man gave a statement. How can one official and public officials spend 12 years, how professionally they were hired and two years in the government of the duchy government, how can they spend four years working in Dubai, or Jordan? They were wintering in Dubai. You'll laugh. Officials and vice-president of the Vojvodina government, former president of the municipality of Goran Jesic, had wintered in Dubai, believe it or not. Now his leader, who Aleksandar Vukic committed for the New Year in Dubai, when he woke up, the president of the city committee to him in the Maldives, could ask my vice president how can he winter in Dubai with the salaries of officials, public officials? He literally said that in the halls, that wintering in mid-flight is a little "tub", not that it's expensive, he says, no problem, several thousand euros in one day, but says, the smell of freon and it was a trumpet to him. He stayed there so much and trained, of course, often in Slovenia, because our ski resorts were a little "bluding", and he spent time in office with public officials, not to mention those who belonged to public enterprises. He goes to Slovenia and skis, and he's been gone for 15 days. Now I'm asking the duchess and his vice president, why are they flying in winter and flying in winter? You want me to tell you? Because they're beyond the world. They're like some kind of nobleman. To them, it is “fleak” to fly in the middle of summer, they are “light” to winter in the middle of winter, because as officials and public servants, it is best for them to turn it around, for the space of reason it is more expensive. For those officials and public officials who don't know what their salaries were, it's stupid to have a little house and a little place, and by the way, because he's talking about me and the Duke's government, everything I have out there as the New Carlovians give to them, and to the people, but I'd like them to give everything they have to the people out of India, since unlike me, they didn't have anything but torn shoes and jeans in 2000, so I'd like to explain to us why it has to be so expensive and how with the salary of officials and public servants, you can buy a house on Tatar Hill, the one with a looser, a little less populated, I don't know what it't like to be called a Chardak, how it could cost 300, 400,000 euros, an apartment in Vienna 500,000 euros, how you can work in Jordan, and you hold a public office and you're getting a salary in India, and you know that you don't have to buy all the money, but you't buy the money for the money, but you't buy, but the money, but you's for the money, but you's you's for the money, but the money, but you's money, but you's money, but you's money, but the money, but the money, but you's for the money, but you's you's, but the money, but you's you's you's you's, but you's you's, but you's, but you's, but you know, but you can's, but you's, but you's, but you know, but you can's the money, but you know, but you can get the money for the money for the money for the money, you can's you can's you can's you can get the money for the money, you can's, you can's the money, you can't have to pay, you can's, you can't have to pay for the money for the money for the money, but you can', you can', but you can get the money for the money for the money for the money for the money for the money, you can's, but you can', you can', I'm the general object of attacking these various NGOs allegedly independent regulatory bodies. Speaking of officials and officials, I don't know how a functioner can afford a case like this (national MP Marijan Risticevic shows photos), it could be in Caligula and he talks about my culture. Is this the culture, that cohiba 200 euros, and for this person, I don't know if it's full-age, it was the minister of military function? Whether or not the salaries were public officials, I don't know, but in 2011, public officials had a gala party, just like Caligula, on girls were served food, which was previously cooled down. Were these the public servants that they left us, whose obedience, political obedience and multiplication allowed this kind of entertainment, to be used not by officials, but by officials in the judiciary, to serve grapes white on a girl? Grapes black on another girl. Are these public officials who are honorably doing their job and who are supposed to be the subject of this Pay Law, and do they talk about my culture that did this, let this work? Does this completely deny a woman's sex? I don't know what I would have done, I'm a Christian, but I don't know what I would have done, but obviously they were serving food, pre-refrigerating girls, if the dry-meat products weren't heating up. Are we talking about these public servants that they're going to defend now? I don't hate public servants. I want them to have a far higher salary. I want their salary to be a thousand euros, but that the wages of workers and the wages of peasants are thousands of euros, to be equal. In their time, the public sector lived as it pleases and privately as it must. When the money went missing, 781,000 were found in the public sector, of which 500,000 were officials. We have public servants as much as Montenegro has residents. We have 50% more in the public sector than Montenegro has residents. And all that's left of us, and the law on public enterprises and the bill on salaries, etc. We have to solve everything. In doing so, the elections are going and no one is trying to camouflage, no matter what we could do, instead of reforms and cuts that hurt to recommend two or three teas, but the patient will not recover from two or three teas, the nature of the disease determines surgery and therapy. And since the surgery was late, because generations of former regime parties did it in such a way and the problem delayed, now it's time for someone else to do it and not to lie to the patient about getting better from the sugar water, which one great man who no longer lives, and they don't know who it is, long ago they've left his policy, but that it's necessary to do this "do me". When money goes missing in the public sector, they're in debt on principle -- if you can't make as much money as we can, we'll be in charge of you. Just open shopping malls, etc. They wanted to buy everything, but in production there were 250,000 workers, they left so much. Wild predatory privatisation has established even more savage capitalism that has simply cleaned workers from factories, partly workers from the field, privatizing large combinations for 50m euros, 300,000 hectares, and thus expelled the stock fund and thus no longer reinvested in the country. Our tragedy was complete. As far as the village is concerned, there are hardly any dogs in which to bark or have no inhabitants or have nothing to feed it. And today we've been listening to their lectures. They had such a system where, as our people say, they planted a log and waited for the pig to pop up. Such a system is impossible. That's why the state was in charge and we had a supported state, a supported society, and the country's main product was long and it all came down to this government and the future government, behind the party of the former Duchy regime, whom we will soon see behind, all the rest of the works and the misdeeds that many future generations will try to pay off. And finally, given that my colleague is not here, I want them to have an extraparliamentary majority after the election and to have one five consecutive mandates in their shadow government and to remain remembered in parliamentary life as the first party, or coalition, as many as it was, four-five parties, who have wasted their censorship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51501	Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Let Mirjana Dragash be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51502	Thank you, Madam President. The Honorable Minister with his associates, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the position of our PG Boris Tadic – The Social Democratic Party – Together for Serbia on the proposal for a bill on the public sector wage system has already been laid out by my colleague Djurisic, I just have to point out in a few sentences what I think should be repeated. This law is long awaited and necessary. He was in the prime minister's exposé on the agenda of the law that will be passed by this government in the first 100 days, and we welcomed that a proposal was put in place yesterday at the cabinet's session and that today he was already in front of us to implement and give any amendments to be adopted by an emergency procedure. This bill has 40 members and each one has a legal institute that will be regulated by a special law or a sublegal act, some other, future, which no one knows yet what it will look like. This is clouding our entire law and making it untransparent. It is explained here why public enterprises are not included, but I must say that the position of our parliamentary group, that this law should also cover public enterprises and companies, whose founder is the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province and units of local self-government, the NBS and the Public Media Service. I would also point out that this law narrows down the rights of employees, such as sickness benefits and vacation benefits, because they are reduced to an average salary in the previous 12 months, leaving the average wage, whether the employee or average wage in the economy or whether it can be interpreted in various ways, since it is not fixed and not precise. No officials' salaries have been established either. We think they could have been classified as expected pay classes, because so many pay grade diapazones were given that they could have been included. For the time being, we will talk more about it when we consider amendments and when there is a debate in particular. As far as the General Administrative Procedure Act is concerned, I must remind myself that the current law, which was passed in 1997 and amended in 2001 and 2010, was a very good law and that it gave a lot of good results in application, but that the normal modernisation of the entire society and the need to comply with European norms, over time caused the need to pass a new law. That is why we have before us the draft law on general administrative procedure, and this law is very important. Most people say - refers to a large number of citizens. It applies to every citizen of ours if we have in mind to regulate the keeping of parent books, birth books, married, dead, keeping a book of citizens. There is no citizen who is not there and who has no need at least sometimes to obtain a copy and various other rights and other basics are for the contact of citizens, legal entities and business entities with bodies that have to apply the General Administrative Procedure Act. When the argument is read, and when I listen to the minister's explanation, the impression is that this is an ideal law. However, when it starts from member to member, there are these things that we thought were either to be explained, specified or otherwise solved, and that's why we submitted, our parliamentary group, 34 amendments. I now urge you to consider them well, because your attitude towards these amendments and the understanding of the amendments will also depend on our final position on this law. Some solutions in this law are really good, but I'm saying, we've had objections to some institutes and some indiscretions. I'll just list some of them. For example, in Article 7, which regulates the principle of protection of party rights and the exercise of public interest, we believe that it is not enough to say that the body is obliged to enable the party to protect and exercise its rights as easily as possible, etc., that it should stand there even faster. In order to achieve the effect of the law, it is necessary to enable the party to exercise its rights easily and quickly. The principle of assistance to the ignorant party is not necessarily implemented in this law until the end, because, according to our view, it is not only exhausting itself on the warning of the party and other participants in the procedure that it has the basis for the exercise of a right or legal interest, which the Authority has learned or assessed to exist, but also in the active assistance of the unskilled party to exercise that right and exercise. In that sense, we have submitted an amendment, which you will consider. Then, contrary to media announcements that the administration will provide official data on the facts on which the official record is kept, we have in the bill a whole series of situations in which the obligation remains essentially party. So, we appeal to consider our amendments that regulate and in a more precise way determine when and in which cases all authorities shall, by official duty, obtain data. Then, to Article 17, which was also referred to by my colleague, Ms. Nikola, the beginning of the legal fact of the administrative act, I would ask you to explain to me why and how the administrative act produces a legal fact from the day the party was informed of it, and not from the day when the act was delivered to the party? The notice may be in various ways, but it does not have to contain the content of the legal act. It is necessary for the party to get acquainted with the content of the legal act in order to produce legal facts towards the party. And in that respect, we have submitted an amendment. We also have an objection that the party does not have the right to terminate the administrative contract, because we believe that no matter how you explain it in this agreement the party is not equal, we believe that this right should also have a party in the procedure which concluded the administrative contract. We also believe that it is not in the spirit of the principle that you have declared this law a solution by which the party does not have the right to object to the administrative action. We believe that this is even unconstitutional, because at every stage of the procedure the party must have at its disposal a legal mechanism that will at least point to the errors or inconsistencies of the administration. And that's where we submitted the amendment. In the bill of law, you installed the principle of efficiency and economicity of the procedure and that's good, but why did you set such long deadlines for the conduct of the body? We think they should be shorter, as are the deadlines for parties. I would not now like to list all the parts and parts of which we have submitted amendments to which we propose to shorten the time limits for the conduct of the bodies, because we believe that this will better implement the principle of effectiveness and economicity of the procedure. Finally, I would refer to Article 217, that is, the last member, who says that the law enters into force eight days from the day of publication and applies from 1 June 2017. We thought it was enough to apply from 1 January 2017. He then says, in addition to the provisions of Article 9, in order to clarify those who have not deepened, that is the principle of effectiveness and economicity of the procedure, Article 103, that is to say, to obtain data under official duty and Article 207, which regulates the criminal liability, which will be applied within 90 days of the date of entry into force of this law. We believe that this 90-day deadline is not necessary, because these principles and these obligations, and even the criminal responsibility, can begin to apply significantly earlier in order to prepare the ground for the full application of the law. A much bigger problem with these alignments is how you will ensure the application of this law, because when we look at the laws that are on the agenda today, the Law on Employees' Salaries, it is our opinion, and I say it based on experience, because I spent 19 years as a graduate lawyer in local self-government on various jobs, that under these conditions all quality employees will leave, that we will have unprofessional, unskilled and unmotivated employees in local self-government, who will find it difficult to apply any law in the text that you have proposed or accepted our amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51503	Time. Just finish the sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51504	Just one sentence about the third law. As a peer, I am pleased that Vršac is getting the status of the city. I don't want to look back at historical development, and everyone can read it on the Internet, on a multi-national, multi-confessional and multi-cultural environment that's in Vrsac, but I can say that I'm ashamed to say that by the words of the promoter, it's happening now at the will of the prime minister. We've been fighting for it for over two decades. I ask – is this the price that the president of the municipality has moved from a group of citizens to a SNS to achieve this goal?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51505	Thank you. The word has Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51506	I would just like to thank you for the detailed remarks and comments concerning the General Administrative Procedure Act, which we will certainly pay attention to when we work on the amendments. I would repeat once again that the Law of Salaries will in no way, and it is not his intention and there is no reason for him to be a demotivist, on the contrary. And for the application of the General Administrative Procedure Act, it will take a lot more than pay. It will indeed be necessary to work both on training and on the true rewarding and distinction of those who contribute to the promotion of administration from those who do not give it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51507	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's MP Mirjana Dragas.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51508	Thank you. Dear Madam Minister, gentlemen of Parliament, the Law on the Public Sector Payments System is a new, unique and very important one. I, like our MP group, see something new and it certainly needs to contribute to the arrangement of this very important space. This law is very complex, as it refers to a very diversified system of work and work carried out in various departments of the state administration, the administration of the province, or local self-government, in other bodies and organisations and public services established by the Government. The salaries and earnings of employees in certain parts of the public sector are currently arranged by a series of legal and sublegal acts. The consequences are the lack of a system, a series of weaknesses seen often in different salaries for the same jobs in different bodies, even if salaries in local communities are higher than salaries for the same jobs in units were an autonomous province or even a Republic. As a result, we also have such a situation that the salary of the president of the state, the prime minister, is several times lower than the salaries of the directors of individual agencies, which is also established by the government. I think these are issues that certainly deserve attention and further proceedings in determining the overall wage system in the country. The significance is certainly great, the complexity is enormous, and even greater is the responsibility. The number of regulations has produced a situation that is causing major inequalities that cannot be corrected by individual changes in the law that exists, but by just passing a new law that needs to establish all of this, as a single system. I emphasize the word system. This law itself, however, will not immediately resolve everything, all the illogicalness, irregularities that exist, but it is certainly important to resolve these issues and conditions so that many other things can be resolved in the country and put in place. So this is a law that provides a process, process and movement towards the goal. It is particularly important that new laws, sublaws and other documents must be adopted in the follow-up to this process to address these issues. The goal we want to achieve is, in any case, that for each work, a clear value must be determined and a clear and specific salary. For certain work, there must be a certain profit which is, in any case, dignified and adequate to the invested work and its quality. What do we get? We get, precisely, in this entire system of quality, responsibility, expertise, for which there are envisaged and possible and professional exams, but also other types of obtaining certificates that can be achieved. In any case, what we all need is a quality state administration, not to have an administration that feels like a people's enemy. In any case, the number of regulations, which now regulates salaries and other remunerations of public sector employees, has led to inequalities in the rights that have resulted in a number of consequences, which are ineligible to this system, inability to control, not transparency, injustice. In particular, for example, there are ten different basics and for the spreads in salaries from 1 to 19. I'll remind you that once in the state where many of us worked, we had a pay ratio of 1 to 3. Of course, it may not be appropriate for the time we are in today, but during the year 2000, the increase in this difference between 1 and 19 is more than impossible and simply unsustainable. The people are not wrong about little, but about wrong, and that is also one of the conditions that needs to be fixed to right right the many illogicalities that have now been put in place. This law should also regulate, therefore, the salaries, fees and other receipts of civil servants and deputies, and in this proposal the law also defines how the wages are charged, i.e. a clearly specified formula. Some advantages, I will only mention, which this law adopts, in any case, is to establish this unique wage regime and promote a socially fairer model of public sector employees. It is expressed through a unique basis for all parts of the public sector. What is important is that more transparent public sector control is being established at all levels. We also expect more significant positive effects, especially in the least paid parts of the public sector, which are in education, culture, health and social protection, through further development of laws, which should be passed in this area. This new law fully establishes a single system of pay for all budget beneficiaries, i.e. all public sector employees, by setting general principles and principles for determining the level of wages and other incomes in a unique way. A fairer system of wages is established, single paying classes and paying groups are introduced for all employees, taking into account the specificities of certain parts of the public sector for which corrective factors are also foreseen. The system is transparent and allows comparison for the same and similar jobs, which is particularly important. The law accurately defines what the whole system includes and how to determine individual salaries in certain parts. It is established as a new workplace catalogue, which I think is particularly important, i.e. calling and positioning of public sector functions at all levels, which should contribute precisely to comparison, fairer evaluation and evaluation of each job. The criteria shall be laid down for the evaluation of operations carried out in an appropriate place of work, where jobs, i.e. titles and positions where transactions of the same or similar complexity are carried out, for which the same independence in work, responsibility, business communication and competence is required, are placed in the same payment group. Also, a unique system of salaries involving local self-government and autonomous provinces is being introduced, avoiding many existing illogicalities. In order to ensure transparency and comparable pay for public sector employees, it is also envisaged to move to a single base system for its calculation. This will make it easier to compare salaries in different parts of the system and will make it easier to control changes in individual subsystems. In addition to the unique basis, this law establishes ranges of paying groups and paying classes, criteria for the evaluation of jobs and general descriptions of working groups on the basis of which the classification of jobs, titles and positions will be carried out in the appropriate paying group or pay grade. Classification will be carried out by a special law which will regulate the level of the basic salary for a particular job, i.e. calling and position. The adoption of this law will allow for further independence and flexibility in determining the payment structure, in order to recognise the specificity of a particular subsystem. Here we will once again underline the importance of this system that needs to regulate salaries in health, education, culture and social protection, but also within the parameters set by system law. This law lays down the possibility for specific laws to establish and correct the coefficients which are achieved on the basis of permanent conditions for the performance of transactions or other permanent circumstances which arise in the tasks of the relevant workplace, which are not taken into account when classing into account. It is these characteristics that are important elements for the distinction, the determination of wages in those actions that are particularly sensitive, which are very important for society. Specific elements can significantly affect the position, i.e. the height of the salary, for example, the doctor or nurses in the health care sector, but by special law they must also receive on their specific weight appropriate to the tasks and responsibilities they carry out. We are certainly not satisfied at this point, and neither are doctors and health care professionals and nurses themselves, with the relationship that exists in this part, but what awaits us in the coming period, therefore, by special regulation of these issues, by a law that will regulate, for example, salaries in the field of health, that special attention be paid to this. In the field of education and education, too, proper attention and respect for the work of teachers and educators must be given. We today have different phenomena that occur in society, in general of the social system, which in a particularly negative way reflect on life, the work of children, their access to school and their stay at school. For this responsibility they certainly have parents and families, but surely they have the responsibility of both teachers and educators who need a role model and respect, that they serve the reputation of children who stay in school and that the goal of staying in school is work and learning, not other activities, and that we also ensure that children at school are a safe and accomplished function for which they are sent to school. Also in the area of culture, no matter how poor our country is, we must allow culture to have a minimum minimum of budgets in the coming period. No matter how poor we are, she must represent the representative of our national and national speciality and show our tradition but also our modernity. Only by cultivateing and nurtureing our cultural tradition with modernity and overall creation and the proper evaluation of artistic work can we ensure that we respect this type of work, that it respects us, and that it does thus affect the development of the population in the most positive light by reporting and developing to the people of high artistic and cultural value. I will remind only one detail in the devastated Athens, from mythology, from ancient history, when the guests of Sparta entered and another, how she lives or works, or how she is destroyed, they asked: How is it possible that in this completely destroyed Athens, theatres, public debates, and other philosophical stands and all that happened at that time in the public squares of Athens. The answer of the Athenian was- if we shut down theatres, philosophy, public debates, if we lost Aristotle and our other philosophers, we would lose our identity. That's why these issues for the development of these structural things are of great importance. I will only mention two more sentences, if you allow the chairman, that, of course, when I propose this, I have in mind the constraints of the budget, but again a fairer distribution can allow this kind of distribution in the next period, while, of course, what I would like to stress here and underline, and to welcome, is the involvement of the Social Economic Council, I consider it an important institution, the participation of the union, what the prime minister mentioned recently, the role of the NGO sector, which means, strengthening the profession, strengthening knowledge. I think that you Madam Ministry know very well how it is valued in the world, and thus we will return the reputation of institutions and states, continue to enable the development of science, the profession of knowledge, and the setting up of the pedestal of what needs to be a role model for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51509	Thank you. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Let the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51510	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honorable representatives of the government, or Mrs. Udovici, with a special occasion, I would like to welcome the citizens who are still following this direct transmission, if any. After all year and a few days, here's a chance to discuss your proposal, I don't know why you've waited so long, and I don't know why it's just the night before the election so big a rush that this one's on the agenda, since we only got it on the National Assembly site last night and we've only had a few hours to get ready. I think it's very bad that the laws that you said as minister are being passed in a hurry is, above all, a law that will bring order into the public sector. That it will introduce order when it comes to public sector wages, so that we finally know exactly what we're spending money on, how much money we spend, and how we control our profits, pt is very important for the public sector. I think, when it comes to your intensity, I fully support you. However, public enterprises have fallen short of the law. Why, we still haven't had a chance to hear that, except for your assessment that it's a market and that they're being paid in public enterprises by market means. How is it possible, then, that we do not know today how much the market has determined, when it comes to wages at "Smederevo Irons", when it comes to salaries in some public enterprises where individual directors have tens of thousands of euros in income. How is it possible to leave out such an important topic, which is why you yourself said you were bringing it, or to suggest, excuse me, this law. On the other hand, we have solutions that city transport passengers are paid as well as doctors in Serbia, when you know for yourself how many problems we have in the last four years, that we professional staff, those who are medical workers, are kept in Serbia. How hard it is to keep that enlightener who can't take his family to lunch once a month at work. How and how to stimulate them to continue to do their job. The best will go from public administration. That's what this bill tells us. How is it possible that we have come up with such a proposal that those most competitive in the labour market we are sending them a message here has no place for your efforts, for your work, because those who are absolutely not doing anything in the public sector are equally paid. You know very well that there are these cases. Especially under the key to party employment, where they only come to receive 30 or first in a month's pay. On the other hand, those who work zealously, regularly, who give their lives a working life into something they believe in and want their work to really bring about some improvement, they are paid absolutely equally. We think that way, those with experience, the real workers, we respect them. We think it's a very bad bill, because it's not worth someone's effort, someone's work, someone's results during the decades' work. When it comes to coefficients, it's completely understandable on one hand, both when it comes to basics and when it comes to coefficients how and how we get to them. On the other hand, we have corrected coefficients that you're about to establish with some new bill. And not only that, we have when it comes to other things that we sincerely hoped would be in your proposal, which are criteria, these are the salaries of functionaries, that's also that coefficient, so how and how do we now regulate the salary coefficient by new law? How do they pay for a clerk? On the night before the parliamentary elections, you did not find it appropriate to resolve this bill. Why, because they are choices. Because you need to disrupt this large party army that spends millions and millions of euros and that it's a very big problem as well as how to take away those privileges from them now. Because you know very well that they are the bearers of the SNS campaign in Serbia and in the field. I think it's bad for partial laws to bring such fundamentally important questions and that they are solved in one such way, and that, on the other hand, we are passing one law where the whole essence is revealed and where the essence is actually passed by some other laws. We don't know where it comes from. When it will be brought – we absolutely do not know. Which most of them will bring – we still don't know. The accumulation of functions remains in force so that one functioner of the regime can be on several functions and receive several salaries. We had a chance and we talked about it here in the Assembly, that only one of them, one of my colleagues across the street had five salaries at the same time and he was proud of it. He was proud that he was sure that he deserved that Serbian citizens work for one salary, that he was so valuable that he had five salaries. I want to tell you that I don't think that's the way you're essentially reforming the public sector, and that on that occasion you have colleagues who are carrying five incomes in Serbia. What's also very important is that there are still those who have incomes that absolutely no one controls. The budget of the Republic of Serbia is such, small, we are not a rich country, we are a country that has obviously decided to reform in one wrong way in Serbia, so that on the back of the pensioners, on the back of public sector employees, they will try to save something to invest that money on another side and some positive effects they see. What effects do we see when those who spend Serbia's resources in a very irrational way are rewarded by letting them out of this law? They have thousands of euros, they're on several functions today, and on the other hand, how do you explain to some pensioner that his right has literally been lifted because he's worked fair and honest for his pension? And today, the Constitutional Court is also insulting his intelligence by telling him, the pensioner -- you know what, it was a consolidation of the budget, and it had to be. I think that the neoliberal capitalism here has completely ignored the citizens of Serbia and I think that the tone of government and these so-called reforms that you are carrying out, is being implemented exclusively by ruining the enormous mass of people in Serbia. You have 700-800 thousand pensioners. You have those who will never be able to get to work. You have those in the public sector that are still being humiliated today. You have people's layoffs. You have those who won't be able to survive maybe next year. You have those who took the loans, and they don't know how to get out of them. Well, that's why I think this law is very hypocritical, because it doesn't solve the essential issues. That is why I believe that abandoning the essence of this law has led to a great sense of injustice among the vast majority of Serbian citizens. The privileges of directors and officials, we had the opportunity to hear it in this bill, and on the other hand we had the opportunity to hear when Mr Sertic, your colleague a few days ago. No one from the government of the Republic of Serbia, who allegedly reforms the public sector, reforming Serbia, will ever touch what is called public officials' privileges. In a way that this question will not be found on the agenda, but you promise that another bill will be passed in some future period, perhaps in a year, perhaps in two, perhaps never, a bill when we will solve that issue. I think it's very, very bad. Finally, we have one very important thing and one very important question – how and how do we control the profits that must exist when it comes to public enterprises, when it comes to the public sector? We have situations that are groundbreaking in Article 7, where I completely agree with you that everyone has the same basis. But already in the second article, you are insinuating what you previously wanted to suggest, and in a completely different way, you are talking about how, how, and how that base will be determined in certain cases. We have a corrective coefficient that again tells us that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will have new proposals with corrective pay coefficients when individual ones, only individual cases. This is all about how totally unacceptable this bill is to be absolutely in the congregation today and to be discussed, the night before the elections. In a few days, we will have called parliamentary elections, and we still haven't resolved the fundamental issue in Serbia, and that is the issue of justice. Why are wages and pensions reduced, and others are not questioned by the fact that they are getting into privileges? When it comes to criteria for determining wages, who and how they are measured, that is the basic question. Where, in which member of the law does it say who and how does it measure the criteria for determining wages? There are still a dozen more things, but we are coming to a key topic – how do we know in this control earning who actually earned it and who didn't earn the salary? Have you ever wondered as a official of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as a minister in that government, whether or not you have earned your salary? You, frankly, have been announcing to you for a year something that you didn't end up not doing. The results of your work will also be measured. But since this obviously won't be measured by parliament, because most in this assembly don't care, I'm interested in what you think and do you think you've earned your salary? I can also talk here about Mrs Jerkov and Pavicevic and many other MPs. To be honest, I don't know if we as an opposition have or haven't earned our parliamentary salaries, but that's what some independent authorities say. On one portal, the Open Parliament said that we may be among the best MPs in this house, so I can proudly say that someone thinks I am. But how and on what basis do you think you are? And, if you think it is, then it's no wonder that someone who works nonstop, someone who invests life's energy in their business, makes as much money as one who doesn't do absolutely anything and who's brought by one party to that job or that job. I think it's very important that, as perhaps the Minister, you say what these salaries are really like at the Ironworks. I don't want to bid and it's not a trick question, because I think that citizens eventually have the right to know, because they might stay awake until half the night wanting to hear about laws that really concern, among other things, and their money. Because to be clear, this is their money. This is not the money either you or your Prime Minister or the biggest party in Serbia. This is the money of the citizens of Serbia that you spend in a very, very nimble way, and that in those who spend the most money Serbian citizens here it is taboo topic. It'll never bring the government to the agenda. She promises, as you promised this law for a year. We have a problem to announce now some other laws that will yet solve the area. And why is that? Because they're the election and they're gonna be campaigners. Well, dear God, then they must be motivated by certain questions and participate in that campaign with that money. I think it's very bad, and I think it's been let down once again by the citizens, who have been given to you as your government, because they didn't expect that in this way, cynicalally above all, you would solve key issues in a country concerning injustice in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51511	The Republic has an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51512	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, someone said that we're taking money from the pensioners to allegedly fund a party army, and they're still bragging about how he deserved the money he got from the state, and that's where he came in ten minutes ago. He hasn't been here all day. And now he's earned his salary, and we're not sitting here?- I'm sorry. It's a privilege story. I'm the Vice President of the Assembly, and I took my car to the assembly session, and I'm entitled to the official one, while those official cars were pounding when they went to sea. They're talking about taking care of the pensioners. Well, why didn't they worry when there was money, but they dragged wherever they got their hands and hijacked from Agrobank and Development Banks, and from butter, and from farmers, and from JAT, and from the Railways of Serbia, from the same Sartide while it was still social property? And now they're taking care of the workers! Why didn't you take care of the workers when they had a job? What do you care only about workers who are in the public administration? You didn't hire them, did you? Is that maybe your party army you're defending? I guess that's just the way it is. Why doesn't he say he's moving around Belgrade instead of rubbing our noses here? How do you get jobs? How do customers benefit from their apartments? Nothing's been donated, nothing's been donated. It allowed the party to earn a lot of apartments, so one more or less has nothing to do with it. Well, that's what you were when you were in power. Save us God your cares for the citizens, for the state and for the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51513	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51514	I would just like to tell MP Bozovic that I don't think this law really understood, because it is not true that he will go away best because everyone is paid the same. Yes, today everyone pays the same in most of these 500,000 jobs, when the same job, regardless of their effect. However, this law is just introducing, firstly, the possibility of equating earnings for jobs and jobs that are the same or similar, and that by putting them in the same pay groups, and then making their employees and their impact different through advancement, through paid classes, again on the basis of what effect they have. I would also like to point out that it is not true that the law is passed in a hurry. If there's a law that's been done thoroughly, you're also objecting to the time in which it was built, and all this time it's been done in consultation with people who care most about it. In addition, an exhaustive public debate was held, a social dialogue was conducted, presented twice in this Assembly, once after a public debate one older version, then one really almost complete final version. I really don't see what's going on right now. It was a short period of time from the government's adoption to the debate in the Assembly. There's a strong and good reason I've already explained and I don't want to take all the time to repeat it. In the end, I think it's a complete substitute to talk about the pay cut that this government had to do to save the state from bankruptcy and that reduction has been done to everyone, including all the employees in public enterprises, and to mix it with this law that's actually a completely different thing. He is working on a long-term adjustment of profit relations and this is still very limited in the frameworks in which simple fiscal space is still very limited. We still have to reduce total consumption, not increase it, but we want through this law to make it possible in the future, although such a restrictive environment, to correct injustices. So, I don't think the discussion really was fruitful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51515	Thank you, Madam Minister. (Balša Bozovic, from town: Replica. You have no right to a replica. (Balša Bozovic, from the city: My name is directly mentioned. ) Mrs. Minister has given answers to your questions, in no way and you are not in a negative context to have the right to replication. Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go, Mr. Orlic, and let MP Milan Petrovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51516	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I support, moreover, the strong support of the laws we are discussing today and I declare the reasons for this support. So in the first place, when it comes to the proposed changes and additions to the solution of the territorial arrangement of our Republic, I consider it more than good, more than justifiable, a proposal to improve the status of both Vrsco and Kikinda and Pirota. In that sense, Dr Blazic, compliments on the excellently prepared proposal that came into this National Assembly. Indeed, I welcome, and for my part, confirm the good reasons that you stated in the material sent to the MPs, but also in the good reasons that you presented today in more than a convincing statement. I believe that, by adopting this law, there will be an open door for solving the problems we discussed today, and I want all the happiness and your place, but also for other cities, soon, very soon, to the cities that we are talking about today and to which this proposal applies, in those projects for new investments this year and in all the years that are ahead of us. When it comes to the draft bill on the public sector wage system, these compliments go to you, Madam Minister, as a representative of the government. So I consider a truly remarkable solution, an extremely important solution. The solution that is fully justified by that system component, the system quality that we are talking about today, which, however, are being held there and there in some cases disputed but very inconclusive and we will also come to what we have heard on the subject today. Why systemically? Because one unique and compact solution for this problem is foreseen primarily in introducing order through a system of unique basis for calculating and paying wages. We talked a lot today on the subject of what it looked like to date and what a colorful situation was, in many segments completely unpredictable, for many reasons it also caused dissatisfaction with the general public because it was not easy to compare, or what comes as receiving to a particular job, but what this job requires, or the effort to make, or the result that is achieved. At the very end of the orderly system requires clear, precise rules, something we would call both transparent and fair shown. That, I'm sure, is achieved precisely by this bill and justifies that system component or feature. Furthermore, both transparently and justly, and I also agree with you, Madam Minister, transparently and with the fact that it is introduced for the first time for the appropriate catalogue that should specify what jobs there are and what they mean. That black and white know what it means to work in this sector in our Republic and justice anyway. What I would like to read on my part only through the question of the relationship between the lowest and highest ones that are provided for this very proposal and which in its range is now, I would say, narrowly compared to what could be seen in this very colorful approach and very unpredictable practice as we have so far. Where's the righteousness in that? I'm reading it the next way and I'm giving it to everyone to correct me if they think I'm not looking at it right. When this range is narrow, all these values from highest to lowest are more closely connected and there is a certain feedback. Well, if somebody ever finds out one day that top part of that range should be something bigger, they'll pull more hard and everything else in conclusion with the lowest proportional upwards. I believe only something that will please those who today in this kind of sector, in these actions, belong to that lower part of the receiving scale. I keep it fair. Furthermore, I believe that it encourages both quality and responsibility in the business, precisely by introducing criteria for evaluation results and precisely by leaving space that what it deserves can be rewarded, therefore valued as something that deserves to go on, to progress, to build, certainly in accordance with what it is able to provide and to justify its work. Systemically, I've repeated one two or three times, why? Because that's how I get into the area of those comments we heard today. Well, so one referred to the issue of introducing the need to regulate certain issues by other laws, and it was called for as a certain lack of system. It's a shame, it's too bad that someone has certain expectations, so they say, what we got as a proposal, that's what we expected more. That's why it draws a conclusion, so we won't support it at all. Everyone has the right to their own level of expectation, ladies and gentlemen, but it's a basic logic to compare what is offered and what exists on the table with what has been valid so far. It is a great shame and not to notice all these good things that black on white exist in this proposal that I was just talking about, about which many today, precisely, clearly and honestly, I would say, by giving support to this law, it is a pity not to notice just because you have a certain expectation, but I do see it a little more clearly, because you need to criticise something at all costs, whether it is justified or not. It's about a certain one, too. I'll tell the nadal logic. If I'm not satisfied until the end, then I won't do anything. And we're going to talk about that logic even a little bit more in a minute, about whether a member of the law has this many or so pages, whether it's personal or subjective to the impression that a table is legible, we don't have to waste a word. It is completely unserious to discuss such serious matter as the legal proposal. But I understand that sometimes there's an inconvenience that there's something to be criticized, and there's nothing to say, so then we can talk about things this unserious. With a fence that I would personally refrain from pushing for something to criticise in a maximum number of seconds, even when there is no place for criticism. The issue of exclusion of public enterprises from this bill was mentioned and the question of why it is so. And, a very precise answer, so what we mentioned as an aspect that should respect market logic. Is that supposed to be explained in more detail? Is it possible that someone in this room is justifying the calling of a MP by persistently not understanding the need to respect the logic of the market? Do we want to form from public enterprises systems that provide some concrete, clear contribution to society? The result that is by its nature, the result that is being achieved on the market and that we are absolutely ignoring the logic of that market, so that we act as if it doesn't matter if you answer what is considered a demand, whether you do it in quality. Is that how you're going to make your income? Isn't that the elemental logic we need to satisfy if we want any system, any system, to be just sustainable, to justify its existence. I believe that it is and therefore I find it more than justifiable that the logic of the market in that segment is respected. It's completely wrong to allude to the story, yes, but that doesn't make equality in the entire wider public sector because a certain business with certain responsibilities here carries more money than some other business with perhaps higher responsibilities there and that we talk about that there's no equality there. What I want to draw attention to, the question of equality must be, I agree with it, but it must be supported by an appropriate logic. I was talking about the logic of the market. Let's move on. Why do we persistently view this as a lack of a certain limit that must be misused? Why do we insist on making more money now than it deserves? We can look at it from this angle. Well, nothing is guaranteed to these companies that we expect to prove on the market to justify their actions on the market. Nothing's even guaranteed. You can look at it that way. Well, what's defined here explicitly numerically, they can have fewer. It'll do less if they don't deserve better. Sure, he can do it one more time if he deserves it. It was completely unsettled, at the same time at the same time, at the same time, and certainly in the context of the same address and saying that it was completely wrong to insist on equality. Then we say – for example, now everyone who is employed in education, as well as all nurses, will have the same income. So wait, is it logical that at the same time we want equality where there are aspects like the logic of the market and we don't want equality, because we just want to resent the proposal. And this, of course, has its own justification. In doing so, there is no insistence on equality where it does not belong, but I have mentioned that the result is respected, but I have mentioned that progress is expected where it is deserved. What is also criticised very loudly, but without any understanding, is the question of those corrective factors in defining the coefficients, which we have heard today precisely because we have established, so that there is no insistence on equality where the result gives the possibility to make the difference deserved. I think it's more than clear to anyone who wants to understand, and we here chronically have a problem with the encounter, with the kind of behavior that comes down, I don't want to understand, and I don't want to understand at all, and I just want to tell you what I wrote to say today, which is certainly regrettable. As for this proposal, people will be demoted to work, less paid, etc., etc. It all actually comes down to just this, the inability to accept that a certain order is being introduced and that the results will be evaluated. Maybe it's because someone's used to working in a system where there's no kind of value results, and there's no, where some other things are more important and where these other things define and how who's going to go independent of the quality of the job they're doing. As for those full-on flats, I'm gonna dedicate a few seconds to them. It's comical, ladies and gentlemen, to mention such terms as political cowardice because of that nakaradic logic I'm not satisfied with the level of what was offered, I want more, so I won't do anything about it. Those who have not offered anything, who now first encounter such a proposal, who some solution to this problem see with their eyes for the first time by putting this bill on the table, then what they are, must be some term even more difficult than cowards. However, it will be difficult to find him, but I think he will consult some dictionaries, using it from time to time. It's funny, ladies and gentlemen, because that logic I wanted more, so now I'm not going to do anything, and we've already met her and when we've been promoting people's admissions and when we've provided one-time assistance. No, we wanted more, so we won't do anything. Well, imagine, please, someone who started the company and after seven days he shuts down angry, because he says - I wanted to be a millionaire, if I'm not going to be a millionaire, I won't even work. Someone who starts scientific work, then after seven days he says, "I wanted the Nobel Prize," and if I didn't get it by now, I'm not going to do anything. How long would society come, any society on this planet if that were the way to think? That's not what Mrs. Minister is thinking, and I agree with you, and it's gonna be that some of these things aren't understood, nor are they able to understand. If we didn't finish everything on this kind of good bill with criticism, I wouldn't let that happen. We'll finish the commendation. In this regard, when it comes to the Law on the General Administrative Procedure, I certainly welcome the intensity to introduce standards, to respect norms and conventions, to respect, above all, what we owe ourselves, we deserve a quality and orderly area, good laws, but it should also be respected, because it has an important place on our European agenda. First of all, we do it for ourselves. I'm going to single out only two good solutions that are particularly interesting to me and especially important and another component that follows them. So, two extremely important solutions and a third component that follows them and which I consider to be a kind of etalon of every good law. The introduction of the "one stop" system and in this area which is reflected in the introduction of a single management post and the introduction of modern modern solutions in terms of the introduction of electronic communication, when it comes to this matter. Why is it important that we don't waste our words? We know in what year we live and we know that we deserve the introduction of this kind of modern solutions that provide efficiency, reduce the costs of citizens in every possible segment, electronic systems in this sense represent a thing that deserves to be welcomed and commended, as well as the introduction of a single management post. What represents modernization and improvement of efficiency, which is progressive in its nature and certainly as an idea and as something we introduce to life, will always have unequivocal support for one whose progress is the main political focus. SNS, congratulations again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51517	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. The word is made by MP Milan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51518	Dear Chairman, Minister and Representatives of the Government, on the proposal for a bill on the public sector wage system, I am glad that I had the opportunity to present SNP views at meetings organised by the Economic Cocus. The blame we had in this proposal was on the value of jobs. We thought it wasn't the same to value the job of a driver in the ministry, with an ambulance driver, for example. I note that the same job title does not mean that the work itself is the same, actually, there is a lot of diversity in the working conditions that affect the work itself. The remarks we have made have been respected by the minister, and we believe that we have contributed to a better proposal for this law and a more equal status of workers. I am pleased that this bill is a compromise between the union and the ministry, i.e. the legislator of this law, and it is commendable that there is no disregard for the importance of social dialogue that is very important in expanding workers' rights. Such practice needs to be practiced more often, I agree. The abandonment of state officials from this bill, unlike the Slovenian model, is considered unnecessary. In this way, only their unsettled position is strengthened, although their salaries are financed by taxpayers and thus are allowed to remain in a privileged position with respect to other public administration employees, who are essentially business operators. If we're trying to level the pay, I don't see any reason why government officials aren't part of this bill. I'd like to set an example here. Do you think it's realistic that the prime minister, no matter who performs that function, should have a lower salary than the director of a public enterprise or the director of a particular agency? I would like you to clarify the same thing, what effect will this bill have on collective agreements in public enterprises, and can we expect to amend the Labour Law after the adoption of this law, for example in Article 3(1) relating to the right to collective bargaining? The Serbian People's Party believes the essence of public sector reform is not a reduction in wages, a long-term process or a complicated procedure, but rather a concern for the results of work that should contribute to better quality services in which citizens themselves will enjoy. In the framework of the draft law on general administrative procedure, we have submitted two amendments concerning better application of this law and we believe that citizens' notification must be made through recommended mail, so as not to be insecure about orderly delivery. Also in Article 161. The draft law relating to the submission of a complaint to the second-degree authority, i.e. the silence of the administration, remains disputed what happens if the second-degree body fails to resolve the matter and how will the parties exercise their right in the further process? We believe that the amendments we have submitted can help more seriously implement this law and I hope that they will be adopted. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Territorial Organisation of the Republic of Serbia, proposed by visiting counterpart Branislav Blazic, should be adopted in our opinion. These municipalities, if they vote in the voting day to obtain the status of the city, can only help them to make progress in economic and economic terms. We also hope that this will in some way prevent young and professional people from leaving our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51519	Thank you, Mr. Petrich. The word of the People's Messenger is Svetislav Vukmirica. Here you go, Mr. Vukmirica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51520	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, fellow MPs, the adoption of amendments and the addition of the Law on Territorial Organization, is a major injustice that has been done to the peoples of Kickindi and to all its citizens. The fight for the status of the city has lasted for many years, both through actions of various associations, petitions and various initiatives, and through lobbying in state authorities, and therefore merits belong to all its citizens. Getting the status of the city just confirms what all the Kickinians have always worn in their hearts and heads. For us, Kikinda has always been a city, and in this act they will be for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That's how many facts from the past and the present of Kickinda speak, and that's why I want first of all to point out that Kickinda got her first status in the city back in 1893. Namely, the history of modern-day Kickinda begins in 1750. The first settlers were Serbs, Austrian border guards who protected the border from Turks in Morish and Tisa and who, following the Pozharjeva peace concluded between Austria and Turkey, and the withdrawal of the Ottoman Empire from Banat, settled in an area in the Gallack Valley. The residents of Semak, Chanad, Nadrak and Obrižje, who are in our neighbouring Romania, were then inhabited by the people of Semak, Canad, Nadrak and Obrižje, who are now in our neighbouring Romania, and a few decades later, the Germans, Hungarians, Jews and French also moved next to the Serbs. Kikinda then became the seat of the Great Kykind District, as an autonomous Serbian territorial unit directly subordinated to the Vienna Court. It received the privilege from the Austrian Empress Maria Teresa on 12 November 1774, and the existing rights were established and extended by Austrian Emperor Franz Joseph in 1817. In its composition of the District, there were nine other settlements of Serbian border guards in northern and central Banat, i.e. Serbian Krstur, Josefovo - part of today's New Duke, Mokrin, Karlovo - the denomination of Novi Milosevic, Bashaid, Vranjevo - part of today's New Vienna, Melenci, Kuman and Taras. The population of the District had significant economic and political advantages within the monarchy, and the Great Kinkind District functioned until 1867 when Kikinda, after an agreement between Budapest and Vienna in the creation of the Austro-Hungarian monarchy, was attached to the new Toronto County, which covers almost the entire Banat. At the time with about 22,000 inhabitants, Kikinda was the most populated town of the Torotol County. In 1857, Kikinda received an active railway track from Segedin-Kikinda-Temisvar, and thus the oldest railway in Serbia. The school in Kikinda has existed since 1858, and the library was founded a little earlier, that is, in 1845. There is one of the few preserved horse-drive mills in Kikinda. The existing co-driver was built in 1899 and is the only one in Serbia. The first factories in kickinda started working in the mid-19th century, Danfil's steam mill in 1862, today's Viking mill. Bon's brick in 1866, presently Toza Markovic. I'm a pirate of a shoe factory in 1900, a former Hemik. Bon's iron and temperament plant in 1908, the Kikinda plant. During this period, by the beginning of World War I, Kikind was going through a period of rise and development and just then the city's core was formed, the busy streets that intersected at the right angle were given their names, and the houses were built planically. All of this says that Kikinda has always been a city in the right sense of words. After World War II and the modernization of industry, along with traditional agricultural production and export orientation, the standard of most citizens of Kickinda grew. In Kikinda, parts are produced for Germany's Opel and General Motors, so even one model of the car, Opel, named Kickinda. The factory's foundries were built in Africa and the Middle East. Tozin crep covered many houses in the old Yugoslavia. The housewives used Hemikov's liquid electron to wash dishes and work surfaces, and the shoes were cleaned with a well-known Kickindian ima. The best peas in Europe were produced in Kiking Pri, the PIC fed JNA, while the Chinese ham was eaten in the United States, and there were Banina products. The share of the municipality of Kikind in regional exports was over 90%, and thanks to this, Kikind in the former Yugoslavia in the 1980s was second in economic power, just behind Slovenia's Maribor. Then came the break-up of the SFRY, sanctions by the international community, and everything stopped and started to fail. We haven't had a chance to re-orient quickly and find a way out of the general crisis. Yet with the construction of an agro industrial zone and the intention of opening a free customs zone, as part of the free zone of Subotica, Kikinda is once again heading towards industrialisation. The light at the end of the dark tunnel is monitored and the chance is there at hand. Today, Kikinda is the headquarters of the North-Banat Management District, located in the far northeast of the Republic of Serbia, in the AP Vojvodina, on the three-way with Hungary and Romania and which takes up an area of 2329 square meters, and the municipality itself extends to the area of 782 square kilometres and makes it next to the Kikinda nine more inhabited places, i.e. Banatska Topola, Banatsko Velika Selo, Bashaid, Ijoš, Mokrin, Nakovo, Novi Kozarci, Rusko Selo and Fair. The Kikinda municipality has about 70,000 hectares of agricultural land, which occupys 90% of the municipality's territory and thus represents a serious potential in the area of agricultural production. According to the 2011 census, the total population of the municipality of Kikind is 59,453 people, and of the total population of Serbs account for around 75,43%, Hungarians about 12,23%, Roma 3.33%, while the remaining nationalities are represented at a much lower percentage. The demographic structure has changed the permanent migration and the already mentioned landscape and border fate of the Serbian people. The population was inhabited by Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, led by the Charnojevic family, and after the First and Second World War and Serbs from BiH, Like, Gordun, Banija and Dalmatia. By mixing cultures, customs, and lifestyles, a new Banatian spirit developed. A combination of plains and mountain ranges gave a different way of thinking, wisdom, tolerance, patience, and endurance in everything. At the home table today you can also find cherry sauce, pasta sweet and salty, pumpkin and mac specialties, but also pie with leftover potatoes, as well as stew and stew with already famous pig meat disnaissants. Simply put, everyone's welcome in kickinda. Thanks to its geographical location, Kikinda is a very important border centre. A settlement located at the border with the EU, i.e. Romania and Hungary, 110km from Novi Sad, 127km from Belgrade, 100km from Subotica, 69km from Temisovar and 84km from Segedin. The creation and opening of an interstate border crossing of the Nakovo-Lung near Kikinda has proven everything that has been confirmed for years, which is that this border crossing has a perspective for both passengers and businessmen, and that Kikinda is an important border centre of special importance for the Serb minority in Romania as well. With this direction, Temisvar is close to 20km for the people of Kikinjan and the residents of the northern and western parts of the AP Vojvodina, and thus the roads to the east and west of Europe. This border crossing means literally a new start for Kikinda and northern Banat, which directly opens the door to the EU. Kikinda has high traffic opportunities because it is located on the path of the future Banatian highway. The international railway border crossing with Romania has a freight port for transporting scattered and other cargo on the Danube-Tisa-Dunav channel, a sports airport, and over the Tisa bridge near Ade, this is the shortest route for parts of Croatia and Slovenia towards Romania, and further east and vice versa. Kikinda is today a regional and health, educational, cultural sports centre. He has a regional hospital and several departments of private, one home state high school, he is the organizer of a world-renowned international Vatican symposium of Terra, the International ethnouzicology Festival, has a professional theatre, a National Museum, a historical archive, a library. Kikinda is a significant sports town, with exceptional conditions for the development of sports tourism. The sports center "The lake", with the first closed swimming pools in Vojvodina, arranged open terrains and swimming pools, sports hall and the site of many traditional competitions and camps. In kickinda, thanks to the traditional swimming school, to know how to swim equally with the ability to read and write. Kikinda also has a judo club "Partizan", Serbia's first team champion since its independence in 2006, and in the highest-ranking competition in the Republic of Serbia, women's handball club Kikinda has been competing backwards for years. Also, Kikinda is the organizer of a unique tourist event in this part of Europe Days of Crazyer, honouring the pumpkins that the Kykindians had a special relationship with throughout history. The event takes place year after year on importance and quality, and the most insane of 504 kilograms since it was measured in 2014. The kickinda is the world's largest wintering ground of owls and owls. No one can reliably claim from where those owls came from right in Kickinda and right in the center of the beautiful Viking square. They are mainly seeking peace in nearby foresters and salads, and they found their home between two churches, Orthodox and Catholic, primary schools and gymnasium, cultural and sports centres and everything else that one square carries with it. By the way, Kikinda is also a place of recognizable architecture that won the first square, a walking zone in the SFRY in the early 1980s, for which an idea solution is...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51521	Please, Mrs. Rakic, allow Professor Vukmirica to complete the presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51522	... Professor Cakic received the highest Yugoslav recognitions from the area of architecture. There are also various events, such as "Wine Day" in Ijoš, the World Cup in the Easter Eggs of Mokrin, "Pitiyada" in Novi Kozarci, "Festival Gulaš" in the Russian Village and the Krajijski multicolor in Banatski Velika Sela. I would take this opportunity to point out a few famous Kickinians, who, by their work and accomplishments, have turned their attention to themselves and left a deep mark in our country's history. Among others, I would like to mention writers and poets: Miroslav Miku Antić, Dusan Vasiljev and Jovan Popovic, astronaut – Miroslav Južin; and in particular Pavel Kingelc, the first Serb, the theology, whose father is considered the founder of Kikinda. As you could hear, Kikinda has been the first in Serbia and the old Yugoslavia in many ways, and as such, she has gained the status of the city. But we Kickinians are confident and convinced that things will turn back to our side and that Kickinda will regain the old glow, and therefore a smile on her face, because we certainly deserve it. For this reason, I expect the support of fellow Members of Parliament, both in Vote Day and in all future efforts to implement the Project "For Better and Better Kickindu". At the very end, I would quote the lyrics of a beautiful local song, which in its own way gives the passengers an answer to the question of where Kikinda is. "When you go up to the wilder, in the middle of a field in Tullai, in the distance of the bark of the dog, there's a whole town." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51523	Thank you. The word is made by MP Boban Birmancevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51524	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister, respected colleagues, respected citizens, we do have a really necessary law from the law that we have been waiting for for a very long time, which removes all shortcomings, and there are many of them, precisely in the calculation of profits in the public sector. I remind the citizens, 11,000 budgetary institutions, that's a really large number. This law will return and pave the way for exactly right, right, fair and above all a transparent billing of wages. It is this law that will build this necessary base on which all those who want to work and make a fair living will be relied. I don't agree with the opposition colleagues who dispute, and they haven't presented any serious, not one, I repeat, serious reason to challenge this law. Every commendation is the work of this ministry, and it is this law that is based on a set of laws that govern the business of public enterprises, the public sector and all that is necessary to function in a real state where citizens know what they can and what they have the right to do. In local self - administrations, the wage range moved even up to 19 times, 1:19, which was catastrophic. It is impossible not to praise the solutions that will lead to those who work knowing that in the coming period they can count on promotion, and exactly what is needed, which is that everyone who works does not have to worry about their jobs, not just for the public sector, this also applies to the private sector. Good workers can be sure they'll always have work for them. I don't want to be much longer, since we've already entered into a few hours of debate, but what I have to say is that the general administrative procedure is based on everything the public sector needs, and as such it will, above all, give new rights and new opportunities to the citizens. Local self-government, the public sector, the state administration and everything dedicated to citizens is now becoming a service of citizens. Everything we do, we do exactly in that direction that citizens have their rights and have the opportunity to accomplish and do whatever they need. I especially congratulate the citizens of Vrsac, Piroth and Kickinda on the status of the city. Here, from the day of the vote, by publishing in "The Official Messenger", they will exercise the right to what they really should have years earlier. It's not about quantity, it's about quality, and it's about Vršac and Kikinda and Pirot have long ago had both quality and quantity to be cities. Finally, I just want to say that exactly the set of laws that we have passed and the laws that we will adopt after the amendment debate will just allow the best to finally go forward in accordance with this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51525	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Tanja Tomašević Damnjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51526	Thank you. Dear Madam Minister with associates, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, today we have before us a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Territorial Organisation of the Republic of Serbia, on which to obtain the status of the city next to Kikinda and Pirota, and the municipalities of Vrsac, from which I come. At the beginning of my presentation, I would like to present briefly some historical information concerning the town of Vrsac. The name of Vrsac according to written clues first appeared nearly six centuries ago in 1427, in the form of a sub-basement in a letter from King Gigmond. The area where two different economic areas, plains and Vrsačka Mountains connect, always attracted people to build their habitats, because the land was suitable for agriculture, vineyarding and livestock, vast swamps made it possible for rich fishing, and forests full of game were ideal hunting grounds. Today's symbol of the city, the Vršačka Tower, was created in the first half of the 15th century, during the time of the Hungarian government, and raised by the despot Đurađ Brankovic, after the fall of Smederev to defend against the Turks. By the mid - 15th century, this area has been known for its wines, which were among the most wanted in the Hungarian court. In 1804, the city was given the French Second Market Charter to hold its inhabitants bravely in wars against the Turks, and in 1817 it became a free royal city in the then Austro-Hungarian region. In Vrsac were created by the greats of Serbian culture Jovan Sterija Popovic, Paja Jovanovic, Vasko Popa, Sultanac Juk and many others. Although Vrsac has long become the economic, cultural and sports centre of the South Banat region, he currently has status, as well as some municipalities that are gravitating him, which are much more underdeveloped. With this proposal for amending and supplementing the law, this will change, which is a very positive fact, given that the status of the city will bring a lot of benefits. First of all, it is almost double the budget, which will allow it to invest more in the development of the city and create conditions for job creation, thus creating conditions for the birth of more children and thus increasing the number of inhabitants. In favour of obtaining the city's status, the fact that Vrsac has a good geographical position is located 84km from Belgrade and just 14km from the border with Romania, then developed infrastructure, economic potential, rich history and culture and multiethnicity. The Vresak City Museum has 280,000 exhibits and the largest Egyptian collection in the Balkans. The National Theatre "Steria", the City Library, as well as the high school high school, which was founded in 1790 by bishop Josip Jovanovic Shakabenta, and where classes take place today in two languages -- Serbian and Romanian. He is also the center of the eparchy of Banatia, which speaks of the spiritual significance of Vršc. In Vrsac is the Roman Catholic Church of St. Gerhard, the largest in Serbia, and the second largest in the former Yugoslav spaces, as well as the Romanian Orthodox Church, built in 1913 and today is the cathedral temple of Banatian Romanians, which are also the most numerous national minority in the peak area. There are 26 peoples and peoples living in Vrsac and inhabited places. Also, it is worth mentioning the peers of the airport and the SMATSA Air Force Academy, which educates pilots from all over the world. The city's development pillar has certainly been brought in by the pharmaceutical giant Hemofarm, which operates within the German STADA group, which is the leader of Serbia's pharmaceutical market with 17.3% of the stake. Taking up 79.1% of total exports of pharmaceutical products from the country, the executive company is also the largest Serbian exporter of medicines. Vršac has also had excellent cross-border co-operation with neighbouring Romania, whose cities he has participated in numerous EU projects for years. Benefit from obtaining the city's status is that the police, the prosecution, the court and other state authorities in Vrsac will get more jurisdiction, so the Vrscans will not have to go to Panchevo and do some major administrative work. This status also opens up the possibility for one of the 22 settlements to obtain the status of the municipality. This would open up national authorities' outposts, and there would be a greater opportunity for the development of agriculture and the opening of industrial plants. Getting the status of the city is important, not only for Vršac, but for the whole region, which will develop faster, better and more economically together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51527	Thank you. The word is a folk letter from Nevenka Milosevic, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Dragan Paulovina.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51528	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will focus my presentation on the draft bill on the public sector wage system, and of course I will support all three legislative proposals. It has been a long time to prepare this legislative proposal. We had a comprehensive public debate. A year and a half have just spent time, but quality, so all the interested subjects are respected, and I'd say unions. So today I am speaking in the principle debate on a good law, system-based, reform law relating to 500,000 public sector employees. It is this bill that refers to employees of the state administration, employees of the health sector, as well as education, social protection, culture and sports. I would only stand out two segments of this law, since we've already heard a lot of things in principle and I wouldn't repeat myself. First of all, the importance of this law is the ability to advance and evaluate work, and this will just bring about the possibility of having 13 paid classes and all of this in detail in Article 14, and we will have the opportunity, when we are in an individual debate, to talk about individual amendments, and the opportunity to further improve this law. The second principle, which in my opinion is extremely important, is equal wages for equal work. This is very important since I come, I would say, from within Serbia, so that all jobs are equally valued. It is good that we will have special legal solutions in certain sectors. I would take this opportunity to pay particular attention to the position of educators, because the salaries of educators are regulated by this law. We know that in the field of education we have the highest percentage of highly educated labour, we know the importance of this sector, of the education sector. I must say, this government has made efforts to improve the position of educators. We all know, that's what we discussed here, when we had one-time help, but also a certain percentage of the improvement. I'm sure and I hope that the pay grade will be a good basis for further improving the position of educators. Of course, I will support all three draft laws, and I would particularly like to highlight the bill submitted by our distinguished fellow MP, Mr Blazic, which will have the status of the city, which is Kikinda, Vršac and Pirot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51529	The word is made by MP Dragan Paulovina, and let MP Predrag Mijatovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51530	In my presentation, I would like to focus primarily on the General Administrative Procedure Act. At this time of debate, I think all the important issues that this bill is making have been exhausted, but because of its particular importance, because it is the laws that represent the main pillar of our administrative and procedural law, when it comes to the conduct and decision of the state authorities, the administration in Serbia, I would also state the basic details of this bill. The matter of administrative law is extremely broad and hence the distinction to general and special administrative procedures. The law we're having today's principle debate is a general procedural law that always applies when it's not mandatory to apply a special law. Therefore, in certain areas, such as the legal area of taxes, customs duties and other general administrative procedure laws, it has a subsidized meaning, which means that it is applied whenever a special law requires the need for its application to be complemented in certain parts of the procedure for resolving administrative matters in all phases of action, in order to cover all norms. What is the purpose of this proposal? We can freely say that the presence of the ZUP proposal is defined by Article 1 of the Law, which states that the administrative procedure is a set of rules that the state authorities of the province's autonomy, units of local self-government, businesses, institutions, etc. They realize and apply when they act in administrative matters. This means that it is handled by all public authorities, organisations, institutions, individuals to whom public powers have been transferred, etc., when, in administrative matters, they directly implement regulations in administrative matters, rights and obligations, legal interests of individuals and natural persons, as well as legal persons. It has been said that in the general part of the law it embraces and unites new principles. The principle of predictability that introduces the precedent system is mentioned, which is for the first time new in this legislation. The principle of proportionality implies a dosed application of legal rules in this area, as the state authorities act in resolving legal matters against parties only apply those measures that are more favourable to them and fundamentally, in order to achieve the objective regulated by law. The principle of the right of the national authority to exercise its official duties shall provide certain information on the facts on which the official records are kept. It's also one of the new principles. The mention was of an administrative contract as a special and new institute. He finds his application in cases of public private partnership. It aims to conclude legal transactions between public private and private legal entities in order to meet the needs of citizens in some important areas. This contract will give the citizens of Serbia great benefit because the general public interest is being achieved in this way, which is the essential clause of the contract, and is reflected in the satisfaction of the general interest of all citizens. The concept of a public private partnership is based on overcoming the budget deficit in relation to capital investments and today is a broadly applicable, system-wide approach, which refers to infrastructure financing. We conclude that the bill is in line with the new needs of the modern society movement, and in this regard exceeds the bad side of traditional public procurement methods, as it introduces a partnership on a large scale as a new form of management in the field of financial market development and project financing, just as it is in EU countries. We mentioned a unique administrative place, as a novelty. New types of communication for which the law requires consent and consent of the party in the process, because not everyone is equally trained to act in this way. We talked about an objection which is a new remedy and, if everything is successfully highlighted in the conduct of a particular procedure, there is the possibility of compensation for damages, which is a significant change for this law. The appeal as a basic remedy has certain rules, stricter than it was, so the ZUP proposal rules of the appeal procedure are now in that, if they are not found guilty by the party, they are respected. What's the most important? As stated in the reasoning of the law, the obligations of the state authorities and the taking of measures to monitor the state and application of the law, which is their key business. This is called monitoring the situation and it implies a rapid identification of the problem and their overcoming in order to implement a fundamental, broad and extensive training of civil servants with effects that will lead to better application of the law. I would point out that employee education is one of the general needs for the modern state administration, seminars, training, lectures should be more frequent and equally periodic, with the state official being tested after the end of education, in order to address the problems of insufficient understanding of certain legal and other concepts. I would especially point out the need for the specialization of a civil servant, in certain areas, and for those jobs that are particularly complex, because it is not the goal that everyone should participate equally in dealing with administrative matters with all their average knowledge, what the state authority is doing. Of course, to that end and to the appropriate stimulation, whose criteria would be laid down in a specific regulation, which would set a minimum number of overall solutions, as a basis for stimulation, because practice has shown that officials of different quality make the same profit, which is not a good direction, but as we see the General Administrative Procedure Act has reliable criteria for assessing civil servants, which speaks in favour of achieving more effective protection of party rights in the administrative procedure. It also protects the interests of the state and society. Based on this rather dazzling statement, as an SNS MP, I propose to all my colleagues and colleagues in the hall that they decide in the voting day and make their decision to adopt this proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51531	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Predrag Mijatovic, and let the MP Ljiljana Malusic be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51532	I would like to thank Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister of Associates, and the honourable SNS MPs, since there are no MPs in the room. This just proves how interested they were in this subject and how sincere they were in what they were saying during today. But that's how it's gonna go in the election. I will only remain, given that I am from Vrsac, at the Law on the Territorial Organisation of the Republic of Serbia and my presentation on the need to obtain the status of the town of Vrsac, I will begin with one wing that is often used by my fellow citizens, which is Vrsac – a beautiful town that symbolizes the city of art, business and sports. A city where great cultural creators were born and lived, such as Jovan Sterija Popović, Paja Jovanovic, Herceg Ferenc, Robert Hamilspil, Vasko Popa, architect Dragisa Brosovan and many others. A city that owns a rich museum lineup with over 280 thousand exhibits, which can only be measured with the National Museum. In its treasures, as the only museum in the Balkans, it holds a rich Egyptian collection, and the parent library has over 250,000 titles. When we look at the historical records, we see that in 1794 the Serbian and German Vrsac united, and then by obtaining a market privilege of 1804 years, Vrsac gained the status of a free royal city and became the economic cultural centre of the entire region. In such conditions began the bloom of many cultural and artistic societies of all the peoples who lived and lived there. It restores agriculture, develops industry, establishes continuity with its best cultural traditions. Today Vršac, also called the city under the tower, has 52000 inhabitants, in an area of 800 square kilometers and represents an economic, administrative, geographical and cultural centre for neighbouring municipalities of Bela Crkva, Plandište and Alibunar. It is situated on the edge of the Pannonian String and the slopes of Karpat, 14km from the Serbian-Roman border, 78km from Temisovar and 85km from Belgrade. As a center of the cultural educational region, it has a theatre with a long tradition, a museum, a number of secondary schools, higher education institutions such as higher education schools and schools of Megatrend University. Vrsca's special pride is a world-renowned and highly esteemed pilot academy, which today teaches highly skilled young pilots from around the world. From the domain of health, we have a general hospital where 110000 people are gravitated, then one of the three largest neuropsychiatric hospitals in Serbia, a home for old faces, an embossed food control station. In addition to these institutions, there are administrative institutions such as the Tax Service, the National Employment Service, the Agricultural Sanitary Service and the Municipal Court. Taking into account all these reasons, Vršac as a multiethnic in a multi-confessional environment is the economic administrative geographic centre of this part of Serbia and meets all conditions to regain the status of the city. I would like something else in the end because of the citizens of Vrsec who are monitoring this transmission to see that the SDS MP who is from Vrsac, Mrs Hasanovic, did not say she would vote for the status of her city, which I consider to be a disgrace and a disgrace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51533	The word has a folk letter from Ljiljana Malusic. Let Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51534	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, today I will talk about the draft bill on the public sector wage system. Someone said, "Why the system?" Of course the system, the state is building a system. If there was a system a few years ago, this country would be like Switzerland, and we wouldn't be fighting for survival. It's a shame they said no proposal, no nothing, but good thing you're going to, here's a room at 12, half one nobody. Just SNS. Well done, I'm saying this for the sake of watching. Just so they know what this is about. This is a great law for those people who want to make progress. No more catch, no more pay, come to work, drink a coffee, then go to a coffee shop, no more, no more exist in this country. Why are we passing this law? Because the law before this was untransparent, then unfair, where people's rights are. So, unfair and unable to establish a control system. Thank God, we've passed the Inspectorial Control Act, so it's going to be much better now. This law is mostly very good because 500,000 people work in state authorities. It's so much so that when I read the data, I just stopped and imagined myself above myself. No wonder we got to this state we're in right now. The natural outflow will do its part, no politicization. Of course, everything that happened happened in the period until 2012, and we're just working on it so it doesn't happen anymore. Why is this law good? Because it will be transparent, because it introduces a new category, which is a catalogue, exactly the sorting based on work relations and jobs. So you'll know exactly where, who, what he does and how much he makes. For example, there will be jobs and calls in state bodies, jobs in sport, jobs in education, culture, jobs in social protection, generic jobs that involve technical and other interests concerning administration. So one great law. What was not good in the past law was that rigid application, or centralisation. It turns out that this is not a good system in Europe. That's why we have another option, and that's semi-centralization, and that's how it's going to come through the amendments, through public debates to good law. It just didn't make sense to me that much negativity compared to this law, so if they knew better, they'd do better. They didn't know at all. We've made a good law. I'm very pleased with this. Through the amendments, we will supplement and adopt what is right. I don't understand how they didn't react when it was an economic cocussus. There were so many scientists, there were businessmen. How come the committees didn't say their constructive proposals, it just didn't work out, it didn't work out. This law is excellent and I will support this bill in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51535	Thank you. The word has a national MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51536	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister of Associates, fellow SNS MPs, since other MPs are not here tonight, I would like to point out that today, in principle, we have two laws in the field of state administration and local self-government. The first law refers to salaries in the public sector, and the second to the law on general administrative procedure. I would also like to point out that there are three municipalities before us and the Law on Territorial Organization, which was submitted by the honourable MP, Mr Blažić, and this is about the three municipalities, and this is about Kikindi, Vrsca and Pirota, who are about to receive the status of the city. In an exhaustive, detailed presentation of Mr Blažić, he also spoke in detail about the geographical aspect, the cultural historical aspects, the educational aspects, and the economic aspects of all three municipalities that should receive the status of the city. What I have to point out is that, with all these parameters, he speaks extremely emotionally, primarily as a person who comes, or as a MP coming from that area. Certainly, the reasons that he stated are well - justified for all three municipalities to gain the status of the city. We expect that by obtaining the status of the city, this will mean both economic recovery and further economic growth of all these three municipalities, Kickinda, Vrsca and Pirota. What I want to point out, as far as the General Administrative Procedure Act is concerned, is a law that has been almost the most important tool in the work of the public administration authority for many years. He was brought in in 1997. He survived a long period of time, but certainly this government wants to further improve the public administration system and, in line with the government's strategic definition of economic, efficient and modern public administration, this law is in favour of it. These are certainly the reasons why SNS will support this law, as well as the other law relating to salaries. What this law introduces as a newspaper is certainly guaranteed acts that are first defined by the General Administrative Procedure Act, although some laws, such as the Customs Act, then the Law on the Registration of State Ships, are also specified as a guarantee act. What I also want to point out, and it is in the interest of citizens, is a unique administrative place that will allow citizens, at less cost, to achieve in a quick and efficient way those rights guaranteed to them in the administrative process. There is certainly electronic communication, but before that, training workers who will work on administrative affairs, which are authorized officials. In voting day, we'll back all the laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51537	Thank you, Mrs. Vukoicic. The word is from MP Dusan Jankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51538	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, colleagues and colleagues, I will dedicate this discussion to the proposal for a bill on the public sector wage system. In fact, since I have been in a working relationship since 1980, I have been going through various reward systems, and they all had a lower or higher dose of irregularities, which in many ways reflected both the quality of work itself and the motivation for work. The bill, proposed by the Serbian government headed by Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic, is a system law that regulates, simplifies and unambiguously precises, and also reduces the number of rules governing salaries and other remuneration of employees, including in the public sector. This law offers the possibility of effective control, transparency and justice. It's also stimulating, i.e. provides opportunities and promotions in the payment system. This law clearly defines the base of pay. Also regulated is the issue of a basic salary allowance, the right to pay, as well as the right to compensation for expenses and other receipts. This law regulates salaries and fees for civil servants, weaves and tenants, detailing the issue of past work, overtime, work on holidays, night work, as well as the field allowance. This law gives the possibility to increase salaries for public services whose incomes allow and enable, and up to 30% per employee, and in higher education and health care without restrictions. This Law on wages and the Labour Act, which precisely regulates the rights, obligations and responsibilities of working relationships, are fully complemented and give an unambiguous and unbreakable continent, both in working relationships and in the rewarding system, which has not been a clear case in our premises so far. These laws allow quality work, high level of responsibility, time spent at work, school preparation, personal ability, interest and creativity in the profession to come to terms, i.e. to be valued at the end of the prize, i.e. they're legally stimulating. This pay law introduces paying groups and paying classes and offers currently the best solutions in order to make a fairer system of rewarding employees. This law is a skeleton, and sublegal acts that need to be contributed and will complete specificities in our country's award system. In voting day, I will personally support this bill and give it the highest grade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51539	I thank Dr. Jankovic. The word has a folk MP, Gorjana Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51540	Dear Minister, chairing, respected fellow MPs, my address concerns the draft bill on the public sector wage system. In the broadest sense, the law finally introduces order. The level of responsibility in the public sector is rising but the profit ratio is also being regulated. This approach is much more honest and honest with both the state and the workers. The proposed labour law sets out in 13 paying classes and these provisions will reduce existing pay gaps, which is one of the objectives to be achieved through the application of this law. Also, in order to ensure transparency, a general catalogue of jobs is formed. It will be the exact name of the job, the calling, the position, and the descriptions of typical jobs so that there will be no room for speculation and abuse in the public sector. In particular, I would like to stress that employees will be able to get a higher salary based on the results achieved and the work performance achieved above the normised. This approach respects the motivation and competitive spirit of employees, and as a result we need to get a quality productive, competitive, and above all a satisfied and motivated worker. For the Socialist Movement, it is very important that this law does not reduce employees' rights in the public sector in any segment, on the contrary, has improved. For example, compensation for regression and a warm meal have so far been presented within profit and have not been visible. Now it's being regulated, it's proving itself special. It should also be pointed out that the draft law on the wage system follows the application of the Labour Act. For example, when it comes to sickness, employees will get 65% of the average of 12 months of incomes they enter and additions that are provided for by the Labour Act. It is essential that through social dialogue an agreement has been reached and a coherent position between the government of the Republic of Serbia and representative unions, but so that everything is in line with budgetary opportunities. One general social responsibility of all entities has been achieved by this act. It is certain that by applying this law, we will be able to get close to the principle of equal pay for equal work. The Socialist Movement MPs will support the Law on the public sector wage system, because we believe that reform and much fairer than already existing ones. The proposed law once again confirms the fact that the government of the Republic of Serbia is running a socially responsible policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51541	Thank you, Mrs. Marinkovic. Mrs. Marinkovic is the last on the speaker list. Since there are no more statements on the lists of parliamentary groups for the word before the joint principled search is concluded. I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister, Dr. Kori Udovicki. Here you go, Mrs. Widowsky.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51542	I just want to thank the MPs briefly, I have to tell the SNS, because that's what it is, and I certainly see it there and, I admit it until a moment, it seemed to me, I thank the MPs of the majority for their endurance, for their attention, for their dedication. Indeed, I think that today we have discussed two very important system laws in principle, but I must also point out that these are laws that make great commitments before us. The job only starts when we adopt them, but at least principles and visions are clearly set up, and one part of the job is done by writing them and adopting them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-26-0.u51543	I thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Korri Udovicki. I thank the MPs, the MPs of the SNS and the SPS for staying for the rest of this debate. Further details, amendments to these laws. It's due Sunday at 5:00 p.m. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 112 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 96 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the next MPs, Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradovic and Miletic Mihajlović. We move to the 1st item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE PURPOSE OF THE PURPOSE SYSTEM IN THE PUBLIC SECTOR pursuant to Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly inform you that I have called for today's session to be attended by Dr. Kori Udovici, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government Milos Popovic, head of cabinets of Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of State Administration of Local Self-Government with co-workers from cabinets. Thank you. The word is made by MP Marko Djurisic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Gursich.
