ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6582	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 97 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 86 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I also inform you that they have been prevented from attending the session of the following MPs: Dr Vladimir Orlic, Aleksandra Maletic, Zoran Radojicic and Ivan Kostic. We continue to work and move on the search in the details of the first item of the agenda – PROPOSING OF THE SURVEILLANCE OF VIOLENCE IN THE FAMILY Consent to Article 90(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they have been invited to attend today's session by Nela Kuburović, Minister of Justice, Radomir Ilic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Zoran Balinovac, Assistant Minister of Justice and Jovan Ćosić and Zlatko Petković, senior advisers at the Ministry of Justice. You have received reports from the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as from the Government on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st Amendment in the same text were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojičić, Maja Vidinović, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komić, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Jesic, Dejan Nikolic, Veroljub Stevanović, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic and Tomislav Žigmanov. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word is Gordana Komic. Here you go, colleague Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6583	Thank you. Our proposal refers to Article 1(2), which exempts minors who commit domestic violence from the law and the fact that we want the law to be applied to minors who commit domestic violence, since, firstly, such practice exists already in some municipalities in Serbia. We are fully aware of how much it is on the edge, given the specific type of regulations that apply to our faces up to the age of 18, from 16 to 18, less than 16 and to those that are considered adults. We are prepared to listen to the Ministry, or ministry, whether persons of this adult age, who are perpetrators of violence, will be covered by some other regulations, so that they are thought to be left out of a law that prevents domestic violence. We'll have, unfortunately, we're absolutely certain that you have a minor who is the perpetrator of domestic violence. Then what happens in that case? We are also aware that, especially for minors, long-term detention sentences or special regimes do not produce good results, that a social group of returnees are born into criminal acts or criminal acts and violence and others, but it is important that we at least share the view here that we are aware that minors in families in Serbia are making violence. Then what do you do with the victims of violence and what about that minor face, because it's also a victim? This deprives itself of normal life when in the years before 18, violence is a way of expressing what it is his decision to seek a place of violence in the family, not communication. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6584	Thank you. The word has Minister Nela Kuburovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6585	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as regards your proposal for an amendment, as stated above all in the argument itself, is not accepted for the reason that the basic objective of this law, which is the possibility of making urgent measures, is not adequate for minor offenders, i.e. to apply it and to get away from the apartment. On the other hand, there is a Law on juvenile offenders who will be applied to them in any case if the perpetrators of domestic violence, which is specific, are right now taking care of the characteristics of minors, and on the other hand cannot be excluded from the application of the Social Protection Act, which also takes care of minors when they are perpetrators of criminal acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6586	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6587	This explanation given by the minister was acceptable that the primary objective of this law and this member is not to physically remove the apartment from the house, someone who commits violence. Of course there are other laws dealing with the punishment of those minors for these crimes, but the point is that the victim is protected. The fact that you may not have a solution at this point where they would be housed, they do not just have to be expelled, but they can be placed in an institution. I think the only argument is that it is not accepted because the application of this law is incompatible with the criminal status of minors. We're not talking about minors at all. We're only talking about those who commit crimes. They can't be protected because they're three months under the age of 18, so they can make violence against both the younger and the older in their home. He says, first of all, it would be inappropriate for a minor to be given an emergency measure because it would be contrary to his age. Why? If a home is built, if made at a police station, I don't know where they can be for 48 hours, to cool off, to leave the victim alone, then it's completely enforceable, and to be respected that they are young and that they have some specific needs and specific status in criminal law theory and practice. I think you should work on finding a way to get those underage faces thrown out, if they've committed domestic violence, to be expelled from the place where they've committed violence. Don't you have a solution for that at this point? I can accept that, but then promise me it'll be settled in some next amendment to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6588	Thank you. The word has Minister Nela Kuburovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6589	Thank you. I want to point out that the law does not provide for the possibility of you moving someone away from the apartment for 48 hours, but there is a possibility that this measure can be extended, that the distance will take 32 days. On the other hand, it should be borne in mind that these are minors, and these are not only 14 to 18-year-olds, but they include children up to 14 years of age. Given their specificity, the provisions of this law cannot be applied, and the Law on juvenile offenders certainly regulates the procedure and takes into account the specificities of minors, when they are perpetrators of crimes, even if it is the act of domestic violence.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6590	Thank you. The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6591	The amendment should not be accepted because it is directly contrary to the basic objective of passing this law. Each responsible government, and this government is responsible for increasing legal certainty through adequate legal legislation, and in order to protect each of its citizens. Legal certainty is provided in such a way that one legal act, or one law, is not contrary to another law, because this creates legal chaos. It is precisely because, for minor offenders, the Law on juvenile offenders and the protection of minors has been adopted, this proposed amendment is in direct contrast with Articles 91, 92 and 93. Law on juvenile offenders and criminal and legal protection of minors. According to minors, of course, that courts apply adequate protection when it comes to perpetrators of violence and, of course, it is provided through the co-operation of the court and custody bodies, and through the expression of the educational ones, and not these measures proposed by the amendment promoter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6592	Thank you. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6593	Thank you. I'll use the time of the authorized representative. So, we were saying, when we discussed in principle, it's right here with minors and this emergency measure is very awkward. This way we have one big hole in this law. What happens when someone's 17 years old beats their mother? I had a chance, an unfortunate opportunity to hear all the horrors that had been happening to this one woman, and in what way she was bending to escape from domestic violence. There was absolutely nothing that could have been done or done and that the person who lives with her in the apartment does it continuously, whether it's drug addiction or some other thing, I don't want to go into it, but in this way, with this emergency measure, I agree that we wouldn't be able to meet what the law's goal is, in this particular case. How and in what way will we solve such problems in which we have a case that someone 16 or 17 years old is harassing his mother, who cannot escape from domestic violence in that case, which cannot be saved by the fact that a police officer will determine a 48-hour detention or extend it to 30 days later, as you yourself said? For this reason, this emergency measure was very loathsome to us at the very beginning, because it does not solve the problem from beginning to end, but only in the case of adult faces. So we need to find a mechanism to prevent domestic violence, to protect family members in these cases that are not so rare in practice. It's always mentioned that it's, at least that kind of majority opinion, spouses. No, it happens very often that they are children, and in this case we cannot solve this problem, and in most cases they are constantly returning and they are constantly committing domestic violence and that we are not constantly able to find some solution that will eventually solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6594	Thank you. Can I ask the Minister to wait, because we have a few more discussions? In the end, we'll give you an opportunity to answer, because there are a lot of questions for you. Thank you. The word is by MP Sonja Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6595	Thank you. I would like first to wish the minister a successful piece of work. As a woman, I want to thank her for the law she passed in the Assembly and to defend and propose such a law against violence against women on behalf of the government. I'm reporting for the amendment. The colleagues have submitted an amendment to delete Article 1(2), on the grounds that they believe that this law must also apply to minors who commit domestic violence, especially when it comes to coordinating services in preventing and protecting victims. As for the material itself, for Serbian citizens to know, each MP receives the same material with the bill and with an explanation of why the law is passed and why. Taxingly, each member in this bill concerns the fight against violence against women is why a member is being brought. That is how Article 1 paragraph 2 states. – the law does not apply to minors who commit domestic violence because the responsibility and sanctions that can be imposed on them because of the violence committed in the family, the crime and the offence are governed by other laws, such as the Law on juvenile offenders and the criminal protection of minors, the Law on Violations and the Family Law. Also, emergency measures are not suitable for minors because of their age and legal status. It would explain why Article 2 was entered into so that minors would not be included in this law. I am proud that we, on November 25th, as the International Day of Combating Violence against Women, will mark it as the Union of Women of the SNS, as a day that is important always to be marked, but now we will especially mark it because the Government of the Republic of Serbia has first passed such a law on preventing domestic violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6596	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6597	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, dear Minister, fellow MPs, I will support my previous colleague, and I will not accept this amendment from colleagues who have proposed it precisely because we have already defined in one law how we are dealing with minors who are committing a criminal act and we do not need to accept this amendment here. The law that has been laid down, and today what we do, I will vote in favour of the law and all these bill proposals because I think they are the right laws, because we need these laws to come to Serbia to protect our family, and to protect everything that is sacred to us. Once again, I call on all my fellow MPs not to support this amendment and I, as an MP, will vote in favour of the law and all these laws, because I think that the laws proposed by the Government headed by our prime minister are laws that give strength to the better lives of all citizens of our Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6598	Thank you, fellow Miletic. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6599	I thank the chairman. Well, here's a pretty clear and clean situation, so an unacceptable amendment proposed in the text to delete Section 2. For all of these reasons that the government provided in its written reasoning in terms of opinions, and from what we heard from the previous discussion, I would just add that it is perfectly normal and healthy, I would say, that minors have a more specific treatment. So I think it's something that's logical, I think it's something that we need, so. And this guarantees the law as Mrs Vlahovic just explained, the Law on juvenile offenders who, in that case, are incompatible with eradicating this position as proposed by Article 1. Underage persons like I said have a specific role, have a specific treatment and a specific position. It was recognized by the law. I don't think there's room for any particular discussion, and we just can't bring them into an equal and same position with adults, so I think for all these reasons it's necessary to reject the proposed amendment, or to adopt the proposed law in the proposed text, so with the proposed solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6600	I thank my colleague Markovic. The word has a folk MP Ivana Stojiljković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6601	I thank the chairman, I would just like to supplement, first of all, because most of the previous speakers have said what is the essence, which is that this bill is primarily a preventive character and that it is very important that we protect all family members. What we have not heard so far, and it is important to mention when it comes to minors, to achieve a multidisciplinary system approach. In the case of minors, it is usually considered that they come from dysfunctional families, and the wider needs to be seen this problem and therefore a complete system is involved and all other laws apply. Of course, this law, in this sense, is not preventively applicable to minors, but it will certainly be protected by its application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6602	Thank you. The word has been made by Parliamentarian Olivera Ognjanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6603	I thank the chairman. I propose that an amendment be rejected by the said member for the simple reason that minors who commit a crime, that is, the act of domestic violence, a policeman who determines that act is not allowed and has no right to bring that minor and must inform the competent social work centre to whom he must submit the report. And we also know that the Law on juveniles, or perpetrators of criminal acts, applies educational measures, and if older minors are found to have committed a crime, then, of course, a juvenile prison is determined, with course always going towards applying educational measures on orders to rehabilitate a minor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6604	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ( ) Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Petar Jojic and Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6605	Well, we've submitted an amendment to the first term to define what this law is about, and apparently, that the promoter didn't understand, but he's made a phenomenal mistake. What can we do with the law? A way of achieving some human right. We can't interfere with the content of human rights. Is this a law on the jurisdiction of competent authorities or is this a law that has a wider character and should prevent violence and take action to prevent any harmful consequences or compensatory consequences when it comes to violence? We have submitted an amendment to specify what is the subject of this law in accordance with the Constitution, with international standards, and then we have the answer and from that answer we realize that we have no one to talk to. That they don't understand what the law is, how long it can go with the law, what norms they should be. Because if our laws are read, it will be seen that our amendment has been accepted and applied to the system that has existed for years. Unfortunately, there is a resave understanding of what needs to be regulated by the law, how it should be arranged and, of course, that this way that Serbia has been using for decades does not correspond to the way it has been used in the EU.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6606	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Srdjan Nogo, Bosko Obradović, Dr Dragan Vesović, Marija Janjušević, Mr Ivan Kostic and Zoran Radojčić together submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6607	As we have pointed out in the debate on this law in principle, this is not a law on preventing domestic violence, but a law that regulates labour and co-ordination between state authorities on prevention matters when domestic violence occurs or when domestic violence should be prevented. For this reason, we found it very unusual that this is how one objective of the law is in Article 2 because we have indeed said that, even under the current positive legal regulations, a large number of laws govern this matter and that the state authorities had an obligation to do their job and to act according to the law. Now, if the state authorities were ineffective so far, if they didn't know they were doing their job, if they didn't know they were being organized, why would they be passing a law that should make them respect the law? It's one big absurd, and that's why we thought that one such member was simply and excessive and only mocking the work of the state authorities. If we have to pass one law that we realize are inefficient, don't make fun of the law itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6608	The word has Minister Nela Kuburovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6609	Thank you. I don't think anyone's making fun of me, since I'm the name of the law and preventing domestic violence, it means it's intended to prevent violence from happening. Others mentioned and applied are just when the case of violence took place. So the preventive objective of this law is primarily to prevent and not to see what the problem is that there is a goal of the law, since it enables easier interpretation of other provisions. I think that both Serbian legislation and normative technique should follow modern European trends and that it is increasingly common in European legislation to appear as one of the provisions, the objective of the law, so that, given that it is new, it has applied that rule here as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6610	The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6611	I couldn't agree with this thesis, because I don't know that it's possible that criminal laws can prevent it. Well, I guess prevention is done by some other measures, some social measures. Social policy measures, economic policies, simple changes in the state of society, and thus best to prevent. And indeed, criminal policy is known when it comes, unfortunately when certain misbehaves occur. That's why I couldn't agree that this law has a preventive character and that it can stop and solve the problem of domestic violence. Then we could ask a question - if there was domestic violence after the law was passed, then who's to blame? So it certainly can't be the government or this law. Simply, domestic violence is a social phenomenon like you didn't eliminate crimes by passing the Criminal Code. So, crimes happen, and some other measures, social and social measures and economic measures, you can do crime prevention and change your consciousness in society, not one criminal law. So I couldn't agree with this argument. Secondly, I think the work of the state authorities is mocked, because they are being criticised and institutions are criticised that they have not done their job well enough. If they didn't work, then it could have been sublegal acts and other measures to simply make their work more efficient, not by passing one special law. I think that this, unfortunately, law has a lot of ideological premise, because in the next article you're drastically expanding the concept of family and partner relationship, but then there's going to be time to talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6612	Thank you. The People's Messenger Marko Blagojevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6613	Thank you. Only according to this amendment to say that I would disagree with my colleague, since the laws themselves have a preventive character and punishment as well. So they need to look at it a little bit and Ljotic was a lawyer and he has to look at it a little bit more and learn it because he's close to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6614	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6615	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I simply must say at first that as a People's MP, I would not support the proposed amendment. Namely, I would disagree if it were a mockery of any organ or any phenomenon in society. This is a very serious phenomenon in society. We're witnessing he's already taking his victims. It seems to me that this year, if I followed well over 30 victims took this phenomenon which unfortunately took hold. I'll just look at some local self-government data from Subotica where I come from. In 2015 and 2016, we had 172 cases of domestic violence. I wouldn't exactly say that what endangered the 172nd family is ridicule, or that anyone could make fun of such a single phenomenon. It's a question of hundreds of people. It's also true that anyone can be threatened in the family, but if we look at the data again, I will look back at the local self-government I come from, 83% are victims of the domestic violence of a woman. I know it's a law that regulates domestic violence and apparently women are the most endangered. But I would also like to have some legal proposal that we can protect other women, especially those who are hit by irresponsible politicians who are eager by percentages on election night and then are ready to withdraw all the funds against women so that they can soak up and find themselves in this home, and then, of course, fight for traditional family values and all that Serbia now has. I agree entirely with my colleagues is not a country characterized by domestic violence. I hope we finally get in the way of things like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6616	Right on the line, MP Srdjan Nogo.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6617	Mr. Arsic, breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 106. Sir, I really didn't understand what he was talking about. What does this have to do with how the SNS manipulated the election night of RIK? It was not clear to me, so I think the manipulations of Dejan Djurdjevic and SNS on election night are not related to the Family Violence Act. They are violence, but above the will of the citizens. So, I think you should have warned the man, and so Mr. Martinovic promised that polling committee and there will be an opportunity to talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6618	I really don't know about that voice theft, but I know what happened at RIK. All the media has passed on, everyone in Serbia knows. So the colleague who spoke before you linked that violence to the subject of the law. I don't see what he broke the Rules of Procedure. The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6619	I have to go back. I wouldn't agree with that if it wasn't for that subject. I keep telling you - 83% damaged when it comes to domestic violence are women, as a rule. I'm just making comparisons that it seems to be a phenomenon in society, especially when it comes to politics. The whole of Serbia has had the opportunity to see that the champions of individual parties found themselves in parliament by chance able to commit violence against Serbian mothers, Serbian women not choosing, and then enter parliament and fight for the so-called. traditional value, for Serbian mothers, Serbian women, as if it belonged to only them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6620	The word is given by the MP Marija Janjušević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6621	I thank the chairman. I'm suggesting a violation of article 107. The dignity of this house has been ruined, and our own, because the Dvori have been saying for 18 years that it is necessary for this society to turn to the family and that the family is at the heart of everything. That is why it was important that the president of this party be characterized as violent and persistently speaking about how the whole of Serbia saw it, and you cannot prove it. Repeating lies often doesn't always become true. We were simply looking for a survey board. You suggested, so you didn't vote for your own proposal, and we just can't provide most of it right now. Here, it is fair to establish all the facts and that what the whole of Serbia has seen, we see in this House, so that once and for all, we can clarify who the bully is, and who they're trying to make it out of.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6622	I don't know why you found yourself called, because at no point did a colleague who spoke before you mention you by no name, no last name, no political party, but there's something else I have to tell you. You'll hardly convince anyone, including me, that I don't trust my eyes and trust my ears, but you. I'm sorry. Serbia's Filipovic, a folk MP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6623	Thank you, Your Honor. This amendment should certainly be rejected and I want to look back at the reasons that those who suggested it said that criminal policy cannot deter violent people. I think they can be deterred especially by those proposed in this law because someone who sees that if he commits an illegal act to do so and responds and that there are clearly prescribed sanctions, it is nevertheless in some way an indicator and affects a certain number or percentage of potential offenders not to commit violence. I can also agree in part with the previous speaker that he is a wounded dignity, but her dignity as a lady by being a member of one group that came forward, so to speak, at RIK to another woman. So someone who uses violence isn't invited to speak for sure in this high house about preventing violence. First, identify yourself - whether you are violent or not, and then you will be able to talk about this equally with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6624	Thank you. The word has Srdjan Nogo. Are you looking for a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6625	Replic as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. It's just, first of all, I don't know a gentleman who used to tell me if he knew what Article 2 was about. So Article 2 states what the aim of this law is to regulate the organisation and conduct of state bodies. He wasn't talking about any protective object, or talking about criminal policy, so I'd have a colleague read the law he talks about first and then read the amendment and explain it and then possibly comment. As for violence and violence, I would remind my colleague that we don't send our own wishes, bells and others to the elections, nor have we ever beaten our political opponents. So it's simple, so it's known in Serbia who's a bully and who's involved in violence, and as far as the Dweri's concerned, we'll never respond to violence with violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6626	Replica, Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6627	Thank you, Chairman. Well, you know what you're talking about, it's just not true, it's notorous lies.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6628	Please speak directly to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6629	Of course. But certainly the whole of Serbia had the opportunity to see in television, in the news, on YouTube, all the printed electronic media what these gentlemen were doing, how they were jumping on the balcony, how they were chasing women in the halls, how after midnight they would rip through RIK to get some percentage to get into this Assembly. And since they were jumping there on the electoral commission, because they were attacking women, they're coming here today to talk to us against violence. It doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6630	Thank you. We're closing a circle of replicas. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Sreto Peric and Zoran Krasic. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6631	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, when explaining to a colleague that the aim of this law should be prevention, I thought that you and we from the SRS were somewhat halfway in the same direction, and then later I realized that we were not, especially when some colleagues who voted for your choice as minister say it implies that the law works preventively, every law. We understand that the family is sacred, and apparently, for a few days we've been discussing this law, based on these facts, we see that the family is quite endangered. In Article 2, we intervened precisely because you proposed, i.e. the government tried to explain by the bill who the authorities and institutions would intervene if domestic violence happened. We have proposed that Article 2 be made. The bill changes, so we had an amendment intervention, and that is by once again wanting to highlight the importance of preventive action in preventing domestic violence. It is essential for us to identify people who tend to commit domestic violence and thus intervene and, of course, the organs before they happen. Not our chosen officer, as you said, since we have a chosen doctor, he can always help. I think it was much more important for you to call yourself to the Istanbul Convention when this law was passed, rather than essentially solve this problem. I think we're really in a good way to explain that the basic meaning of this law should be prevention. And one person of violence, and one person of life lost, is a lot if both the state and any individual could prevent it, and then after that we will prescribe by law that is responsible to the state authorities and institutions that are competent, so that it will be adequately punished and that it may act preventively on some other perpetrators. It is already too late, and it is not too late for you to accept at this point the SRS amendment, which will continue to guide and pave the way well to reduce the percentage of domestic violence by a certain degree, but this government will have to act more preventively and to eliminate the causes of domestic violence.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6632	Thank you. Do any of the MPs want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic together submitted the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Anybody want a word? The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6633	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister, I want to thank you for accepting this amendment. Our wish was through all 10 amendments to improve. We believe that, given the situation that domestic violence unfortunately took place in Serbia today, the adoption of this law that should help better the work of state authorities is a necessity. I just want to say that I repeat that this law is not something new and something that is now the only mechanism that will exist only from now on in the national authorities to combat and prevent domestic violence, but is one help to work easier, to remove some dilemmas and to strengthen and show the state's concern for this problem. So we hope that the application of this law will lead to a reduction in the bad trend, which is an increase in the number of cases of domestic violence. We had about a dozen amendments, two accepted. We'll talk about those who aren't. We're glad you accepted these, and I think there was room to accept most of our amendments that you suggested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6634	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Natasa Jovanovic, Miljan Damjanovic and Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6635	We just wanted to say this amendment and influence the law to make it as precise as possible, because this law cannot spread the definitions of domestic violence that exist already in two laws. If this law should prevent, it should prevent what is defined by the Criminal Code and Family Law, and here we have a change of definition of what could be violence, not directly, but indirectly. The elements prescribed by the Criminal Code and the Family Law and as regards members of the family household and all those covered by that law are spread, which is inappropriate, because this law must not derivate those two who are much more important and which are much more significant regulations. I have to distract you, if you've already, and you've written in your explanation, you said that the state can interfere with these things because it has an obligation to regulate family ties, as you've written, you've now dropped the obligation to regulate and sexual relations, so you wrote in the law's explanation. I'm just surprised you didn't prescribe that the government is making a regulation about making love, because you're going so far away, you're totally unnecessary. You have completely forgotten that there is an institute – divorce. You've come into a situation because of some partner relationship, where there's no life together, but some emotional relationship, you're even creating a partnership relationship of family household members with someone who's dating another member of the family household. Do you have any measure of how far you can go? That's the danger of this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6636	The word has Minister Nela Kuburovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6637	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as regards defining the concept of domestic violence, this law certainly extends and is different and broader meaning compared to what is mentioned in Family Law and Criminal Code. You may like it or not the Istanbul Convention, but this unemployed assembly has accepted the Convention, so Serbia has an obligation to bring its legislation into line with it, which is why the concept of violence, in addition to sexual and physical, is extended to the concept of economic violence. What matters is that it is a broader notion of a circle of faces that are protected by this law, but by doing so, I don't think we are in any way jeopardizing what is prescribed by Family Law. Also, the Family Law itself is not fully in line with the Criminal Code when it defines the concept of family, so I don't know why this bill on preventing domestic violence would extend the circle of face to which this law applies. In Family Law, too, there is a possibility that it can be applied to people who no longer live in a joint household, and the same principle is applied here. So I think we can be consistent when it comes to the circle of the person the law applies to.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6638	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6639	If what was brought to Istanbul and here confirmed at the level of the Bible or the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, then interpret it, above all, as a warrant to amend the provisions of the Criminal Code and Family Law, not to introduce it through a law that should be a preventive regulation, which should prevent domestic violence. You do not have the constitutional authority to use this regulation to which, as you say, you want to regulate, above all, the conduct of competent state authorities and to allow people in charge, officials, to recognize what would be a threat to violence. With this regulation, you cannot compromise the Criminal Code and Family Law in any way. That's the problem, you don't understand where you're wrong. This law forbids it. And in this ministry, there is a tendency to do such things, even the Constitutional Court had to repeal two members who also came from the ministry, regarding the Law on the Visa Council of the judiciary, because they showed a tendency to go beyond the framework of the Constitution and to spread something by law and grab some jurisdiction. This law can't go like this, you can't change what's prescribed, what's defined. Criminal code says what's forbidden. Family law prescribes what is forbidden, and you cannot change those definitions, spread some powers, and in terms of persons who can be victims and persons who can be possible participants and perpetrators of something that is domestic violence. You are forbidden, forbidden, and do not call upon those declarations. If you're already referring to them, you're turning into a criminal and a family, not a third law to dissuade two laws that already have some court practice. Because of this act, the crime of domestic violence, and because of what has been prescribed by the Law on Prosecution, our courts have been struggling for years to apply this in a unique way and therefore there is such a broad and unconsistent case-law. There is now an even greater confusion in the matter of emergency measures. You'll see what kind of dance will be in the judiciary, in the police department, so I don't open up the issue of corrupt people in social work centres working on these jobs. Take a look at some court cases, and you'll see what all judges and prosecutors are trying to determine what happens in social work centres when such cases appear. Because this is a market economy and somebody's making money on this, you know. And in some of the sufferings some people earn. And that's why our disputes are like this. I warn you preventively, make sure you don't do any more damage in this area, which is both complex and difficult.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6640	Thank you. The word is given by the MP Marija Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6641	Thank you. The state certainly must respect the commitments made, but above all, the first obligation is to protect the family, and this law will obviously turn into its opposite, and in fact it will become violence against the family itself. I point out that even in Family Law, we do not have a precise definition of what a family is, so in this sense I will read how it is regulated in Republika Srpska, where the family is defined as a community of parents and children and other relatives. Republika Srpska has built a system of institutions that provides assistance, services and protection to the family, as legislation also found that the state provides special protection to the family. We'll deliver it in writing, of course, here. As for colleagues across the street, the more stops they have changed, the louder they are in repeating lies. Yes, the whole of Serbia is an attempt to make violence out of us. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6642	My colleague Janjusevic, believe me, I had to rule you out, because if I hadn't done that, I'd have to give you a warning. (Maria Janjušević, from the place: It makes no sense. I know you had to. That's not right. Does anyone else want a word on this amendment? (No) LJupka Mihajlovska submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger, LJupka Mihajlovska, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6643	Thank you. So, this amendment idea was to introduce, in addition to these definitions that were introduced on what is preventing violence and what is the immediate danger of violence, and the part relating to indirect danger. In the explanation of the government we received, since the amendment was rejected, and otherwise the arguments arrived at midnight, so we didn't even arrive adequately to prepare and give counterarguments. I can freely say, my assessment is that this whole law is quite concluded from the hills – from the valley, and I think that if it is adopted in this form, and even with these amendments adopted, it will be very soon again on the agenda, that it is changing and supplementing. You said in your explanation – The government does not accept the amendment because it is not clear the legal importance of the difference between direct and indirect violence. In fact, that difference in the law doesn't seem to be happening anywhere, which, of course, is not true. See Article 15. The bill, paragraph 4, which states: "if a competent police officer establishes a danger that is not direct", if a danger that is not direct, means that it is indirect, "all available information on domestic violence or the risk of it and delivers its risk assessment to the primary public prosecutor and the social work centre". So you haven't defined what a danger is that it's not direct. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6644	Thank you. The word has Minister Nela Kuburovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6645	Thank you. Just what you said, it's the danger that exists, but it's not enough to get an emergency statement. But there is a police officer's obligation to provide data to the co-ordination group so that it would work in accordance with its powers prescribed by law, and in that situation the only exception is that there is not enough ground for it to be given to a direct perpetrator an emergency measure of distance from the apartment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6646	Thank you. The word has a National MP Ivana Stojiljković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6647	Thank you, Chairman. I'd just add to all of this that we've simply played with words here somewhere, or the promoter of this amendment wanted to say by playing to achieve as some distance from the moment, means to achieve a longer period of time, to make a distance from a potential crime. So, what for every commendation of the bill's proposal is that from now on, even an application that wasn't estimated to have been warning, not to say rudely – false, as we have so far, not us, but simply categorized that a false application is possible, so it will be fooled and monitored through the record, will continue to follow that case. That's why we can't make a difference now between direct and indirect because every application will be considered direct. So it will be followed and no case will be ignored, as it has been so far, so that the indirect danger simply cannot be defined. Each situation will be considered direct, will be monitored, so this is a big deal and a major shift in this law which will raise the monitoring to the highest level and each application will be given importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6648	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Gorica Gajic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6649	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The position of Article 3 defines, in fact, the process of preventing domestic violence and that it is a set of measures that reveal the immediate danger of violence and the set of measures that apply when the immediate danger is detected. We've just tried to supplement the amendment here so that we can distinguish the set of measures that apply when we reveal the immediate danger of economic, psychological and other types of violence that are listed here and the risks, means that we recognize the risk of serious physical injury and the murder of the victim of violence. It's simply because we think it's necessary to distinguish those two categories, because we put this law on the agenda so quickly, so to speak, because mostly domestic violence resulted in murders, the death outcome of a victim of violence. So we simply say that there should be this set of measures that are slightly different, if you can even say that there is a more benign kind of violence. But certainly not the same, economic violence and risk, the potential risk of severe physical injury and the possible murder of the victim. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6650	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The People's MP Tatjana Macura submitted to the 3rd Amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by the People's Messenger Tatjan Macura. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6651	I, in my proposal, explained that the proposer in Article 3(3)'s statement failed, above all, to define what family violence represents, in which way, instead of identifying the concept, he moved to describe the act of violence, which introduced confusion in Article 3, although in the name of a member, he was determined to define the same concept of domestic violence. This change is necessary to make a distinction between the concept and the domestic violence. It is unclear why the proposaler defined the relationship between the perpetrator and the victim. The family law in Article 197 defines the concept of a relationship between the perpetrator and the victim, with the aim of covering a wider circle of persons who may be victims. This part of the amendment to Article 3 is necessary in order not to fall out of the legal definition of persons who were or were in an emotional or sexual relationship, regardless of the existence of a household community, as well as persons who have a common child, or are on the road, regardless of the existence of a community of life. The promoter has sent the following explanation to reject this member. Says – The government does not accept the amendment because the definition of violence contained in the bill is clearer, lapidarian and has a higher degree of logical cohesion. My comment on this is – the promoter refers to the degree of logical cohesion in defining violence, without noticing that the amendments proposed are complemented by family law, rather than by criminal ones, as the promoter misstates it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6652	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) The People's MPs, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic, together submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6653	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Members of the People, the Honorable Minister, we wanted to extend the amendment to this definition of family and to whom all, in which cases this law can apply and guardians, in accordance with the fact that the Family Law regulates the institution of custody and relations between guardians and proteges. The amendment was rejected with reasons for the previous amendment, proposed by counterparts Papuga and Lazic, who made a similar amendment. One sentence that is not clear to me, in that reason of refusal, that in the absence of these relationships, violence can hardly occur. But it can, hard, but it can, in some cases, still, and that is why we feel that this amendment should be accepted. It stands at the end of this last sentence – either according to the other person with whom it lives or lived in a joint household. We generally have this problem with these general definitions that are in the law. You count something, say in this article, you count all kinds of relationships, and then you say - or others. Our objection is that it then leaves one gray, undefined space, which is then everything else and on whom it is that it decides whether these other relationships are family or not. And then we look, sometimes it comes to us as a criticism of going over the law, so we want to predict everything, which, of course, is also impossible. But we think that this case, given that custody is defined by Family Law and that there are these relationships, unfortunately, it's probably in some families that the guardians aren't these faces on the sideline of the second degree, but that degree may be further. It may be rare cases, but we think it should stand in this law, so it doesn't overwork it, and it would only help in future work by state authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6654	The word has Minister Nela Kuburovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6655	Thank you. The only reason why the amendment was not accepted is because we believe that whoever can be the guardian is already covered by a circle of persons in Article 3(3). If we're going out of this circle, it's mostly a custody body, so just can't have the custody authority involved in the provisions of this law. That's the only reason the amendment wasn't accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6656	The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6657	Thank you. I find it interesting to explain this amendment here, of course, that the amendment should not be accepted because, in the explanation of the amendment, it is trying to explain that the performance of parental duties is a similar obligation and custody. It may be similar, but it must be known that parental duties are obligations and custody institutes, two entirely different legal institutes. Similarity isn't the same thing as equality. I must also point out that the Family Law of Articles 126 to 150 has regulated custody protection. The foster care is carried out by the Centre for Social Work, as a guardianship body, and a member of 133 provides that custody authorities' duties may be applied to those who are harshly neglecting the performance of custody duties and obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6658	Thank you. Mr Marko Milenkovic, Petar Jojic and Zoran Krasic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6659	Article 4 of the Proposer has tried something to solve that should not be done. You've made a criminal code to which this law can be applied, in terms of prevention and prevention of direct forms of violence. I think you made a mistake. Why? The provisions of this law in the act of preventing violence refer to all criminal acts that can somehow stem from family relations, because the elements of the entity's criminal act of domestic violence contain the elements of many other crimes, only this factor - family relationship. So other crimes are possible. And why would one law hinder me from competent authorities that fight against danger? In that sense we have submitted this amendment, we just wanted to point out that this is not how we should tie our hands to the competent authorities that are trying to prevent it, by the fact that there are some urgent measures that are limited both by fact and by time. If the law is fully prescribed, they are also possible for a democratic society to deny the enjoyment of certain human rights, if there is a need to protect a greater goal. That's why we don't understand why you've been narrowing down the possibility of prevention in this way, a team before the crime of domestic violence has a pretty similar logic to that of organized crime. There is a wide range of possible crimes in the work of organised crime. Why did you do it here, I don't get it at all? If this is how you wanted to limit the self-will of the held organs, then you chose the wrong way. Self-will or possible abuse by state authorities shall be carried out by procedural provisions. Are the emergency conditions met? How long can they last? What is proof that, or a high degree of certainty, the situation has taken place that emergency measures need to be taken? These are provisions to prevent abuse, not by taxing out potential crimes where there is a basis for the application of emergency measures.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6660	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? National MP Zoran Zivkovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6661	That is right, and the proposal for this amendment is that Article 4 is changed and said – and the notion of sexual harassment is introduced instead of gender, and that is to comply with Article 182 of the Criminal Code, and I have submitted the amendment to that article. There's actually an explanation. The reason for the refusal is said – the government does not accept the amendment, because according to the Criminal Code, the work is called full, not sexual harassment, etc. That is why the amendment is also proposed in the Criminal Code. And he says - this member should bear the term sexual, not full harassment, because the word is full of indication that the work is a member of one sex relative to the other sex, and of course we know that this is not the only way of sexual harassment. In this way, it is defined only in one part of possible violence. It is said that the word sexually is not of Serbian origin. We have so many words that are not of Serbian origin that we use. Of course I like Serbian and adoption, I think, five amendments where I fix the texts of this law group are proven, but the word is sexually in use with Serbs both in Serbia and in Serbian, I think for sure for a hundred years. Of course, it is clear what the interpretation of that expression is, and what the interpretation of the expressions is full of harassment. I've been using the ones I'm entitled to for another five minutes. So I think it's a bad way to reject the law. We have this possibility, let's say, that the term existed in the Criminal Code from 2002 to 2005, sexual harassment. What happened in 2005? What thought was that to change it into full? I do not wish to interpret it, but what existed from 2002 to 2005 is obvious evidence that the word has its place in Serbian and that, as it is clear in the proposal for this amendment, more specifically, not to say or to say, fully defines the concept of violence in this area. I think it's a good opportunity, Madam Minister, not persuasive, but merely a proper use, since you are a lady, to accept this amendment, dLet's continue to improve the language used to define legislation in this House, but not only that, but in this case, to give a precise, clear, comprehensive definition of what this crime carries with it. I think hiding behind whether it's Serbian or not, whether it means something or not, would give the perpetrators of this crime the possibility that this crime is committed against a member of the same sex to be protected from prosecution or not being at least prosecuted in the same way as when it seems to be committed to a member of the opposite sex. What's whose sexual orientation, what's modern, what's not, it's not the subject of this law. The protection of family, the protection of individuals, the protection of rights, all of it has a large set of laws that define it, but at this point, in this article of this law, we have to give the possibility that it is fully defined. Let me say, I gave 31, because in those five minutes I can say something that is not directly related to this amendment itself, the 31 amendments, of which six were adopted, if there is a goodwill here is the seventh. Most of them concern what is the language correction of the given text. I'm sorry that no amendments like this have been adopted, such as the amendment with the strike groups from another strike group law. My proposal was to call it "operational groups". The impact groups will likely look more like all the impact holes they have, of course, all over the roads, big constructions across Serbia. We have another good amendment, which is that the Law on Implementation in the fight against organised crime, which is that the law on enforcement in the fight against organised crime, debates, etc., provides that this law begins to apply on 1 March 2018, and this bill has come to us in an urgent procedure because of the necessity to pass it as soon as possible. Where's the logic? How can something that should begin to apply in almost two years, a year and a half, have to come into the process as quickly as possible? I don't want to pee. I can accept that someone's wrong. Perhaps by this urgent procedure he wants to show that he is specific, particularly concerned about the area, but let's, if that's the case, create the conditions for this law to begin to apply as soon as possible. I suggest that it is valid from 1 June of next year, and I do not doubt the minister and her team and others in the government who could help, that the Ministry of Justice and the competent institutions will be ready by 1 June of next year to apply the law. This way we forget if the law was passed, it wouldn't be the first time. There were examples of changing laws before they came into force, by giving a deadline of a year, two, three days, in an earlier period. I don't think there's any reason for us to allow ourselves to waste time and make good legal decisions, to delay their application indefinitely. Let me get back to the amendment. I expect you to understand. I have no doubt about what the objective of this amendment is. I expect him to be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6662	The word has Minister Nela Kuburovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6663	Thank you. The amendment was not accepted in this law because it was not accepted in the Criminal Code either. The only reason is we stick to the concept that exists in Chapter 18. Criminal Code and called – Criminal acts against gender freedom. Full stores are not mentioned only in one criminal act, but in several criminal acts and there are criminal acts of illicit sex trafficking and the admission of a minor to the presence of sex acts. Well, just for reasons to be consistent and to follow what's already in the Criminal Code, the title of total harassment has been retained. That's why we don't accept it here. And I hope that when we discuss the amendments to the Law on Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in countering organised crime, corruption and terrorism, we will have more opportunities to talk about why it is delayed until March 2018 and precisely because we are aware of how long it takes us to prepare the special departments that need to be formed, how long it takes for the special departments to go through in senior public prosecutors, I think that the Ministry of Justice is very realistic and very realistically able to assess how much time it takes to get the time and effective application of the law that we are talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6664	Thank you. Members of the 4th Amendment in the same text were brought together by MPs Nenad Canak, Marinika Tepic, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic, and joint MPs Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojičić, Maja Vidinović, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Jesic, Dejan Nikolic, Veroljub Stevanović, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic and Tomislav Žigmanov. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6665	Thank you, Vice President. The amendment is similar to that of MP Zorana Zivkovic and you tell us that you do not accept it for reasons why you do not accept the amendment of MP Zoran Zivkovic, which is that in the Criminal Code it is also called full, not sexual harassment. We, however, propose that the amendments we have submitted to the Criminal Code should be separated because not everyone is sexually harassed. Someone may disturb you because you're a woman, but it doesn't have to do it sexually. There are differences between these two crimes according to our proposal. We also predict various punishments. But now there's a strange situation, about the reasons why you refuse the amendment to the Criminal Code, you say you reject it because what you suggest is more accurate. Now, explain, if we suggest that something be precise and that these two crimes be separated because really in reality they can be completely different in real life, how can it be more precise something that is more general than something that is precise? Perhaps it would be better if, in this explanation, why don't you accept our amendment, you wrote that you don't accept it because you wrote it like this or suggested it, and you think that yours is better. This is to be more specific, it simply clashes with logic, it conflicts with what the definition of the word "accurately".
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6666	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6667	Thank you, Chairman. The Social Democrats League of Vojvodina has submitted an amendment which clearly recognises the difference between sexual harassment and sexual harassment, and according to us, the explanation that you stated was practically reduced to the status of nelogism in relation to the word "sexual" and that you therefore did not accept this proposal. The explanation is not enough and it is not justified for the same reasons that my predecessors are instructions, that full harassment implies harassment between the different sexes, can sexually be between the same sex. However, I will complete my appeal to take into account and accept this amendment and the fact that various laws, strategies and acts of the Republic of Serbia dealing directly or indirectly with this problem are precisely using the word "sexual harassment" and you will allow me to mention them. It is the Labour Act, the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, the Law on Gender Equality, the Law on Advertising, the Law on Confirmation of Revised European Social Charter, the National Strategy for Prevention and Protection of Children from Violence for the period 2008/13, the National Strategy for the Prevention and Prevention of Violence against Women in Family Relations 2011/15, the Strategy for Prevention and Protection against Discrimination 2013/18, the current, the National Strategy for Gender Equality period 2016/20, so current, general and special protocols for the protection of women and children, victims of violence, as well as in translations of European Court of Human Rights rulings. Everything I have stated is exclusively used by the “sexual violence, ”“ sexual harassment. ” Please ask that if other arguments or appeals were not enough to take these amendments into account, think again carefully and, referring to the current acts of the Strategy and other documents that are valid and current in the Republic of Serbia, still accept this amendment and recognise full harassment as sexual harassment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6668	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6669	I thank you, Chairman. This is another of the few amendments that obviously don't intervene where it needs to be intervened. This was also the case with the first amendment concerning the non-application of this law to minors, given the existence of the Law on juvenile offenders, where there are even special warrants for minors of criminal acts to do, which can be matched by emergency measures. In the specific case of the termology "sexual violence", first of all, intervention in the Criminal Code could be in a group of criminal acts, given that the Criminal Code is normised so that criminal acts are classified as special groups. These crimes that are referred to the amendments are classified in a group of crimes against semi-freedom, which means that in the event of an intervention on the Criminal Code, which is not possible, especially by not discussing these points of the agenda, we can come to what the amendment promoters might want here, not considering that in this situation we should first go back to the complete Criminal Code, not its changes and additions, and then intervene in chapters, or groups of criminal acts, to change them in order to change the qualifications of criminal acts. In this case, I believe that the amendment has no basis and should not be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6670	Anyone else want a word? The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Alexic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6671	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister, here in Article 4, there are a number of crimes that fall under this law if they arise as a result of domestic violence. We have suggested adding another crime, which is abandoning the powerless person that exists in the Criminal Code, Article 126. Your reason for not accepting this amendment is that it is not accepted because leaving an impotent person is the subject of an order of this law only if it is due to domestic violence. Each of these crimes, which are mentioned here, is the subject of this law if the consequence, even if I understand so, of domestic violence. If this is stated, point 14) non-compliance or violation of family obligations, as a crime listed here specifically, you will likely say that this now falls under point 18) of the second criminal act, if it is a crime of domestic violence, but that is what I was saying in the previous report. We want to specify some things, not to stand this "other", because then "other" can mean in some interpretation any other crime, so whether it's related to domestic violence. We think this crime should be found, especially in the list. It exists in our Code, but we had the opportunity to see that some acts, which will now be able to qualify as domestic violence, had this element – abandoning the powerless face. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6672	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6673	Thank you. Just to be precise, to be clear, this law applies to domestic violence, but it has a broader application. The offences listed in Article 14 shall be applied even if they are not among the persons made up of family members in accordance with this law, which means that if there has been a rape, not among family members, these provisions of the law relating to the support and protection of the victim will apply. So the co-ordination groups that work will apply these provisions to those other crimes, that is, have a wider application. Emergency measures are merely pronounced in the case of domestic violence, and the use of other crimes is precisely in the part in which the victim is supported, regardless of whether the victim is a victim of a crime in the family or one of these other crimes. The abandonment of an powerless person is certainly contained in the provision of Article 4 paragraph 1 point 18, if the crime is due to domestic violence. It shall certainly be covered by what is found in the proposed Article 4.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6674	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The People's MP Tatjana Macura submitted to the 4th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by the People's Messenger Tatjan Macura.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6675	I have suggested that in Article 4 in the post-18 paragraph 1, new points are added to the mutilation of the female sex organ, the forced conclusion of marriage, the abduction of a minor child, the non-reportation of the preparation of the crime. The bill provides for co-operation to prevent domestic violence in criminal proceedings for certain criminal offences taxfully, and for other crimes, co-operation is foreseen by the general provision of point 18) of the same attitude and by a member of the bill. In view of the fact that the legislator provided for co-operation for only one criminal offence proposed in the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law, and for the work prescribed by Article 138a of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law, it is unclear why the Proposer of the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence did not specifically provide for co-operation and for criminal acts under Article. 121a 187a. In view of the fact that the crimes in question have as a protection facility the very good that can be threatened by the actions of family violence that the Proposer is proposing to neutralize the provision of the proposed bill. Also, for the same reasons, it is unclear why the proposer did not propose special co-operation and for the crime referred to in Article 191. A criminal code, especially for the reason that taking away a underage child can be the result of domestic violence. In particular, given the provision of Article 12. The proposal for a law on preventing domestic violence that provides for the obligation to report and recognise domestic violence should specifically provide for co-operation on non-reporting prepared crime, and that is precisely those proposed and proposed as an act on which co-operation is established. On the grounds that we received from the Government, I ask – if so, why did the promoter specifically single out some crimes? Why works are more important than those proposed by the amendment when they are from the same Head of the Criminal Code on which the Proposer insists in other examples.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6676	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Sreto Peric and Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6677	We have submitted the amendment to Article 4 logically to the amendment submitted to Article 5. An analysis of the amendments, as well as the articles themselves. 4th and 5th, and by analysing the government's response, which is why these amendments are not accepted, one clear conclusion is that the application of this law will not bring any papers and will not be any better than it has been so far, although the expectations of this law are extremely high. Here, in Article 4, it is counted from point one to point 17) for which criminal acts are the competent authorities that are subject to this law, and in point 18 you say – and other crimes, if the crime is due to domestic violence. This law also applies to the provision of protection and support to victims of criminal offences as referred to in Article 1, etc. It is already said that the Criminal Code and some other laws provide for what is a crime, and the specificity of this crime against all other crimes is the property between the victim and the perpetrator. So they need to belong to the same family to be qualified as crimes and crimes of domestic violence. The fact that this law has not been well done indicates that, or the proposal for this law is still subject to the 38 members of the bill 152 amendments, and 21 amendments have been accepted, or 55.26% of amendments have been accepted in relation to the number of members offered by this law. This indicates quite clearly that the law, as if a working group was working on preparing to enroll in law school, is not, in your opinion, serious people from the Ministry even with consultation. Yes, yes, Mr. Ilic, that's right, so you probably are, and you know that this law will not serve anything and it's not good, and especially you said and we could hear or find out that many NGOs and the civil sector participated in this bill. It is best that their work is done by those who are in charge, who are chosen and who are paid to do so, but then their responsibility must first be expressed, not the responsibility of someone outside that part. I don't think this law really is going anywhere near what those who look forward to, even victims of domestic violence. If they expect any improvement from this law, when it begins to apply they will be greatly disappointed.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6678	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6679	Thank you, Chairman. I would disagree with the finding that the law will serve nothing. I think it's a little too much and too much too much of a finding. Namely, I'll take you back, in the last two years in my local self-government 172 cases are domestic violence. What's certainly a great social benefit when it comes to family as a basic cell of society, someone just said that we don't know what family is, that it's not defined. Someone else said that we were still in nature and society at some time, when I went to school, learning that family was the basic cell of society. By protecting what society is resting on, I will say just one more economic aspect. For the sake of Serbian citizens, as it has worked in practice so far. Here's how it won't serve anything. After the violence was reported to a police officer i.e. Police officers come to the scene, determine the facts, and criminal charges come to the bully, for example, in the best case scenario in five days. These five days are really big when it comes to violence. That's how it won't work. The victim will be protected in these most critical five days. Come on, part two. This emergency measure did not exist, and to note that the simple term of the victim had never existed until now as such. There was a term damaged face or something, now imagine a damaged face, woman or child, but eventually a man who suffered a large and unseen torture. There's one more part, it's about the economic aspect. They're safe houses. A temporary accommodation where a person is looking for a way out of violence, where we help him in this vicious circle, and the costs of accommodation in safe houses that you have in Vojvodina three, in Sombor, Novi Sad and Zrenjanin, are borne by units of local self-government. Multiply that with the number of families in local self-government, I keep going back to mine, I guess it's closest to me. So you see the cost. And how important it is, and what a great benefit it is. It's just an argument that it's not true that the law won't serve anything. You'll have savings when it comes to housing the safe house. These costs, as a rule, are paid by local self-government units, or to make it easier for citizens to be paid by all of us, citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6680	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6681	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6682	You have no right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6683	Okay, well, I need to explain, so you treat it as you wish. Like this, you don't say you won't serve anything, there'll be little effects. I'd like to sit down with my colleague after 1 July of the year, when this law comes into force that he tells me whether in his local self-government that he just stood out from the total victims of domestic violence 73% are women and as many as there are, so let's see just before the law comes into force, whether the percentage has fallen, increased or something else has happened. Then we'll do another analysis in one, another time period, and that's from 31.12.2017, so let's see what the situation is. On the other hand, we in the SRS also feel that the economic situation in society is good enough to lead to an increased number of crimes of domestic violence. On the one hand, and many innovations that you unwittingly introduce or import from day to day also lead to an increased number of crimes related to domestic violence. That's true, that's what you see. Sounds scary. The victim in relation to the damaged person, but that alone won't bring it, I have to remind Mrs. Secretary, we have good criminal legislation or relatively good, but its application, the measures that are pronounced, we can't generally say they're too mild. The measures imposed on certain crimes are not adequate to prevent, nor what we should do for the sake of punishment itself. That's where we're supposed to take care of things. Well, I guess you're afraid that you didn't skip one of the crimes by listing in article 4 of this bill and saying -- and other crimes related to domestic violence. So it was all meant for some laws. We're just risking leaving something out here and not just in the Criminal Code, but in someone else's. Here when we start counting, then we risk dropping something, and then even that practice in giving those criminal sanctions can't lead to certain results.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6684	Thank you. Two minutes and 30 seconds, since I took 15 seconds to discuss it. So that's how much he's turning down from the MP's time. The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6685	This is where I end up. Dear Chairman, of course I'd be happy to sit down in July to discuss this matter. We're not people who don't keep their word and aren't ready to face what they put out in public. As we are ready to take you back now, to say that you probably didn't follow that closely at the time, but the prime minister, as one of the first legal solutions in the implementation of the government's work programme, cited this legal solution. Well, that's what I'm saying. It's done. Here's the legal proposal before us. Also, I'm ready completely and here I promise you in July to sit down and see the results of this. Of course, it'll be early in July to sit down. It'll probably be the end of 2017. Then we will be able to discuss some of the results and concrete achievements of this law. I wouldn't agree with you when it comes to your finding that we're introducing some innovations so that God knows we're getting close to who. In fact, if you look at the statistics, you will see that domestic violence is not strictly related to the economic situation anywhere and more developed countries and more developed countries have a higher degree of domestic violence than it is in Serbia today, but it is an apropo of what my colleague Djukanovic pointed out the other day that I too am at the point that Serbia is not a country of violence and that Serbia is a country which and how it holds and respects family values. We and how we represent them and this is actually a concern for the family, a concrete concern for the family not only that declarative which individual MPs and individual political options represent and that way they represent in this respected home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6686	Thank you. The word is by MP Ivan Manojlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6687	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, of course this amendment should not be accepted and I just want to look back on what the previous speakers have said. What is very important and what we should stick to during this discussion is that segment that this law needs to achieve, to improve. It's that vacuum that comes from the moment the victim reports violence until the potential perpetrator is processed. As far as these innovations are concerned, my colleague said something about it. It's not our goal to introduce novelty, not to approach anyone, but to give an extremely positive result. This law will greatly contribute to reducing the number of perpetrators precisely because it will allow the potential victim to remain safe in these few days. One big question is why the number of victims has increased in recent years, and we could analyze it for days, but one good indicator is that these laws empower women to report violence and indeed almost we can talk and that the statistical number of potential victims of violence or those who have gone through violence and increased precisely for reasons why women have been empowered to report violence in recent years. Violence in the family, we can almost say that there has been a family since then, and it's inconclusive technically in any country in the world that you will assign a police officer who will sit in one family and prevent violence from happening at that time, but these laws and this kind of desire by the government and the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Justice and the rest of the state authorities are ultimately aimed at reducing the percentage of violence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6688	Thank you. Amendment to which the name of the member and Article 5a is added after Article 5. National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic submitted. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Parliamentarians Milorad Mircic, Jovo Ostojić and Zoran Krasic submitted the 6th amendment together. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6689	The reasons for which we have submitted this amendment are the same as those which were present and when we submitted the amendment to Article 4. The bill, and it concerns how to determine potential crimes or anything that can be related to a crime – domestic violence. Article 6 states which bodies are involved in the prevention of violence in accordance with the provisions of this law, and we did not cover this part with an amendment, but only with regard to the title of criminal offences. However, I must draw your attention to how the debate on each subsequent amendment on a member of the law is slowly losing the essence and content and motivation that was present in the adoption of this law or in determining the name of this law. More and more prevention is being lost from thinking, more and more are losing the idea of what kind of emergency they should be, what they should look like legally, what they're preventing, what they're saving. The bill is defended in the same way that the Family Law proposal was defended, so it was also known – for the first time we are introducing violence in the family. Did you ban him? You didn't ban him. When misery enters the door, love jumps out the window. You solve this problem, then there won't be any need for sanctions.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6690	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Marjana Marash. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by the People's Messenger, Marjana Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6691	I thank the chairman. Dear Minister, thank you for accepting the amendment both to you and to the government. In my amendment, I proposed that Article 6(2) be changed and that other institutions in the field of child welfare, social protection, education, education and health, further text, state authorities and institutions responsible for the application of this law, as well as bodies for gender equality at the level of local self-government, be included in the relevant national authorities and bodies. I especially thank you for accepting and – bodies for gender equality at the level of local self-government and on their behalf, regardless of whether they were formed by the local assembly or formed by the conclusions of the president of the municipality back in the years they dealt with the prevention of violence. Many members of these bodies have also been trained by the OSCE mission. They are sensitized on this subject, trained and indeed will contribute to the full prevention of domestic violence, and certainly specific objectives when it comes to a national strategy to prevent and combat violence against women, in the family and partner relations, which was brought in 2011. Its specific objectives were to include local self-government units and birth equality bodies at local level. Once again, thank you for accepting this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6692	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Djordje Milicevic, Prof. Dr. Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic, Dani Stojadinović, Snezana Paunović, Stefana Miladinović, Milisav Petronijevic, Vesna Ivkovic and Dr. Danica Bukvic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Stefan Miladanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6693	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, this amendment was also discussed in principle, and it concerns the proposal by my parliamentary group to provide for a national strategy as binding in Article 6. I must admit that for us, the reasoning we have received is not satisfactory or at least adequate, since you said that the amendment is not accepted because it is legally binding, which is, by its legal nature, a political act. We can agree that it is a political act, but certainly that the strategy is also a country on certain issues, and as such it should implement political decisions. It seems to me that domestic violence is a serious social issue, hence the political issue, so we think it is extremely important that a national strategy as such exists, because as a state, we have been determined by domestic violence as zero tolerance, because it is something that is necessary. I believe that the strategy is binding as such and can contribute in many ways to the fight against violence, because it is something that provides the unequivocal activity of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6694	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6695	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister with Associates, will refer to the exact same amendment and try to supplement my colleague Stefan eventually when it comes to our proposal that the law actually contains a binding position that a national strategy to prevent domestic violence is adopted. It is indisputable that the law itself treated prevention as such, but it seems primarily secondary and tertiary, so in that sense we thought that the primary was necessary. Why? Because for the longer term, as we have amended and predicted, it would simply leave the possibility of potentially affecting the existing situation. The law treats what is the actual state and consequence of what has been done, but we think that prevention would greatly simply reduce the number of such crimes. In this regard, even in the light of the amendments, you will allow me to look back, said that the five-year strategy would be brought by the government, and that competent ministries, the professional public, the academic community and the non-governmental sector would participate. This is a complex of institutions that would deal with this issue and, I'm sure for some long time, they've managed to minimize what statistics are now worrying about. I look back again, for all this inspiration was primarily in the view that zero tolerance is relative to domestic violence, when it comes to the country's relationship with this phenomenon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6696	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Nogo, Bosko Obradović, Dr Dragan Vesović, Marija Janjusevic, Mr Ivan Kostic and Zoran Radojić. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6697	In Article 7, we put the amendment to specialized training that police officers should be going through. First of all, I think the role of the police should simply be the smallest, smaller, and the center for social work, the prosecution and the courts. Or, you know in what sense the smallest? First of all, I think that all officers should do their job in accordance with the law and that that is quite enough in this case, and that the assessments this law requires should be left to the other authorities as much as possible. With this in mind, I do not think there is a need for such a kind of specialized training, and especially as it is a question of who is going to train, that is, instead of trusting those trainings with certified academic institutions, the legislator seems to like to force a failed institution and an institution that has absolutely not justified the reasons for its existence so far. No plans, no programs, no own frames. Instead of entrusting such training to the law school, they confide in the Judicial Academy, which will engage for the good fees of the same professors of law school, so it is an absolute absurdity. I think that's why, in general, all three of the following amendments, we are opposed to these specialized trainings. The difference is, I say, with the prosecution and the court, they are absolutely competent people to carry out their duties by completing the law school and having passed a judicial exam and having great experience and being elected to prosecutorial, or judicial functions, while with members of the MUP it is enough to respect the Law on Police and to respect the Criminal Code and the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence and will certainly do their part of the job if these letters of the law are followed. I'm not sure there's any additional specialized training required, because, I repeat, I think that all members of the police would have to be obliged and competent for this crime, or to prevent domestic violence, and there's no need to introduce one special, in order to reduce the level of protection.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6698	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6699	Thank you. Additional specialization and training is necessary and I will explain why. We have been in the past few years, since the Family Law was applied and since the protocols of the co-operation and co-ordination unit were established between the police, social work centres, courts for violations, etc. They had cops who died. They enter the house to help with the call and the big problem is that there is prejudice that we share here – so it's family. Well, like nothing bad can happen out there. A police officer who's trained to prevent the theft or robbery of a gas station, jewelers, physical assault, he knows that there are enemies there ready to commit a crime. The consciousness that is often heard here – well, a little fight, so now, what to do, has prevented officers who, unfortunately, have partly lost their lives on duty, that they have the awareness of how dangerous a family can be for people who live together unhappyly. Not special training, but continuous special training for all those sent by the police to intervene on the call to the scene of domestic violence, so we can protect the police. They dress up every morning, so they protect us all. This was a new crime, and it was the police who quickly adapted and established a great task force, but no matter what I know it's not the minister's jurisdiction, I simply have to share it on a public stage, and because of the stenogram of the Assembly, police can be as threatened as those who threaten someone who commits domestic violence.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6700	Thank you. The word has been made by Parliamentarian Olivera Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6701	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministerial with Associates, Honored Fellow Members and fellow People's MPs, Article 7. The bill defines that the head of the district police department determines police officers who have completed specialized training to prevent domestic violence and protect victims of domestic violence. Proposers of this amendment demand that words be deleted – which have completed specialized training. I call on you not to accept this amendment, because if the words required by the proposed amendment are deleted, it means that the applicants of the amendment agree that there is a police officer who will deal with the problem of domestic violence, but they do not feel that it is necessary for this competent police officer to undergo that specialised training, thus obtaining additional knowledge and skills from the area of law to be applied. I really don't understand why someone thinks it's excess or maybe even harmful if someone acquires additional knowledge and skills from this area. They explain that training is in fact a way for some lecturers to benefit from this training. No training is expensive if it saves people's lives. On the other hand, training is defined by Article 27. The bill and if the applicants of the amendment felt that someone else was more competent to carry out these trainings than the Judicial Academy, they should have submitted an amendment to Article 27 of this Law. I'm not sure if it's a simple discrepancy or, as I say, a missed topic or if it's a tendency to sit in parliament for three days and discuss the law in particular. Once again, I call upon you not to accept this amendment. Thank you. (Srdian Nogo, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6702	Based on what? (Srdian Nogo, from the scene: she mentioned the proposal. And what did she say? (Srdian Nogo, from the place: Not correctly interpreted, Article 104) No, she totally correctly interpreted your exposure. (Srjan Nogo, from the scene: This is your interpretation. Now you interpret what an apostle interpreted. Let me explain something to you. According to Article 104 of Article 3. I have the right to interpret. (Srdian Nogo, from the post: But according to the Rules of Procedure. That's what I'm doing. According to the Rules of Procedure, Marija Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6703	Dear Chairman, I point to a violation of Article 100. If you want to comment on the amendments, you need to go down to the O.R. The previous pay phone simply didn't come to the end, in an intense desire to show up in a bad light the one most defending the family simply didn't have time to inform ourselves that we had submitted the amendments to everything that is stated today. So we were very comprehensive, as we are in criticism, and in those steps that should have preceded. We've filled it all out. So, if Dwri, as a family movement, should appear in a different light, you have to try a little bit harder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6704	Just a minute. (Verica Radeta, from the city: According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 100.) All right, she's a colleague of Radeta's. I didn't think of you as calling for article 100, but I have therefore followed very closely the discussion and applicants of amendments and MPs who attacked this amendment as it was submitted and I say that you have been properly interpreted. What's so controversial about that? They're not my private impressions. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word has been given by the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6705	I'm talking about the position of Article 27, which obliges you, Mr. Arsic, to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure. My remarks refer to the end of the debate, namely the discussion of the lady who spoke about the fact that the amendment should not be accepted. Of course, it's her right, and I'm not talking specifically about this amendment, but I'm talking about what she said she thinks the amendments are being submitted here to discuss the details for three days. If she thinks it's important that she write five sentences so she can barely read them here, it's her business. We MPs, first of all I am talking about the SRS MPs, we are doing our job seriously here, we are submitting amendments, to communicate primarily with the minister and then to the ruling coalition's MPs to exchange views, perhaps to convince some of our amendments to adopt. We are submitting amendments with extreme well-meaning, not even to use time, not to abuse what we have the right to do, but to do exactly what is the obligation of the MP and to try to establish a dialogue with representatives of the ruling coalition and the minister. I would have asked you, when I heard from you, not to deny the people's MPs the excessive right to the line. No one here has any intention of fighting. You know, it's easy for you when you have so much time to take away your MPs for two minutes instead of a replica and by justifying others that you don't allow a replica, when there's obviously a need to exchange arguments – not argue, not exchange arguments, not exchange arguments and try to convince that what we have suggested is in the interest of improving the text of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6706	My colleague Radeta, I would ask you to take care of how you express yourselves about fellow Members of the People's Parliament. You just said your colleague was half-writer. You said she wrote five sentences she barely read. That's the first thing. The second thing, I don't understand why you're in all this, because there was not a word about the amendment that came from the SRS parliamentary group. (The Faith of Radeta, from the scene: but she spoke in general about how we talk about the amendment.) That's why? Okay. Do you think I broke that one sentence of the Rules of Procedure? (The Belief of Radeta, from the city: There must be consideration of the debate. All right. The word is by the MP of the people, Serbian Filipovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6707	Thank you, Chairman. I find that the injured member of the 107th century is 1st and 2nd. - that the speaker at the meeting of the National Assembly is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly and, Article 2, that no direct address of the People's Parliament to the other People's Parliament is permitted at the session of the National Assembly. You know what, someone can be in the O.R. or not, there are different reasons why someone isn't present here right now, but the question is, how is someone who's so much of a family value fighter for family, preservation, children and everything else, and the head of the Dverry MP group, how did one medium announce it on March 31st 2016, and here are the direct transmission viewers who can see, what was there no answer, that the gentleman in question left her husband because of unbearable psychological pressures?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6708	Serbia's Filipovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6709	Of course, never the answer has come and the answer will certainly not be and the public is important to know what family values are and that there should be no violence against women in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6710	I'm setting a five-minute break. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6712	Thank you, Chairman. Simply, I will begin the presentation of the amendment with two sayings in our Serbian people that say – smart writes, and the fool remembers, and the other says – a man learns as long as he lives. A while ago, someone resented our colleague for writing something and reading it, and I congratulate everyone who wrote something and read something about this law. I can't blame anyone who writes anything and reads something. I just wrote a few words, so maybe I'm a fool too.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6713	I'm asking you about the amendment, Mr. Vujadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6714	I'll go with this friend, man learns while he's alive. As mentioned yesterday, law enforcement starts in June 2017. It's a good thing it's given time for police officers to complete specialized training. It's a good thing he gets some new knowledge and some new skills. This is an area we don't regulate by parking. I think that today we regulate one of the most sensitive issues in our society, with the most sensitive social categories we're working on. It's a good thing the cops have that specialized training. So simply, I invite you to refuse the amendment like this and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6715	The word has a folk MP, Tanja Tomašević Damnjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6716	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Madam Minister with fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, namely in this amendment it is required to be in Article 7. The draft law deletes the words – which have completed specialized training, with the reason that training is entrusted to third-class institutions which have neither been affirmative nor confirmed as educational institutions in practice. Article 27. The bill stipulates that specialised training for public prosecutors, deputy public prosecutors and judges is being conducted by the Judicial Academy, and the Criminal Police Police Academy is conducting training for police officers. The Criminal Police Academy is in line with the contemporary requirements and needs of the profession, established by the government of Serbia on 7 July 2016, as an independent high school institution for the achievement of academic and vocational study programmes of all levels for the needs of police education, as well as other forms of vocational education and training of importance for criminal police security jobs. The Judicial Academy was founded as an institution that carries out its activities in order to ensure the exercise of the rights set out in the Law on the Judicial Academy and of importance for the judicial system of the Republic of Serbia. So I don't know what was meant when the proposal for this amendment said - third-rate institutions. That is why I support the government's position to reject this amendment, because it is precisely these specialized trainings that are one of the conditions for the victim to be protected and to prevent violence effectively. So, I believe that the proposal for this amendment is not an intention to improve the text of the bill, but exclusively the malignancy of their proposings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6717	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6718	I thank the chairman. Given that I believe that the motivation of the promoter should not be questioned by any of us here, because I am convinced that all MPs should have one single motive when submitting amendments, and that is to improve the quality of the law, and that is something that should interfere with us in our work. So I won't in any way question the motive, but it's worrying that one part of the amendment is interpreted in the way it's interpreted, and that's to erase one part of the formulation relating to specialized training. The first reason is that it is the foundation of this law or essence, precisely the specialization or education of those who will apply this law directly. They also carry the greatest burden when it comes to the practical application of this law. The second reason, is that there are already specialised police officers in police administrations for various areas, from terrorism or anti-terrorist actions, diversified and others for minor perpetrators of any other crime. If this is about improving education, the ratio of the contribution to further education of those who are going to apply this law directly, and we are calling for institutions that are going to implement this training, then we are in big trouble. The question arises as to why these institutions that will conduct training are in general established, or set up. If they already exist, if they are already tasked with conducting that education, why do you suspect that education will be conducted in an adequate manner? There is really no rational reason to accept such an amendment, and there is a third reason that, by erasing these words themselves, they would come into a completely illogical text of Article 7 which would have no meaning in erasing words -- which had completed specialized training. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6719	Thank you. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6720	First of all, you're chasing a C.I.A. that's fighting terrorism and is a serious police unit, which is seriously trained by an ordinary officer. You want to make an expert out of an ordinary officer. So all you have to do is prescribe to that man how he should act under the circumstances. It means that he has a clear rule of service, and that man will work under that rule of service, and not from a man who has to respond to a simple call to create an expert as if he had completed a higher education facility for the area. So he can't be a psychologist, he can't be an expert in criminal law, he can't be anything but who he really is, and he's a cop. I wish every officer was Rambo, like the previous speaker said, but unfortunately not. So, I really don't think there's any need, I see that with MPs the ruling majority is a lot of anxiety and that something unseen is sharp and angry with MPs who come from the Court and our amendments. I guess the reasons for that yesterday, when we pretty much broke this argument of yours pretty hard and made you angry about it. I remind the chairman that he may have been obliged to give a warning to a previous speaker who in a highly tenorous way hurt the dignity of the National Assembly, but he has very effectively determined a break in that case. The president of the Dvori party is both a model husband and father of six children and against him has never been reported, nor anything, so it is simply defamation to say such a thing, and apparently this SNS speaker confused Mr. Bosko Obradovic with the gentleman... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6721	As it is forbidden for Mr. Sr. Filipovic to talk about Mr. Obradovic, so do you, regardless of what you are from the same parliamentary group. The word has a National MP Ivana Stojiljković.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6722	Thank you. I'm really sorry that an MP who represents the basic link in the implementation of this law, that is, for the time being, the bill, and I hope that we will adopt it soon, because the police here are the main pillar of application and we rely on them the most. That's the point, that a cop who hasn't finished his specialized training can't recognize where the secret bully really is. That's why we had a problem. We've had laws that concerned these problems before, but their implementation was just a problem because they couldn't sense where the bully was, so they used to pimp it out under false charges, and then it just happened that when they pulled back, there was a murder or some kind of violence. So it's very important that he goes through specialized training, to be sensitive to these issues, to be free of personal prejudice, that's very important, and of course not to be subjective. I would add one more thing, since we didn't talk about it when it was the adoption of Article 5a, which was submitted by counterpart Martinovic. I wouldn't want the day to go by without being mentioned. I am glad that the amendment has been accepted and that it has become an integral part of the law, where the disciplinary responsibility of competent institutions for non-compliance and non-compliance with deadlines will be exercised. That is exactly what will allow this law to be applied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6723	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6724	When it comes to training officers in the police department, I must draw attention to the fact that the Law on the Police Department has recognised domestic violence in particular and has specifically singled out police actions in the event of domestic violence. Compared to all other groups of criminal acts, it is particularly apostrophe and is a special member. So, this particular member also points to the necessity of a police officer to assess whether there is violence or not he is working with other public authorities. Here, in some ways, we only add to that obligation, which is already prescribed by the Police Act. But what's important here, we don't regulate the conduct of a police officer on the ground alone. The essence of this law is a risk assessment, and that is precisely why it is necessary for a police officer to assess whether this danger is so much a basis for expressing an emergency measure or not. Of course, in the previous days, I have seen that you have a reluctance or animosity towards the Judicial Academy, but the Judicial Academy has established a law that primarily exercises the training of judges and public prosecutors, associates, both in courts and in the prosecutions, and I would not be able to underestimate mentors and trainers in the context of training, given that these are judges and public prosecutors of the highest courts and prosecutors, so that I also believe that they will be able to do both in this situation and together with other persons who are engaged adequately conduct training not only judges and prosecutors who will act under this programme, but also a training programme that will be conducted against police officers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6725	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6726	All I ask is that you take not only my time from an authorised representative, nor from an MP's group, given that I have the right to a replica, for two reasons. The first reason is that I will never address my amendment in the way he addressed me. I mean, I don't think he's getting in the way, so I'm not chasing any terms or terms. That's one. Under two, police officers are not only officers and should in no case be demoted by people who work in the police, especially the M.O.P. Police officers are also those who are not officers, and these are people who have a certain professional equipment and a certain professional profile and specialize in certain tasks and tasks that they work in police administration. In this situation, why is it absolutely unacceptable to interpret it? Because there is a need for special sensibility for those who will practically apply this law, because it is essential to recognise violence and identify dangers or direct dangers from a violent act. In any case, it can't be reduced to a simple job, a simple job. This job must have a certain degree of education. The job must have what it means to upgrade the basic part of knowledge and experience gained by performing certain tasks in the ministry. So in this situation, I really don't need to spend any energy, not to explain in what sense it would be extremely pointless to accept the amendment and delete the words that give the essence and give the goal to this law, and the headquarters of this law is education and specialization. That's why I don't think there's any need to comment anymore. I will not comment again, nor report to this amendment, considering that even the legislator stands firm at the point of view that exactly what everyone here has confirmed is right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6727	Thank you. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has his word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6728	Article 103 has been broken. The previous speaker did not have the right to reply because he was not given the word immediately after the injury. I'm sorry, Article 104. So, he had to answer my line right away, and before he did, he was speaking from the SNS, so you couldn't give him that right on the line. So, I don't think it's correct that MPs have much more rights than MPs. We are denied the right to replication even when we are mentioned directly, and here we are allowed to come and receive the right to reply after a whole circle of speakers.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6729	Mr. Nogo, I'd like us to switch places at some point. (Srjan Nogo, from the place: I wouldn't. And you wouldn't? Honestly. Well, here you'd have a monitor on the application for a word that can no longer accept the application of MPs. So five names can be found. It was seven, eight, ten. Even the minister couldn't sign up at some point for a word. So I no longer knew who was on what basis, and Mr. Jovanovic met the conditions for replication. It's my fault I couldn't give him that right now because of the electronic system. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6730	Thank you. All that the minister said and the MPs who defended the need to have specialised police officers heading precisely in the direction that ordinary police officers, so to speak, cannot properly assess the situations in which violence has taken place, in which situations threatens further dangers etc., and we have been very surprised why then our amendment to Article 13 has not been accepted, which is precisely suggesting that a police officer cannot make a decision on whether or not to set an urgent measure of protection. So I expect, then, all the MPs of the SNS and the ministry to accept our amendment to Article 13, because he is now completely unexplainable reasons.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6731	Comrade Jerkov, only when that amendment comes. The word has the People's Messenger Muamer Bacevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6732	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I will remind you once again that we are here first of all to pass a good law. We're not going to win each other's speeches, and I think the current argument of all these people in the position has shown that this is the cornerstone of the entire law. We now need to discuss whether there is too much knowledge and I would disagree with the previous speaker when he says - ordinary police officers. There are no ordinary police officers. Please, if we want to educate people, it's a good thing, even to be more compatible with the organs in social institutions, and that's a good thing. I think it's too much of a story and the collapse of the entire law that some MPs insist on erasing this section. I therefore call on you to continue this argument by most MPs that this is an extremely important matter and to continue to discuss other amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6733	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? (No) National MP Gorica Gajic submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6734	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Miss Minister, yes, you can see how important this article is. It's a bill of law when there's been a controversy around it for so long. Article 7 provides that competent police authorities are obliged to determine police officers who will complete specialised training and as specialised police officers will have much more knowledge, skills and skills to recognise potential violence, so that they can assess the risk, because they are also given it in their jurisdiction and, of course, can later express some of the proposed emergency measures. That's why I think that this police officer, who finishes specialized training, should be called - a specialized police officer, because all police officers, even the one with the potential victim coming in and reporting possible violence, is a competent police officer. You, Madam Minister, said it was more appropriate to remain - a competent police officer. I think just because of all this, you've seen how much controversy he's caused, whether he needs it or not, to complete specialized training... I also feel that specialized training should be completed, because it will make them more involved that everything that we have done with this bill can literally be loaded on their backs, because they will be a pillar in the practical application of this law and when it comes to the detection of violence and when it comes to the protection of victims of violence. That's why this amendment came. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6735	Thank you. The 7th Amendment was filed by the People's MP Tatjan Macura. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 7th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6736	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister, fellow MPs, our amendment to this and the next three members are trying to resolve our biggest objection to this law, which is a delayed start of application. So, all of this that we're talking about, if we adopt the law as proposed, it will only start to apply from 1 June 2017. Now, of course, it is clear that this training of article 7, specialized training for members of the police, must happen during this transitional period. What we have proposed is to add attitude 2 and to predict that they are already being organised in the police by people who have so far acted in cases of domestic violence by a group that will work on the application of this law until this training is completed. That's the essence of our amendment. Now what is a problem with the refusal, i.e. the reasons for the amendment, is rejected in one sentence, says – the government does not accept the amendment because by 1 June 2017, when the law begins to apply, which we think is too late, all police officers should complete specialized training. Everyone. I ask you: why does Article 7 say that the manager determines police officers who have completed training, then all have completed training on you. Our experience and fear that by June 1st next year, not everyone will finish. That's our experience. We had good intentions with many laws, the Code of Alertrs and various other laws, which said that in some time they would be organized and trained, so it didn't happen. Our wish is for this law to be applied as soon as possible. That's why we've given amendments to this and the next two members and the last member who says that application should start at least three months earlier. I'm asking most of you to reconsider. I think our goal is together, so that the sooner the state gets better, the better the quality of it, with the help of this law, the more we deal with this problem, so that we don't wait so long, that the training starts, when it starts, that it ends, when it's over. I think you too, as defined in article 7, have provided for the possibility of not finishing the training for all officers or all prosecutors or for all judges, but for those who finish training by then. It would be good, of course, for everyone to finish, but it's not real to happen in the next six months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6737	Thank you. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Gorica Gajic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6738	I'll keep going. So, Article 8 discusses the organisation of a public prosecutor's office, where the public prosecutor will appoint deputy public prosecutor who completed specialized training to exercise the authority of the public prosecutor to prevent domestic violence. So, we suggested adding attitude 2. – that, until the end of the training, specialised training under Article 1, the public prosecutor shall determine the deputies of a public prosecutor who have experience in the prosecution of the perpetrators of criminal offences established by these laws, i.e. criminal acts which have had elements of domestic violence or are due to domestic violence. So, the state has now the deputy public prosecutor who handled cases like this. There is no reason why they should not be organised in the prosecutions and immediately start working on the implementation of this law, long before that deadline, which is 1 June 2017. Now, let's take a step aside from you refusing this amendment of ours. You're saying because an amendment to Article 7 has not been accepted. I mean, technically, article 7 deals with the deadline and training of members of the police, and this is about prosecutors. It's not about the deadline. It's about the way it's organized. If I'm reading this explanation, then the explanation is that by June 1st, all the cops will have completed their training. This has nothing to do with Article 8 talking about prosecutors. I'm telling you clearly that's not an explanation written, but let's take it aside. Let's do something. Statistics is one victim a week, one lost life in domestic violence a week. Let's do something to cut this deadline, so maybe we can save a human life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6739	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The word has Minister Nela Kuburovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6740	I thank the chairman. Since you are saying that there are police officers who have already acted in domestic violence cases, that they are trained to act in this case, I believe that there should be coordination between police officers, both between the public prosecutor's office and the courts, and that everyone has to undergo a unique training so that they can apply this law. I think the Ministry of Justice would also be inconclusive if it accepted and shortened the time limit for the application of the law, even though we are aware that within three months, the training programme to bring the High Council of the Judiciary, the State Greater Prosecutors and that the Judicial Academy can not be adopted within that time period. And in the course of the principle debate, I also told you that it wasn't the only reason why the delayed application of the law only took place to carry out specialized training, but that there are sublegal acts that have to be passed, and these are acts that should be brought together by the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Labour. Third, the most important reason why the application was delayed is the training of programmes and the keeping of central records, since they must connect, not only police administrations, but that there is a connection between police administrations, primary public prosecutors, courts, centres for social work and their networking with the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, which certainly requires time to have an effective application of the law. That's the only reason why we've decided that six months is exactly a deadline that is enough for everyone to take appropriate steps to have an effective application of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6741	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Srdjan Nogo, Bosko Obradović, Dr Dragan Vesovic, Marija Janjusevic, Mr Ivan Kostic and Zoran Radojić together submitted to the 8th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6742	As the Minister said earlier, the absolutely controversial Justice Academy is to us. The Judicial Academy was created by the NGO Justice Center, and formed by USAID and Soros. So it's a state-of-the-art state institution. (Vladimir Orlic, from the post: Which member, to which amendment? ) Regarding this amendment, Mr. Orlic, you have no need to throw it away. (Vladimir Orlic, from the place: What does it say? Read it. ) An amendment relating to the Judicial Academy. We're against the Justice Academy training and specialization of prosecutors and judges. Because the Judicial Academy absolutely doesn't have the capacity. And, Mr. Orlic, you're not a lawyer, so ask around what the law school profession says.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6743	No personal address, Mr. Nogo.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6744	The Judicial Academy is something that didn't even make it to life, something that failed to gain credibility and the profession itself criticises the Judicial Academy. That's why we're against the Justice Academy. As for specialized training for judges and prosecutors, I really think that all prosecutors and all judges are sufficiently professional and competent. I can't accept the fact that we here, not only with this law, but also with this other one on the organisation of state authorities to fight crime, organised crime, corruption and terrorism. We keep doing something, we honor the fact that judges and prosecutors aren't professional enough. They are absolutely professional and absolutely have enough knowledge to apply both the material norms of Criminal Rights and to apply the law that regulates the procession so that I absolutely think it might be a little offensive for them to say that they need some special specialization. Let's try to have a dialogue, try and understand what we're trying to say. A little while ago, around the police, you're constantly honoring us for some malice. Imagine the situation, I really don't think there's a police officer who's capable of predicting whether a person will commit a crime. It has to be people who have a much higher level of knowledge and knowledge. I was just talking in that direction, not something that you're implying and respecting.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6745	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6746	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yeah, because of the direct mention and the reminder that I'm not a lawyer, very well noted, I'm really not. With that, I don't think that in any way affects my ability to read a concisely written text in Serbian, to literally understand it and to interpret whether or not it has any consequences. So when we talk about the amendment, it wouldn't be bad if the previous speaker and everyone else had in mind what he suggested and what he wanted to explain if he was even interested in explaining. If he wants to give political speeches legitimately, but the wrong way. Wrong way, today we're discussing something very specific. This amendment says it deletes the section on – which has specialist training. Now, whether we need training or not, it can be explained in an appropriate way, and that someone is giving political speeches just because there is obviously no other way to fit two minutes into any other meaningful content, it's absolutely unacceptable. And this way, whatever it is, including this amendment, whenever it's something that's going on just to advertise a little bit and take a picture for a direct TV broadcast, not to be accepted, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6747	Now I'm setting a break for an hour, and we're back to work at 3:00. At the same time, just to let the MPs know that according to article 27 and Article 87... . You've taken a break, you can't. You got it. ... Items 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Just a notice, fellow MPs. [[Marko Djurisic, from the place: You took a break, it was recorded.]] [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we move on with our work. Is there anyone else answering the amendment? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Nogo, Bosko Obradović, Dr Dragan Vesović, Marija Janjusevic, Master Ivan Kostic and Zoran Radojčić. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gorica Gajic. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Nogo, Bosko Obradović, Dr Dragan Vesović, Marija Janjusevic, Master Ivan Kostic and Zoran Radojčić. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Tatjana Macura submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Tomislav Ljubenović, Petar Jojic, Zoran Krasic. Is anyone answering for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Petar Jojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6749	As regards this amendment submitted by the SRS, I believe that this amendment is acceptable for reasons that are more precise and specific to the criminal act and the law to which it applies. Which means it's not enough, but it's incorrectly said that domestic violence and the execution of a crime, determined by this law, will provide the victim with protection, legal assistance, etc. It is more precise and precise, that it is done here, in our opinion, which is quite logical and formally acceptable to accept this amendment because it determines exactly what law this wrong deed applies to. Which means it applies to the Law of Violence in the Family. I therefore propose on behalf of the SRS that the Government and the competent minister present here accept this amendment from a formal legal point of view, easier application and understanding of a certain standard.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6750	Thank you. Just to remind the Members of Parliament, according to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that the congregation will work after 18 hours. Anyone else want a word? It was because of those who were looking for hair in the egg. The 11th Amendment was filed by the People's MP, Marjana Marash. Is anyone answering for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Marjana Marash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6751	Thank you, Chairman. In this amendment, I have firstly put an emphasis on economic empowerment for the reason that the amendment puts an emphasis on the economic empowerment of the victim of violence in order to recover enough and it can come out of the vicious cycle of violence, i.e. it has completely left itself alone and alone to continue life without fear that economic addiction will have to return to the bully. The data that I could come up with as chairman of the Commission to monitor the achievement of gender equality, research that was done says the victim on average returns seven times to the bully until he decides to leave it. Some of the reasons why he doesn't leave a bully is because he doesn't have the support or his primary family that has nowhere to go and has nothing to live on. But very often it was the case that the victim decided to withdraw the suit for precisely that reason to realize that the penalty imposed would reduce the family budget. These were some of the reasons why the victims dropped the lawsuit and what the police officers were meeting with, and I mentioned it in the debate in principle when I said that the victim, after dropping the lawsuit, said they had settled, agreed to continue. Data also say that in 29% of cases violence is several months, 71% of it is five years on average, and that after that first incident of violence, it takes about nine years and three months to report. I think the basic reason why the victim can't get out of that vicious cycle of violence is because she wasn't economically empowered and there was an example of good practice, it was in the province of the Regional Secretariat that conducted as a program of hiring victims of violence, where those who hired the victim were refunded, 12 months of gross earnings and women remained after that period to work and thus managed to help them and deal with this problem. I think that whatever the amendment in the sublaws is not accepted and in the future, we should consider that the sacrifice must also be strengthened economically in order to help it come out of domestic violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6752	Thank you. National MP Borisav Kovacevic submitted to the 12th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Borisav Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6753	I'll take a moment, Mr. Chairman. I accept the argument that the Government gave the amendment that as an excellent legal Mr. Nejo gave us, we were on the same thing, but he really explained it more fully and better than I did in my amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6754	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The 12th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Nogo, Bosko Obradović, Dr Dragan Vesovic, Marija Janjusevic, Master Ivan Kostic and Zoran Radojčić. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Tatjana Macura submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by the People's Messenger Tatjan Macura.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6755	Namely, they recognise the unaccounted for, which the Proposer has provided, both the spirit of the bill that afirmises the prevention of domestic violence and the more precise legal standards known in the legislative practice, and that attitude should be applied to the institution of special attention provided for by system laws and which will not bring confusion into the interpretation, as a standard, especially since recognition is a matter of the capacity of a mental apparatus, and special attention is a legal standard which is also known in court practice. The explanation of the promoters that we have received says: that the amendment is not accepted, the purpose of the provision is to provide for the obligation to see violence in routine regular affairs, and then an example is given – the doctor provides first aid routinely, but is also obliged to determine whether there has been an injury due to violence, which by nature things are impossible without the necessary attention. In fact, here the promoter did not explain at all why he gave up the legal institute of special attention and defined himself as a more clumsy solution – they recognize. The example that the promoter gave to a doctor who provides first aid routinely, namely, does not justify giving up the proposal in the amendment at all, which is more than justifying it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6756	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6757	Thank you. Of course, the amendment should not be accepted, and the reason is clear. All state authorities and institutions are obliged to recognize violence. Recognising violence can only be done by trained professionals. Why is it important to recognize violence? It is important to provide timely security, security, protection, and support for the victim. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6758	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP LJupka Mihajlovska submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6759	I thank you, Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Proposer, your Minister for recognising in this amendment a far more precise formulation, i.e. a formulation relating to the provision of Article 12(4). Why? Because we've been discussing one key piece all day today, or we can say freely, the essential part of the bill's proposal, which is to recognize violence, i.e. the identification of dangers, or rather, the immediate dangers that threaten the victim of violence. In the specific case of the proposed text of this Article 12, it was defined that only based on a study of the application and, possibly, physical and psychological traces on the victim could there be an opportunity to recognise violence or an upcoming violent act. My amendment adds that in addition to traces of physical or other violence on the victim, there are other circumstances, which, in any case, can undoubtedly indicate the existence of domestic violence or the immediate danger of this violence. So it's been complemented by something that means a really special dose of sensitivity to one who's obliged to recognize violence. One who is engaged in the identification of violence must have a really special feeling, as the slang is termed "filing" in order to recognize everything that follows the circumstances relating to violence. Therefore, this amendment has reached what is important for both the law and the practical application of the law. In that sense, the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group expressed its gratitude, not only for this one, but also for all other amendments that have been accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6760	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bozidar Delic, Petar Jojic and Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6761	Ladies and gentlemen, as far as Article 12 of Item 5 is concerned. The bill, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, I propose that a reformation be made so much that the application by a public prosecutor who received a report of violence or of potential violence or the danger of violence will be delivered to the competent police administration. How is it proposed in paragraph 5? You see, he says - that the application is immediately sent to police officers, so it is no longer, so that they will inform the police officer in charge, you see, article 13 - the police have authorized officials. Communications between organs, police is an organ, a police officer is an executive, he's an official person. This can neither be applied in legal analogy nor in some other cases. What would happen now, Madam Minister, if the public prosecutor's office spoke directly to your referents at the Ministry? Then you don't know who he's communicating with, because the D.A.'s office is going to address the Justice Department, and the Department of Justice, through its deputy and assistant, signs a request to a certain perpetrator and a particular person or a particular organ. In the police department, therefore, as indicated here, for several police officers. What kind of police officer is that? Chief of Police, he keeps records. Who's this police officer who's authorized to sign up and ask to be treated? Therefore, this would, in the SRS' view, be logical and best legally formulated, most precisely. This way, he will now walk those applications from the officers to the officers and will not know who he is when he receives the application, who is in charge, within what time he is due to carry out the checks, within which time he will submit the report to the prosecutor and will eventually file a return criminal charges for this crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6762	Thank you. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6763	I didn't answer. There's something wrong with the system.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6764	All right. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gorica Gajic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Branka Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6765	Thank you. I have submitted nine amendments to this law and in the root of all of them lies the same reason, and that is that the law is quite unspeakable, it is seen that it was done in haste. I welcome the idea, from the heart, that this matter is finally regulated by law, but I don't see that, apart from this urgent measure, anything else has been prescribed properly. I think that's the reason for the speed he's taking, the urgent procedure we're going through. I can't hold the minister responsible, she's only been here three months, but it seems to be some sort of manners we're working with. As far as this particular member is concerned, the original bill in paragraph 1 states that everyone must report violence, secondly, that state authorities must report violence. It is not clear at all which eyes the state authorities will see violence and report it and which mouth they will report it to. The organ has cells, they're employees. My amendment requires that every authority be obliged to adopt a rule of employment, so that they know that they are obliged to report violence, and that it must be an obligation in all state authorities, not only to the police, but to me a colleague in the National Assembly to come with a blue eye, I must be obliged to report it. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6766	The word is made by the MP Radoslav Milojic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6767	Chairman, thank you. I appealed to President Maja Gojkovic and the Minister last time to warn, Article 108, and I appealed to the chairman of Gojkovic last time and now to you, I know that you don't see, and to the minister, once again, please, that if there is anything your official has against anyone in the opposition, it can work outside. It's really not appropriate, there's no tension, we're talking about a law that's extremely important, we're all into it. We have submitted amendments to improve. This is an extremely important and sensitive subject and there's no need... Here, now he's laughing. There's no point in real, there's no need. He can't upset us with it, but there's really no need. That's what he did last time, and now, he's throwing, he's turning his eyes, he's arguing with talking MPs. I mean, there's really no need. Mr. Arsic, you've been here a long time. I know that the Minister is young, and maybe she didn't get into the Parliament's routine, so let one of you or the SNS warn him how he should behave when he gets here. If he can't stand to sit here, he can come out and come back. That's what he did to Mr. Balša Bozovic when he was talking, it's what he did to his co-worker now, too, I mean, it really doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6768	Indeed, my colleague Milojičić, I haven't noticed, but here, I'll take care of it, and if someone's going to roll their eyes or smile, we can't forbid it. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? (No) The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government to Articles 13, 14 and 16. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic. I ask the authorised representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to plead under this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6769	Amendment accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6770	Thank you. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by the People's MP Tatjan Macura. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the people's messenger Tatjana Macura.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6771	I still think that eight hours is not enough to remove the consequences of violence or to prevent repeated acts of violence, especially because it is not enough time to provide victims of violence. The police officer is in other cases where there is a reasonable doubt that there is a likelihood of endangering the basic values of a man supplied by much broader powers, and therefore there is no reason why there is no case here either. A police officer must be obliged to notify the public prosecutor and to take into account both the status of the perpetrator and the needs of the victim in the exercise of his authority. Limiting all powers to police detention alone is neither qualitative nor quantitatively adequate protection of victims of violence that must be the main focus of the law. It explains that the amendment is not accepted because the law does not regulate the finess of the criminal proceedings and so on. Public prosecutor's investigations. In fact, the promoter confirms that he does not know the entire legislative system. It is clearly defined by the official's behaviour in case someone under the fact that they are psychoactive substances or alcohol, so that the justification that the amendment is rejected so as to see how long the detention would take, actually confirms that the promoter does not see that legal provision, but we have to believe that those who apply the law see it better than the promoter. As for the objection that the amendment refuses because it regulates finesse criminal proceedings and that the procedure is without a doubt not valid, because the amendment did not go beyond the framework of the Criminal Code, I only suggested a special duty for the police to apply their powers under the Criminal Code, and that the promoter has no doubt, does not convince citizens who absolutely have the grounds to question that intention.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6772	Thank you. The word has Minister Nela Kuburovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6773	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have already pointed out several times that this is a special procedure in which the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure are not applied, so even police officers cannot apply those provisions, but only the provisions provided for in the draft law on the prevention of domestic violence.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6774	Thank you. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojičić, Maja Vidinović, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Jesic, Dejan Nikolic, Veroljub Stevanović, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic and Tomislav Žigmanov together submitted the 13th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6775	Thank you. This is otherwise the amendment of Maja Vidinović, which has worked very hard on this law and, of course, with many women from the Democratic Party has made a particularly large contribution to the writing of the amendments. For that reason, here, I have the honor of defending the amendment. What we've been hating since the very beginning is that in some way this law clashes with Criminal Law. Emergency measures, like some kind of violation measure, outdated, as you know, after two years, I think. If that's criminal, it's out of date after six years. I think it will contribute greatly to reducing the level of protection achieved when it comes to victims of violence. I think it's very important in that case that this measure, if you don't want to delete it, or if you don't want to remain the 5th position that has been in force in the last 11 years and applied in one way or another, I think it's our common interest to see how we're going to implement the new measure that you're proposing when it comes to practice. We are in great fear, we are afraid that the level of rights of victims achieved will be reduced in this way and that after 30 days of non-announcement of the hearing in many cases violence will be repeated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6776	Thank you. The word has Minister Nela Kuburovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6777	Thank you. Just to let you know that the government has accepted the amendment, so it remains a crime to violate the protection measures provided for by the Family Law, so there has been no violation and confiscation of the right acquired, as you have said, and the criminal liability remains if an emergency measure is imposed and is related only to this procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6778	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Gorica Gajic submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Vladimir Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6779	Dear Chairman, Minister Kuburovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I propose that the amendment to article 13 be rejected, and this is why. Article 13 The bill on preventing domestic violence is clearly defined by the duties and rights of police officers. Article 13 defines the following, says Article 13 - police officers are obliged to immediately inform the competent police officer or if they consider it possible to bring in the suspect himself, in order to prevent or thus prevent an attempt to act. What I would like to point out is that the applicant of the amendment did not predict that a police officer himself could assess the situation and carry out the arrest of the participants in the work, i.e. The perpetrator of the crime thinks that eight hours is a little short to conduct the investigation. I think the amendment should be rejected and not accepted by the Serbian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6780	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? (No) National MP Nejo Jovanovic submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6781	I thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, I accept with understanding the formulation of the proposal of Article 13 which has been given in the law we are discussing, with the amendment on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group being motivated by one single reason, which is to reduce the risk that exists in any case when recognising violence. Why? Because the proposed text of Article 13, among other things, states that a police officer (or officials) is required, i.e. the obligation to immediately inform the competent police officer of any domestic violence and immediate danger, regardless of the knowledge, and shall have the right to carry out, on their own or at the request of a police officer, a bring-in or a bring-in measure. Today, we had a lot of discussions in the debate and very reasoned discussions concerning education, i.e. specialization. If now a police officer who is not educated is not specialized and does not have that kind of sense of time, i.e. over time or experience, on the one hand, specialisation, would allow the discretionary right to bring themselves a potential perpetrator of violence, there is a possibility of error. There's a possibility of volunteering, there's a possibility of non-experience, there's a possibility of being brought in a person who has nothing to do with violence, and then we get into one, a somewhat risky situation that this same person has a possible right to compensation for no material damage. Therefore, the amendment proposes that those persons who act directly, in order to prevent violence, first provide all possible information to the police officer responsible, inform him of the facts found on the scene, that they can propose bringing in a potential suspect and that only with consent, or a request to bring in the same person. As far as they're doing it themselves, I'm afraid these risks, which I've pointed to now, are in some consequence negative words. In the end, what I think is also important in this situation is the fact that in no way does the bill itself come up with. Why? Because it seems urgent, because this urgency is not diminished here, it is not doubtful that police officers come out immediately, react, provide information, provide the necessary information, the only thing that is necessary, is to wait on the basis of everything they have pointed out from the scene, to say so persuasively, green light that they can bring the suspect in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6782	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) To Article 13. Together, the amendments were submitted by the MPs Bozidar Delic, Verica Radeta and Zoran Krasic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6783	The bill has somehow caught the media's attention these days, and it is a good thing it is, however, that the adoption of this law will stop domestic violence in Serbia. They won't, because this is a bad law. I wouldn't if it was a good law. It just can't happen overnight, and those problems can't be solved in song. Here, this amendment that you've adopted, it's actually saying how you've written all of this, and it didn't occur to you that you have to respect the prejudgment of innocence, and that's why you accepted this amendment. Now we're talking about eight-day detention, or detention. There's no retention, it's detention, there's got to be a procedure, there's got to be a solution, there's no way it could have occurred to someone to keep someone in jail for eight hours, in custody. Of course, deprived of freedom. It was also heard here as if a police officer were the main pillar of solving these problems. No, it's the cop who puts out the fire, who comes to the scene when he calls. There are many other factors in society that should be pillars, which will solve these problems. They have to operate social work centres. It's not the social work center's role just to pay a few thousand dinars per month to social cases and they don't care what happens next in those families. 21/2J/VZ You know, if this law had been passed yesterday, if it had been adopted the day before yesterday, yesterday this attack would have happened again for a woman writing a newspaper, an alcoholic, an alcoholic husband, three stab wounds, it's about Loznica. Did anyone from the Centre for Social Work in Loznica ever know that there was this couple of alcoholics, that they were fighting, that they were fighting. No, now it's come out when that husband got three stab wounds. The economic status of the victims is also very important. As long as we have this number of unemployed and not just women, the victims are both women and children and old parents and relatives, all victims because unfortunately they kill themselves for a few hundred dinars, they kill for maltenes some necessary supplies, to survive. It's killing itself, of course, out of obstetrics. It's no excuse for anyone who kills to survive. No one has the right to take a life and has the right in any way to harass it. But the state has to be much more serious about it. Of course, the basis for inclusion is law, but I repeat this law is not good and will not help reduce, let alone prevent domestic violence.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6784	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Marija Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6785	Thank you. It is an amendment adopted and it is an SRS proposal and I am therefore surprised, no matter what, so that we are working together to correct this bill until the moment we adopt it, but why this little thing. The law won't help us, and it doesn't help us, and we're poor, and there's violence because we're poor, if we were rich, there'd be no violence, so you didn't even start to get away with this law. I don't understand. The vision of the state, the government, the ministry, which proposed this proposal is to solve step by step a problem that is centuries-old, which is the world's court, the whole world opposes this. We have a little bit about the score, about the change of non-essential words, about whether this law will stop or not. So that's one change in behavior, mentality. I expected the support of all parties, because it doesn't really matter if the SNS bully, from DS, is from any other party. It all hurts the same. What everyone in this room is forgetting, don't forget that we're saying this to each other right now, and that's easy, because we're looking at paper, but imagine that everything you're saying, you're saying in the eyes of a woman, a child, a victim of violence. Would you talk like this at that time? You don't understand the idea that what we've been trying for years, for decades, for the non-governmental sector, and many others before us, because this is a big problem, we've now packed into a legislative framework. It's not perfect, no law is perfect in any country, but it's just this idea that we started working on. A consensus of all MPs in this assembly is necessary to support this story. Shall we correct it? We want as many other laws as we've adopted so far. Will implementation practice show shortcomings? They will, as they will in many other laws. Let's show these citizens that we're dealing with a problem. Don't spoil such a wonderful idea and a vision, we've now packed into the law what we've all tried together for years. In each of these parliamentary groups are activists of NGOs who are now MPs or who were close to them. We wanted this law together. Don't make it that way now, if the police are a pillar or if the prosecution is a pillar, or if it's a center for social work, that we're divorcing such a wonderful idea. We've started, we need a lot of help, common energy to get this story out of the way. It is a shame to divide ourselves into political parties and to pick up on such a sensitive problem daily political problems. We're looking at women who are getting beat up right now. Think of them, every remark you make, you tell them in their eyes, and then tell them if it's something you need to talk about. I am extremely proud that this law has come before us. Many efforts and energy have also been made by the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Justice, the whole working group that has been preparing the labour law. You think it was easy for them to agree to all of this in law? This requires a lot of personnel changes, a lot of education, a lot of structural changes, a lot of sublegal acts, a lot of behavioral changes. But give us support for this. Let's go through the towns of Serbia to promote, explain to victims in the least populated town, in the last village in Serbia, which is why it is important that this law exists and why it is important that they use what this law allows them to do. Forget political divisions, vote to help victims of violence. This is the beginning. Give us some backup to start with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6786	Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6787	It's quite offensive to say that the MPs no matter what we talk about and whatever we talk about are petty. Comments on the bill are something that is completely legitimate and legal, especially when it comes to fully reasoned objections. The observation that someone wants to get political points because they criticise this law from someone who spent three, four minutes just on winning political points, because this law is a wonderful idea, because both these and they have joined. No one's against it. On the contrary, the law should be passed. The state must stand in the way of domestic violence, it must reduce domestic violence to begin with. What we heard earlier will certainly not contribute in any way to the reduction of domestic violence. That we're walking around Serbia and we're talking to someone - here's a wonderful idea, there's nothing. We, thank God, are walking around Serbia, we know the problems that people in Serbia have, and we know that there is a fundamental problem with unemployment, poverty, poverty, and that many problems and many family violence arise precisely for these reasons. And the state didn't get involved enough. I repeat, social work centres don't work at all. There was corruption in the social work centres. Old people live in homes, take their apartments.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6788	Excuse me, colleague Radeta, please, I'll give you all the time you need. I'm setting a five-minute break. I ask the MPs that when we continue, the hall will be neat. I will not allow any MPs to be humiliated. I am ready, and for the protection and dignity of the National Assembly and the People's MPs... (Balša Bozovic, from the city: Rules of Procedure. It's over, Mr. Bozovic. (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: What's over? I give you a warning. Five-minute break. [[Balsa Bozovic, from the place: How can I warn in the break?]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6789	The article Gorica Gajic submitted a letter to the title above Article 14 of the amendment. Do you want to talk? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6790	Let me explain. It's kind of consistent with the amendments that I've suggested to change Articles 7, 8 and 9 and be treated by specialised police officers, since that's how we separate the authorities. I said they're all mostly in charge of violence, if they're reported, and they specialize in those who trained specifically to have skills and knowledge that they can act on the report of domestic violence and in protecting victims from domestic violence. In that part of the change at the title.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6791	Members of the 14th amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and together by MPs of the Democratic Party group. Here you go. The word is made by the People's MP Maja Vidinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6792	Thank you, Your Honor. I want to begin by welcoming the way we are discussing this important law here today, especially the minister who did everything to make this an exchange of dialogue and try to respond to all of us and, in the best possible way, to the amendments and the discussion and the exchange of opinions, we influence that this law contains the best possible solutions. In that sense, I must say that DS MPs have submitted a number of amendments. No noise, just to tell you, won't interfere with me talking about an extremely important law. We're talking today about preventing domestic violence and no noise will be louder than my message that we should all hear together. In that sense, as I said, DS MPs and some other parties have submitted several amendments that are actually from our NGO colleague from the Autonomous Women's Center. These are people who have spent their whole lives fighting for women's rights, fighting for children's rights, that analyze the whole system, worrying, submitting amendments, and today we're practically just their voice as a contribution to it. When we talk about Article 14. The bill, they tried to define, on the one hand, and predict some situations that may not have been taxed clearly in the law. When we talk about this, we are talking about the fact that a competent police officer is obliged to give the unsub an opportunity to plead out the essential facts, to collect the necessary information from other police officers, to assess the risk of immediate danger and to give the measure to prevent domestic violence. What the paper and what is proposed by our amendment is that a competent police officer may, by an urgent measure, bring without bringing a possible perpetrator to a police station, if he is in a place where the event is reported or if a possible perpetrator opposes being brought to a police station. I believe that your arguments for refusing this amendment are the fact that practice, in fact, law, cannot predict all situations, that if, then the police officers know what is going on in that situation, but I believe that women, people who are daily faced with victims of violence, who are daily faced with reports of police officers, who unfortunately did not respond adequately, are due to such experience as the proposal of this amendment. In the second position, they propose to comply with the Social Protection Act. It's a termological simple alignment, so that our legal system is not defined differently in different laws. So, unregulated situations that can happen in practice, if possible, refuses to come. I know you've looked at and brought your opinion on this amendment, so I ask you once again, if there's room to tell what's going on in a situation where a bully refuses to submit a warrant, or refuses to come to the police station. And attitude two, which is in line with the Social Security Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6793	Thank you. The word has Minister Nela Kuburovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6794	Just to answer the question what happens if he refuses voluntarily. This law certainly does not exclude the application of the Police Act. If there is no voluntary arrival, the Police Act and the bully will be forced into force at the police station.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6795	Thank you. National MP Gorica Gajic submitted to the 14th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6796	Thank you, Madam President. Ms. Secretary has just responded to a similar amendment that I have on Article 14, but I have to do it for the public and simply because I think I can try to convince you that we need to know what's going to happen and whether to impose an emergency measure on the perpetrator of violence if he isn't brought into the police station. Before that, I'd like a purely technical correction. The first position of this member says - a specialized police officer of the sea, so you put in the proposal, to enable the perpetrator who was brought to the police station to give an opportunity to declare all the relevant facts. I think it is more appropriate to stand – the police officer is obliged to give the perpetrator who was brought to the police station an opportunity to declare all the relevant facts. Of course, I, too, will insinuate on this Article 2, or supplement Article 2, where it is said – a competent police officer can assess the risk and express an emergency measure and a perpetrator who has not been brought to the police station. You're saying that in that case, when he's not in custody, the law on police will apply. Yes, it can be applied to the Police Act if the potential unsub is home or somewhere near the apartment, and what if he's on the run or somewhere the police can't find him? What in that case? We're left unspeakable. Are we going to tell him, after the risk assessment, an emergency measure in his absence? With the amendment and the last position of 3rd, we change and we say – before the risk assessment is completed, the competent police officers are obliged to notify the centres for social work, because mainly after the violence and fatal end, when it comes to violence, social work centres are called. It's not always their fault. Believe me, social work centres have big problems having information about possibly some kind of domestic violence, so they too, in a variety of ways, seem to have information about violence. Most often, the data has the police and is required to notify the competent social work centre before taking an emergency measure, i.e. before assessing the risk and adopting an emergency measure, not only can it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6797	On Article 14 of the amendment was filed by the People's MP Tatjan Macura. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6798	My proposal for an amendment is, in Article 14, to amend Article 3, before the end of the risk assessment, the competent police officer must request the opinion of the Centre for Social Labour, and unless he is able to request the opinion of the Centre for Social Work within eight hours, he is required to act in accordance with the provisions of Article 13. What I received in my explanation is the following answer – that the amendment is not accepted because it empowers the risk assessment to be made up of a specially trained police officer, and the purpose of this training is to enable a competent police officer to act without a social service centre according to certain specific skills and skills that are essential for the quick decision-making process. The promoter simply didn't understand the meaning of the amendment. The purpose of the amendment is not to leave it to the discretionary police not to seek the opinion of the centre in cases where cases of violence are emerging away from the first seat of the Centre for Social Labour and to strengthen the attention and involvement of all bodies that the applicant otherwise includes in the draft law in other procedures. We had some other amendments that talked about the social work center. Therefore, the possibility of seeking a second opinion at this stage is again excluded. I just described the possibility of abuse of a police officer. We have suggested that it be the opinion of officials from the Centre for Social Work and not any opinion of any official, but of a former staff member who has been trained and who you once again feel is not necessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6799	Members of the Parliament of the Dveri Group submitted together to Article 14 of the amendment. Srjan Nogo.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6800	So, a similar member, a position similar to the DJB parliamentary group. So we propose to replace the formulation used by the legislator, a police officer may, if necessary. So to consult the Social Work Centre when assessing the dangers of domestic violence and to add the words "must" instead of "can be done if needed. Why? Because an assessment of the danger is the taking of violence in the family is a complex action, and it is not justified to trust only a police officer. It decreases, meaning, the possibility of abuse to a minimum if the social work centre is involved. I think that MPs have had enough to look at only one segment, so there's a possibility of, say, unwittingly performing functions by a police officer. There is a much wider and much bigger problem that a police officer may not even be worthy to assess such a thing, regardless of whether special training has passed, because it is indeed one complex store where you need to judge whether a person is a person to commit a crime or not. Therefore, I think that we would also facilitate the police officer's work, in order to achieve better quality protection of the victims themselves and to simply make this procedure transparent, if we could include a social work centre. Through the whole law, the legislator is also encouraging mutual co-operation and co-ordination between all state authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6801	Thank you. Member of the 15th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want to discuss it? Members of the DS parliamentary group, together with MPs of the LDP and Bajro Gegic, submitted to the 15th amendment in the same text. Maja Vidinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6802	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is also one in a series of amendments that we have submitted, which are a suggestion and a proposal from the Autonomous Women's Centre, which is also due to the facts of their detailed analysis of the situations leading to this. In fact, there is a need for more precise definition of the risk of repeated violence, how it is defined and what is handled in this sense, and very briefly in the amendment says that the risk of repeated violence is assessed on the basis of all available information, that each time after each reporting, such information is checked and that every state body in which the persons are named, who are specialised in handling, are obliged to assess the risk in accordance with general and specific treatment protocols. What we have stated in the explanation and what is a fact that comes from practice is that unfortunately we do not always have a continuous connection of all information between the social work centres, the custody authorities, the police and the prosecution, and it is important to define more precisely the way the risk assessment is done. Also, a specialised police officer is obliged to forward the information collected immediately to both the public prosecutor and the expert worker of the custody authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6803	The word has a folk letter from Natasa Micic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6804	Thank you. Our parliamentary group has tabled five amendments, also on a proposal from the civil centre, that is, the Autonomous Women's Centre, and one of those five is accepted, which is actually the most important one, to which the civil sector has pointed out. That's on Article 35. One of the amendments is this in Article 15 relating to the risk assessment. That's very important. For the first time, provisions on domestic violence have been systematicized. Indeed, both large and serious changes have been made, but there are also many gaps and inaccuracies, so we are prepared to support the amendments of other parliamentary groups in addition to our amendments, in order to contribute to a better law. I'm saying, there's a lot of inaccuracies, and this amendment to Article 15 is about editing precision. So to define the risk assessment method. It's in addition to these urgent measures, the urgency of the procedure, the education, the specialization, the police, the prosecution, the judge, actually one of the key elements of this law. That's what the minister mentioned a few hours ago. It's a vague explanation. So we're asking that article 15 be completed by headings 2 and 3. Item 2 - Risk assessment should be carried out as soon as possible after receiving a report of domestic violence, it is necessary to carry out after any new report of domestic violence. Paragraph 3 reads - any state body in which persons who specialize in domestic violence are named shall be obliged to assess the risk in accordance with general and specific treatment protocols. So here we are introducing these protocols that are already in force, they are already being applied, and this is the only way we give them meaning and we're helping to sort out this risk assessment that this specialized cop is supposed to do. Then it is completely unclear, I would say, and inappropriately, in an explanation in which you reject such an amendment, the legislator, or the government says – it is understood that a risk assessment is always done when violence is reported and it does not need to be introduced into the law. Isn't it always better to specify and define something than to leave some randomity? It's really absolutely inappropriate to explain the law. Given that this risk assessment is very important, given the fact that even when criminal charges are filed, so even before the law comes into force, our reality is that 51% of these criminal charges are rejected or rejected. So he doesn't see the light of procedure at all, even in situations where women are encouraged to file these criminal charges. This is what I'm pointing out to us to understand the importance of defining and estimating that risk assessment itself. And let's not forget that this domestic violence is the generator of new victims, new thugs, and that generally, if tolerated, it becomes a generator for increasing public crime and violence. So I'm asking you to reconsider. I think it absolutely contributes to the law, and it does no harm to the way in which the risk is assessed and plus mentioning the general and special protocol which further obliges all those state authorities and institutions they commit, and already has some experience in application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6805	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6806	Thank you. Just to be clear, the problem has arisen and already in the first attitude you have proposed in the amendment, where it says - the risk of repeated violence. Since this law is currently doing a percentage of the risk when violence did not arise, and this suggests that violence already existed, so they have repeated it again and then completely destroys the concept of previous provisions of the law. So the first position of the proposed amendment is not in agreement with what we wanted to achieve, which is that the risk assessment is done even when there is a danger of violence. So, if she hasn't been made yet. But if there's a risk of repeated violence, it means it's already started, so it's repeated. It is not in consistency with the other members who precede Article 15.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6807	Thank you. Natasha Micic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6808	Yes, but here's the key word - the declaration of violence, and it refers to both the repeated and the violence that didn't happen. So the report of violence initiates and the risk assessment. I think you left it out, that you didn't have it in mind. It's just that there's a key word here-- application, no application, no risk assessment. So it refers to the repeat and violence that happens for the first time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6809	Thank you. Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6810	Thank you. So when we talk about Article 15, or the amendment that we have submitted, we are talking about an assessment of the risk of repeated violence, which is estimated on the basis of all the information available about the reported event, we talked about it when the debate was in principle. So 33 women have been killed from the moment we first proposed a law on the confiscation of weapons to offenders registered in the family. And that's what's the point of the problem that we have to reduce the risk in every way possible. If we can have information that he's a registered bully in the family, and that he has a weapon that he's acquired under the law, and that that weapon is not taken away when he registers as a bully, then that risk of violence, or potential murder, is increasing. So, the law we proposed years ago, Dragan Sutanovac, first of all, which suggested that the law be on the agenda, was actually talking about this degree of risk that we have now tried to reduce by this amendment, and in the meantime we were able to save 33 lives. When we talk about domestic violence, when we talk about everything that's wrong in our society, and maybe this is the worst thing I'm quite sure of, because every life is sacred, we could have saved many lives that we talked in time about the risks of returnees, especially those that are registered at the police station as perpetrators of domestic violence. For this reason, I ask the Minister to adopt this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6811	Thank you. Marija Obradović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6812	How can you say it so easily – we could save 33 lives and we didn't, because we only adopted the DS Bill. I don't know if there's anyone here who's seriously dealing with this problem. First we hear there would be no violence in the family. If it was just DS law, 33 women would be saved. This is how we killed 33 women. Are you thinking about the weight of the words you say? Let's seriously talk about this very serious problem. We've been watched here by experts who have been dealing with these topics for decades. We need to think about how we will continue to improve this law and solve this problem. Poor and rich. It chooses neither poverty, nor wealth, nor age, nor gender, nor faith. Equally rich and equally poor suffer domestic violence, various types of violence. I'm not just talking about physical violence, I'm talking about psychological violence, sexual abuse, economic abuse. Please don't use this anymore for political purposes. You know very well why the DS's proposal on weapons confiscation was not accepted. Because already in the existing laws, and it has been answered several times, and the MUP has responded to the promoter that there is already something in certain laws that regulates these problems. There's no reason. I don't care who makes the law. It's important for me to start a legal framework for this big problem, and I don't see any support here to get rid of something like this. I'm just hearing -- this isn't good, this isn't gonna stop the violence. All right, tell me, what will the violence stop and will it stop at all? No one in the world has ever dealt with this, but it's working on reduction, prevention, education, education, work at all levels. And I don't know where you got the courage to encourage citizens to think negatively about this bill. We in SNS are really not gonna let that happen. After the adoption of this law, which will be before World Day Against Violence, before November 25th, we will go all over Serbia, as I said, to the last village, to explain to the last woman what are the advantages of this law and to discuss how this law really needs to be used. There's no quick solution, but there's something we need to start with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6813	Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6814	Replica. Thank you. So I don't see at all what's controversial in statistics. So, 2015 and 2016 – 33 women were killed and in cases of returnees were killed with weapons that family members had under the law in their possession. Six thousand applications, 700 convictions. It's statistics. Don't say it's a disgrace to the opposition that she wanted to solve this problem, so now it's wrong for you that the law was proposed by Dragan Sutanovac, and tell me one example – when you put it on the agenda, even if it's on the agenda, let alone the law that anyone from the opposition suggested? And even when it came to Zoe's law, we had to go after each other for six months to make that a proposal for all the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6815	Ambassador...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6816	Dusan Milisavljevic proposed the law and only because he was a member of the DS and the DS MP could not be found on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6817	We'll agree to put the kids aside. So you know who made us bring those laws. It seemed like we were gonna get along. It doesn't take a year to transfer each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6818	I'd like to, believe me, Mrs. Gojkovic, to put the kids aside...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6819	That girl's parents are my good friends. So don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6820	... when it comes to all the kids.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6821	I won't let us go past the subject. Red line - like this. (Balsa Bozovic, from town: I don't understand. Why did you interrupt me? That's right. I don't allow us to transfer, anyone here, to each other when a law is passed, and it applies to children. I won't allow it. That's not the point. The emissaries are getting it. Thank you so much for throwing me away. From now on, I'm going to dictate every pitch in the record loudly. MPs from the parliamentary group have had enough to laugh at the president's comment. It's all because of the record. That's what Gordana Komic did. It took me a long time to figure out why. This is what Marija Obradovic will discuss now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6822	I just asked us to try to fix this law, not to say -- and not being my law, if it were mine I would vote, we had better, my president did better. I said, women and victims of violence are watching us. Do they care who passed the law, whether we're wrong about who did, who didn't. I would only ask you – how many laws have you passed in the previous period when you are such conceits? One more question and I really don't want to talk about this anymore, please, if you have better solutions, we're ready to do it, once again to illustrate to you how serious this is and how seriously we have to deal with this and that this is not the beginning, but that crumb of beginning in this difficult struggle. There's a hundred of us in this room. About how hard this story is to testify next. I am now going to ask you to stand up in the O.R. all who are victims of domestic violence, of partner violence, who have experienced this in the previous... (Employers of the Parliament Group Enough: What is this? ) See, see? That's what I wanted to get. The moment someone asked you, I wanted to show you how difficult it was. It's easy for us to talk about someone else. If I have to get up... I'm asking if anyone wants to stand up and make a public declaration that he's a victim of violence? You won't be here in this room, and imagine a woman who's been putting up with it for years. This law should help us recognize her when she doesn't have the strength, that the institutions recognize her to come out of that story. I know you hurt. That's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6824	Who can I read from all over enough? (Saša Radulovic, from the post: The one who answered. Everyone answered. You're the only one who called, aren't you Ljupka Mihailovska? (Saša Radulovic, from the place: Did she press the key? That's not reporting? What about Tatjana Macura? So you're continuing to harass the President of Parliament. (Saša Radulovic, from the site: Turn on my microphone so I can answer. How did you show your hand? (Saša Radulović, from the site: Turn on my microphone. No, how did you show your hand? How did you show one woman this hand? Thank you. Ambassador Sasa Radulovic yells at the president of parliament - shame on you, and you are helped by MPs from the parliamentary group enough. LJupka Mihajlovska yells at Marija Obradovic. Here you go. Ljupka Mihaylovska is looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure or what by reporting? I'll give you my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6825	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, a Member of the 106th speaker can only talk about the agenda point. Mrs. Obradovic is giving us some class here as if we were in some college. I haven't heard anything about any amendment. I doubt you've read the bill, but you've prepared a very good political speech here and lecture us on preventing violence against women.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6826	Thank you very much. Article 106 to explain. Will your MP group allow me? Thank you. Yes, Marija Obradovic is a politician, which is why she is here and is involved in politics and giving political speeches. Now let me explain, you didn't understand what to do to you. Article 15 is amended and read - the risk of repeated violence is estimated on the basis of all information available on the reported event. She wanted to illustrate to you that most people in this country and this parliament are not ready to talk about their knowledge of violence and that's one of the reasons why women, men, children get hurt. Because we keep quiet. Because we keep quiet. And instead of yelling at me, I will recommend that you go to the theater, watch the show "Trepel" and then decide after that performance how you will vote in this House. The word is made by the People's Messenger Tatjan Macura. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6827	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament and People's Parliament, representatives of the ministry and associates of Madam Minister, I'm really surprised...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6828	What member do you think you're surprised by?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6829	Article 107(1) I'm really surprised that a colleague just recently actually abused the concept of violence. Once again it seems in the National Assembly, the other day we had a scene that was inadmissible. I personally believe that women should not have allowed themselves to justify the behaviour of one MP, but they ignored it and justified its behaviour.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6830	What's the point of the 107th member being injured by?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6831	Just a moment to finish, please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6832	I'll interrupt. So your violence has its limit. (Saša Radulovic, from the scene: One bully is in this room, it's you.) Thank you. I look like a bully. (Tatyana Macura, from the scene: give me back my word.) I won't give you your word back, because Article 107, you abuse an institution. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, you were talking about the course of the session three days ago. (Tatjana Macura, from the scene: it's not true. I defended the introduction and it's not true, give me back my word. Everyone here speaks beyond the agenda. This is not a part of the agenda, it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure. (Tatyana Macura, from the scene: I want to talk about the injury of the Rules of Procedure. Give me back the wrong word. You have no right to do that. You're just as violent as the MP who... Give me back my word. All right. You're not a bully. (Tatyana Macura, from the scene: give me back my word.) I have the right to complete my thought of hurting the Rules of Procedure. I will. Take it easy. You don't have a word, you don't talk shit, you don't talk in a microphone. (Tatjana Macura, from the place: I'm not talking nonsense, don't insult. Give me back my word. I will, just don't yell. I give you a warning, because you yell at the President of Parliament and don't let me lead the session. This is your third warning. Thank you, that's right. Sasa Radulovic is great, Maja Gojkovic is no good. Yeah, I'm gonna go, and I'm gonna spit on people in the O.R. and swear on their mother and fathers. (Tatyana Macura, from the scene: You're using the pay phone again. ) Please, a letter, because it does not allow other MPs to work in today’s debate, receives another warning. Tatjana Macura is harassing the MPs. Please come out, close the door. Don't yell. (Tatjana Macura: You can look at "Mrs. Minister", as you already explain to us what we need to look at in the theatre. I am a very educated man. The Minister is otherwise a woman of the Minister. So I'm not a minister's wife, so look at the show for a few more times. I'm asking the security department to close the door so that we, who want to discuss the law, can continue to work, please. Legally, in accordance with your duties, allow us to work, shut down the O.R. I ask the MPs to continue our work. Everyone has their own way of fighting politically. I'm willing to be insulted every second on behalf of all of you who want to work and argue under the law. My job seems to be the way it is, to suffer daily insults and threats, I'll endure it, it's no problem at all. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6833	I point out that Article 103 is injured, and if we can do it in a calm tone, we simply adopt a new practice. Namely, according to Article 103. - The MP shall have the right to orally point to a violation of the conduct of the President of the National Assembly, if he considers that he does not comply with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, and it shall be held at the session of the National Assembly. Next, in point 4. - The MP is obliged to indicate which member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured, to explain what the infringement is, with which he can speak for the longest two minutes. The next position - if it considers that the injury has not been done, the president of the National Assembly is obliged to give an explanation, and if he considers that the injury has been committed, the president of the National Assembly is required to remove the injury done. You do not allow MPs, even in two minutes, to bring out what they consider to have been the violation of the Rules of Procedure. I think we should adopt at least that level of respect for the Rules of Procedure, even if the Rules of Procedure misread it and if you think they abuse the Rules of Procedure, then take them away from the time of the parliamentary group, but at least give them two minutes. I think there would be less tension in the work of the National Assembly. Here, these 15 minutes if we could erase, it would be really satisfying. Let's all go back to the agenda and not buy cheap political points on this, quote Maria Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6834	There you go, MP. Did I interrupt? I didn't. How is it amazing that the atmosphere in this House always breaks down when MPs of the Parliament group have had enough to say? That's pretty interesting. Have you ever spoken to the MPs of the MP group enough is enough, who have been making the last ten days of chaos in this House, and perhaps then you, as an opposition MP, would have managed to find a common language with them, so that we can continue to do what we did after 15.00 hours, for example? Try to use your discussion in hurting the Rules of Procedure to offend one of the MPs here in the O.R. I won't allow it. So, within two minutes, I can interrupt, after 30 seconds, when the intention is determined and when an insult to the bill of MPs is spoken. And it will not succeed in erasing what was a few days ago, when the messenger is spit and cursed, with any attempts later. It won't be erased. So, talk to them, maybe I'm not the right person and maybe I can't talk to the MPs, get into their code, out of that MP group, you're the opposition, talk to your colleagues, I'll be very grateful if we get the results. And me, if you think I hurt 103. - I hurt him. What do I do? We'll put it to a vote. It's interesting that it never happens to you, to interrupt you. I never broke up with someone from the SRS, from the LDP, from the League. Unbelievable. Why just one parliamentary group? I don't know them, I don't care. All I care about is how they behave here. Balša Bozovic, you want to talk about the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6835	I'm using the time of my authorised representative. So I think mocking the victims of violence is when you invite them to stand up, not to be talking about their willingness to talk about it. I think a little bit about what you know when you only invite someone who has suffered domestic violence to get up in public and say that. That's the first thing. The second thing, I'm very moved that you're so concerned about domestic and female violence, you didn't even provide a direct transmission when it comes to this subject. Third thing, it's terrible when you talk...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6836	Was that about the amendment? Now, MP, please, since you keep reminding me when MPs on my right don't talk about the amendment... Is this in RTS transmission now? (Yes) Good. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6837	The third thing, the risk of repeated violence happens in this sense that we do not have in the current legislation the measure of confiscation of weapons obtained legally, not illegally acquired, but obtained by law by registered perpetrators of family violence. (Alexander Martinovic, from the scene: And when did you beat women at the Djeram market? ) Then it happens that someone who had a weapon that he had legally acquired, in 2015 we had a case that the police hadn't taken his weapon, went back to their home and killed six members of his family. That's what I'm talking about. And the law wasn't passed just because Dragan Sutanovac proposed it. (Alexander Martinovic, from the scene: That's the one who beat people at the market. ) There is no reason not to adopt the law on baby theft, but you did not put it on the agenda, only because it was proposed by Alexandra Jerkov. I don't think that's a good practice, that we could have saved many lives, that we could have eliminated the misfortunes of many families and people in that way. But this is all about politics. The obsession is that it comes from the opposite side, from the DS, that it must not be found as a topic of the agenda. Here, and today what I'm saying hurts Mr. Martinovic very much, so he can't somehow be calm in his chair, but he has to yell, he has to scream, he has to interrupt me while I'm talking.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6838	Mr. Balsa Bozovic, it is not even 10% how you behave when Mr. Martinovic speaks.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6839	Well, it's an honor to you to give me a warning during my break. That's what you do, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6840	You received a warning because in the break you requested a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6841	You can't even give me a warning. If I can't get a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you can't even give me a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6842	Don't explain yourself, just keep following your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6843	I'm done, Mr. Arsic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6844	Right on line, MP Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6845	No, I'm sorry, I was looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6846	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, all right.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6847	I've been looking for Article 3 regarding Article 106. – that the speaker can only talk about the agenda point, which Balša Bozovic did not do and he was told to continue speaking according to the amendment, which can be seen and determined from the stenogram. Ambassador Bozovic didn't say anything about the amendment we had ahead of him, but he spoke and attacked MP Marija Obradovic and the way she explained the amendment that was being tabled. So, if we have criteria such that opposition MPs keep reminding us whether or not we're talking about the agenda point, then I think, the chairman, that we should have the same way and with the same criteria and criteria to lead the session and to warn the MP Bozovic, regardless of which he is the opposition, it doesn't mean anything in this room, so we have to be equal here. Being a member of the opposition party and being an MP does not mean that it is worth more than us MPs from the ruling majority. With what right does he allow himself then to keep warning of the violation of the Rules of Procedure when, according to him, the MPs most often jump out of the topic from the SNS. With what right does he allow himself or any other opposition MP, but especially now, and then wanders off and talks about whatever he wants? Please, I won't ask you to vote, because I know that we are often powerless in this room to stick to the Rules of Procedure. I'm not going to ask to vote because I'm most often in a situation where I wave at me from any side of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, so I won't even ask to make a statement for you. Because I know that you can't carry out this Rules of Procedure the most often, except that you keep giving us warnings, which would cause media avalanches and repercussions again and still be attacked by the media, and not those who violate the really Rules of Procedure, except that those who made these Rules simply wanted to apportion the MPs of their responsibility for endangering dignity. Thank you. (Balsa Bozovic, from the city: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) (Maja Gojkovic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6848	Just a minute. I completely agree with you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Someone will think we've agreed, but the problem is that they need time to be in front of cameras and transmissions, and that time they didn't have citizens in the elections, so they have to go through the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, Excess, conflicts, arguments, swearing, to find their place in political life. The word is Maja Gojkovic, a replica. (Balša Bozovic, from the city: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6849	I called to replicate. Give me back, please, the time when this tap stops. It's a little boring. It repeats itself every day.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6850	Just a minute. Mr Bozovicu, the first was a violation of the Rules of Procedure, the second was, therefore, requested at the same time and replica. (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: He can't. Well, you can. (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: He can't. You got it. Because he loses his right to the replica if I give you my first word. Here you go, Mrs. Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6851	Thank you very much. We will then remind MPs of Article 104, which says that by using the rights laid down in Articles 1 and 2 of this article, only the President of the National Assembly or the Chairman shall decide. So please, we've been working for ten months to read everything. The replica was only compared to the direct transmissions of RTS, the MP who spoke of me having to secure this transmission. I don't know if you, MP Balša Bozovic, or anyone from the DS you belong to and whose interests you defend here, ordered the directors of RTS what to do and what not to do. I don't know how to do that. I don't know anyone from SNS. I can't order RTS to have direct transmissions when they inform us that they have something else, that they have contractual obligations, that they've paid for the transfers of some sports competitions. Therefore, if you have any recipe, here, I will empower you on my behalf as Parliament President to order Dragan Bujosevic to transfer direct transfers and I will be very grateful to you, because you will not then be able to attack me but to report to the college and this tide what you have managed to do and how Dragan Bujosevic reacted to what you will order him to perform direct television broadcasts.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6852	Here you go, Mr. Bozovic. Take it easy, you'll all get your turn.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6853	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. So unlike you, I never knew or knew the director of RTS, and it would never occur to me to tell him what his obligations are and what his rights are as director of the Public Media Service of Serbia. What I was worried about was that the transfer was interrupted the moment we entered the hall, "Disable violence, turn off Risticevic". That's when the direct transmission was lifted. When we talked about this important issue of domestic violence, you couldn't listen to the arguments, for two years, that the DS was giving, and when it comes to the confiscation of weapons to registered offenders in the family, and when it comes to the distance of the bully from the family for two weeks. When it comes to stealing babies. Just because they're...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6854	Just tell me what this has to do with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6855	This isn't the Rules of Procedure, it's the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6856	It's a replica now. You've been looking for the Rules of Procedure for a while.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6857	No, I don't. In the meantime, Mr. Arsic, I've changed my mind. So, when it comes to three very important laws, we didn't find them on the agenda just because they were proposed by DS MPs. And today, we are speaking in our care of domestic violence and how domestic violence should be contained, and the risk should be contained, just the amendment in Article 15, and for two years that risk is not contained just because the solution comes from the DS. It's not a debate and it's not a parliament that works and this society can make it better. Just because you're the majority in that parliament, you won't be long. You're melting like a soap opera. Each next election will be elections between two systems of value. One Marjan Risticevic system of values supported by Aleksandar Vukic and another DS. Then we'll see who has the majority. We look forward to the next election for parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6858	Right on line, MP Maja Gojkovic. MAJA GOJKOVIĆ: I thank Ambassador Bozovic for saying this on my behalf that I didn't want to put anything on the agenda just because DS suggested something. Will you be kind, for the sake of the public and Serbia, to say when did you propose the law with this name and this matter to the Assembly? Twelve years you've been in power, twelve years it hasn't entered this House here. Not you, DS. You didn't say - I suggested. You said – she suggested DS, so you didn't want to put it on the agenda. Show me that. Show me about the public. When did the law with this matter, by this name, propose to the parliament of the Republic of Serbia? What year? What date? What month? For twelve years when you were in power. When were you supposed to solve this problem? Well, if we're going to go the way you discussed it a little while ago, that because of our inaction 34 women lost their lives last year and 32 years lost more women and women their lives. Come on, let's add up 12 years of your inaction to see how many women, men and children have lost their lives. Come on, so we're discussing this really important law. No woman deserves this kind of discussion as you started your discussion in this afternoon's part. Just a minute. Alexander Martinovic, injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6860	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. I point out the violation of a 107 member who speaks of the dignity of the National Assembly. Please, take the necessary measures to stop the heik who is being led yesterday and today against MP Marjan Risticevic, among other things and by... . (Blasa Bozovic, from the city: Shame on you. ) Balša Bozovic, who flies in Maldiv, holds the text in front of him – turn off Rističević. Two days, DS, enough, party Boris Tadic has lied and deceived Serbian citizens that MP Marjan Risticevic allegedly called someone's child and banned someone's child from being treated abroad. No one's child attacked. He didn't mention anyone's child, but he said that DS and Shule, that's usually the Shule who beats people in the market. It's usually that Shule guy who loves and respects women so much that he puts money in their bra while they're playing belly dance around him. (Tatyana Macura, from the place: "Aman, man, do you have any shame? ) Therefore, Marjan Risticevic, Mr Arsic, expressed his willingness to apologize for this, if his words were drawn from the context in which no child had mentioned, he did not mention anyone's wife. He mentioned DS and Shulet. It's not child abuse for political purposes. Marjan Risticevic expressed his readiness to apologize, with Marjana Risticevic not being excused by those who spat on him. Marjana Risticevic was not excused by those who cursed his immobile mother. Marinika Tepic did not apologize to Maja Gojkovic for saying she grew up in a radical den. The den is mud where pigs are bathed. They didn't apologize to Marjana Risticevic when they said he needed to be ripped out of his throat, but so Marko Atlagic looks. So, I beg you, Mr. Arsic. Please, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6861	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament Group, that's enough, I know a lot more than you think. I know, and I'm being polite. So behave yourself. This isn't going anywhere anymore. Go on, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6862	So, I ask you to protect the dignity of the National Assembly and to stop the heifer against Marjan Risticevic and against Maja Gojkovic and against all SNS MPs, and I hope that Serbian citizens watch Serbian MPs, MPs Sasa Radulovic, mock all citizens of Serbia. These are the ones who robbed Serbia, those are the people who beat up women. These are the people who carried out the violence. These are the people who committed violence on October 5th 2000 and 2003, and when they beat people at the market and when they insulted Marjan Risticevic and when they insulted Maja Gojkovic. Here, these are the same ones who teach us lessons about non-violence, about democracy, about human rights. Please, Mr. Arsic, take measures to stop the hack against the MPs of the SNS, primarily against Marjan Risticevic and Ms. Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6863	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. I just have one question to ask my colleagues who have made a kind of performance and selfie so far. One question - on the other hand you have 150 MPs, maybe more, what do you think this parliament would look like if they started acting like you? You can't tell me anything. You can't tell me anything. (Saša Radulovic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. Slowly, slowly, there's someone else who's been looking for the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. You're not the only one. First they're going to hurt the Rules of Procedure. [[Balsa Bozovic, from the place: I was looking for a replica.]] Maja Gojkovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6864	Thank you. I called when the chaos started in the O.R. I seek the violation of the Rules of Procedure, meaning, Article 107, that the speaker at the sitting is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, that no direct address is allowed, that the use of offensive expressions is not allowed, etc. Article 108. - that you take care of the order at this session, that you are obliged to give notice, take words or distance from session and Article 109 which speaks of MPs who can receive a sentence from Article 107, to request and receive a word, etc., despite the notices of the Assembly, make it impossible to work at the sitting and other proceedings to violate the order of the sitting or act against the provisions of this Rules of Procedure. This time it is really in the most drastic way possible, after the event when Marijan Risticevic was cursed by MPs enough was, when he was spit on by MPs enough was enough, this is the most dramatic thing, because the distracted speaker was to bring injury to the Rules of Procedure that referred to the threat of Parliament's dignity. You are obliged to establish order in this room, regardless of what MPs are involved in opposition parties, because they are worth nothing more than MPs on this side, the ruling majority, and don't let them imagine that they are dividing Serbia into those who are worth more and less and that they are allowed to swear and insult here and distract speakers and MPs who are also a large part of the citizens of this country who voted for these representatives. (Mihajlović Branislav, from town: Time. That's the only thing you can say, which is to warn someone on time. Can I get a breach of the Rules of Procedure one more time because I've been handed MPs?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6865	Yes, you can. Two more minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6866	It takes me time to quote the provisions, and the experts for the Rules of Procedure will manage themselves. A member of 105 this time. You've allowed me to receive MPs from the MPs' group enough is enough and to do what you need to do, to lead this session. I ask you to allow all MPs in this House the right to speak, because we are representatives of the citizens of Serbia who voted for us. Please, the chairman, to allow representatives of the ruling majority of MPs, representatives of Serbian citizens on this right hand side of you, to have the right to participate in this parliament's work just as it allows the opposition. Please, so many violations of the Rules of Procedure, use and warn them...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6867	I'm trying, but how am I supposed to explain to people who are asking us to hand over one MP and take away his mandate? How can such people, how can I prove to them that they should behave civilised and normal and not destroy Parliament's dignity? The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. (Maya Vidinović, from town: How? )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6868	Mr. Arsic, I point out the violation of Article 27, because the hack against SNS MPs and against Mr. Marijan Risticevic continues. (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: Because he is ashamed! ) Mr. Marijan Risticevic has been two days... Just you, Balsha, show me, you learned that in the Maldives, probably. So, Marijan Risticevic, ladies and gentlemen and respected Serbian citizens, has been put on a pillar of shame for two days by those who have robbed Serbia, who have ruined it and who have committed violence against women today, because he has published exact data as a member of the RFZO Management Board. I will now repeat that information, so that the citizens of Serbia know what the hack is up to against Marijan Risticevic. (Balša Bozovic, from the city: Shame on you! Just let them yell. Balsha is a great hero, he beats people who sell apples at Jaram's market along with Shulet. Please, Mr. Arsic, let's get this information out. So Marijan Risticevic is the biggest villain in Serbia because he presented data that in 2015, RFZO provided treatment abroad for 485 insured persons, of which 306 children and 179 adults, totalling 505 million dinars. In the period from January 1st to September 30th 2016, Mr Marijan Risticevic also said, and announced on his Twitter account, 472 insured persons were treated abroad for the cost of RFZO. 285 million dinars were spent and during this period, therefore, for the first nine months of 2016, RFZO hired foreign experts who treated insured persons in Serbia in health institutions in Serbia and that service was used by 11 insured persons. In their time, when they ruled, children could not be treated abroad. I can now. Only because Marijan Risticevic made it public for two days is hectic against Marijan Risticevic and against the SNS. The Serbian Progressive Party will not allow it, so let them shout as much as Balsa and Shule and this thief Sasa Radulovic and everyone else will.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6869	The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Markovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. (Srjan Nogo, from the place: How can he before me? I'm authorized. ) (Balša Bozovic, from the city: Shame on you! You're really ashamed of yourself! Ask for another word, we're having trouble with the system.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6870	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 109. The warning is made to the MP who approached the speaker without the permission of the president of the National Assembly, who spoke before he asked and received his word. We had an example here of Mr Bozovic, who, despite the warning of the president of the National Assembly, is talking about a question that is not on the agenda, if he interrupts the speaker in the exhibition or throws away, that is, distracting the speaker, what the entire DS parliamentary group is doing, but also the DJ. But in addition, the dignity of the National Assembly has been drastically violated for the last hour when no MP group has worn any banners here, see, please, insults, says: “Disable violence, turn off Risticevic. ” If the state action "Disable violence" and SNS MPs wore "Disable violence" T-shirts, but this is inadmissible what they do with Mr. Marijan Risticevic, who was elected to this National Assembly to be a National MP. He was elected by the citizens. And who's accusing him? He is accused by MPs of parties whose several party presidents were known for having committed drastic violence, the worst possible violence in his family, whose representative Dragan Gilas hit people when he was president of the DS, in Ralja, in Sopot, whose MP while representing the Smederjevska Palanka municipality was known for only one thing, except that he had eaten Smederjevska Palanka, that he was beating people, literally beating people. Branislav Petrovic is 63 years old, from Smederevska Palanka is a citizen who filed a criminal charges against Radoslav Milojic, the DS MP, that he beat him with his fists and feet, a man of 63 years, and sits in this National Assembly and honours violence.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6871	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6872	There's just been a violation of the Rules of Procedure in 108, and you had to... (Balša Bozovic, from town: I advertise Article 108.) Chairman, will you give me my time? (Balsa Bozovic, from the post: Not twice the same member. ) I ask you to give me back my time since you spoke to Ambassador Markovic, and they refer to the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6873	I'm sorry, we'll count more. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6874	Did you give it back to me? Thank you. So, just as MP Aleksandar Martinovic held his discussion about how the opposition MPs treat MPs here... I'm setting a five-minute break. Mr. Bozovic, stop taking pictures of me. (Balsa Bozovic, from town: Pause is. Stop taking pictures of me, I didn't let you do it. It is my right to forbid you to photograph me. (Balsa Bozovic, from the post: This is selfie, Mrs Gojkovic. ) I ask MPs of the DJB Group not to cause incidents. Goran Jesic throws. Thank you very much, Ambassador Jesic. Thank you. Goran Jesic throws. I will never keep my mouth shut, whether it's the MPs of the opposition or the positions. So, I'll take it out every time, because your president doesn't have the truth about him. Are you going to introduce new rules that SNS MPs are not allowed to say anything, only you can say it? You won't insult us. Goran Jesic throws. You don't react when a messenger tells me I'm a pig. Shame on you. Goran Jesic throws. Of course I can talk because I don't let anyone insult me. I don't let you insult me. Put that away and don't make a move because the Shutanovac wants that heifer to take his responsibility for what he did with the women in the photo. It's very clear what you're doing. You're trying to cancel it. There's no such thing as analizing the behavior of Dragan Sutanovac. (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: The sick children of their colleagues. ) Please do not use those arguments. Shame on you. Shame on you, that stripper and what your president did hide behind a big tragedy. That's the bottom of it for me. It's a border for me some politician can pass on. (Balsa Bozovic, from town: No, Marijan Risticevic is an image of Serbia. That is the limit for me for you to take part in the training of Dragan Sutanovac to hide that from the other day. (Balša Bozovic, from town: Marijan Rističević's border is for us. Shame on you. ) I ask the MPs of the DJB Group to stop causing incidents, to leave MPs of the SNS group alone, to return to their benches and show the desire to really want to work in parliament. Thank you. The break's over. National MP Gorica Gajic submitted to the 15th amendment. I took a break to make order. The word is Gorica Gajic. (Maya Vidinović, from the city: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) (Balša Bozovic, from the city: Rules of Procedure. ) (Goran Ješić, from the post: Rules of Procedure. If you want, speak, if I don't move on. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6876	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6877	I ask MPs from the DJB Movement to allow Gorica Gajic to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6878	When it is suspected that there is a direct danger of violence and when violence is reported, then the police officer has an obligation to collect all information and all information, first of all from his environment, from the police, and this previous amendment, we have told the previous member that he is obliged to collect information from the social work centre, because always social work centres are somehow in that basket when violence happens. It is then said in the view of the first member that the risk assessment following the collected information is required to be expressed as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6879	Keep your voice down. Please, just be quiet. Keep talking, but keep it down. (Balša Bozovic, from the city: Rules of Procedure. ) I ask MP Balša Bozovic, if I don't mind, communicating with MEP Gorica Gajic, who wants to discuss...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6880	I think this is a formulation as soon as possible...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6881	Ambassador Balša Bozovic, I give you a warning, I cannot allow... (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: Which one in a row? That's what the Management Board will do. (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: Okay, great. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6882	Since a competent police officer assesses the risk of violence and brings an emergency. Question is, what's a shorter deadline? Some police officer will estimate it's two hours, someone's gonna take eight hours, someone's gonna take all day to collect information that he's collected and bring in an emergency. With this amendment, I've armed that time for six hours. You, Miss Secretary, can judge if it's shorter, so it may be ten hours, but it's important to arm a time in which a police officer is required to assess the risk and to give a measure later. I'm telling you, it's gonna take someone two hours, and someone's gonna call for that formulation to be shorter and shorter all day, and you know how much that vacuum is when violence is potentially reported or even more, if it happens.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6883	Ambassador Macura, you have three warnings. The emissaries of Tatjana Macura stick to the Rules of Procedure, you have three warnings. Three warnings, you must leave, according to this agenda point, the O.R. She won't, Miss Macura won't respect the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. Let's move on. No, I took a break to make order, and this is what you've been calling before, no. He has submitted to Article 15 of the amendment... (Balša Bozovic, from the city: Rules of Procedure. ) Balsa Bozovic, gets another warning and a distance from the session. (Balša Bozovic, from the city: Shame on you. ) Measures of distance from the session, because you're screaming, now you're at me. It's over. (Balša Bozovic, from the city: Shame on you. It's not worth it to you. It's over, the distance measure from the session. Dot. (Balša Bozovic, from the city: Shame on you. Do you understand me? Balša Bozovic does not exist at this session now. Maja Vidinović, come in. Don't yell at me. (Balša Bozovic, from the city: Shame on you. I'm glad I'm trying to run a session right now, to discuss the law. (Balša Bozovic, from town: Shame on you! Shame on you! ) Well, I was ashamed, thank you very much, Commissioner Balša Bozovic, in your primitive, publicly spoken position. You didn't let me... (Balsa Bozovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure, I have the right to ask for a word. But you're off the table. (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: Here, I did not. Get me out of here. All right, yeah. We're going to get to the end of the session, and then we're going to do it the other day, in a different, cultural way. What you consider culture, I'm sorry. (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: This is a real shame, shame on you. Shame on you! I'm glad you're the one who determines the criteria of shame... (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: No, but you're establishing? )......................................................................................................... Because you told Ambassador Alexander Martinovic, as he spoke, that he was a donkey and you didn't allow me to harm the Rules of Procedure here, when I wanted to bring it out... (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: I never said that in my life. That's not true. I didn't say. )......................................................................................................... Because DJB MPs immediately went and attacked SNS MPs. (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: How are you not ashamed? You're telling the truth. That's a lie. ) Thank you, you are the one who will determine the criteria, probably your constituents, which is a shame. That's right. (Maya Vidinovic, from the place: That is not true. ) Will you enable Maja Vidinović to hurt the Rules of Procedure, you who are away from the session? So, article 114, you have two warnings, you've been taken from your word, you have a distance from the session of MP Balša Bozovic. You have more measures to violate order at the National Assembly session, which are finally being collected and the highest fine applied. All in accordance with Article 114, which will be applied immediately on the next working day, since we will not be making here the chaos that you want to make here. I will not invite the members of the MUP to apply this sentence, although it is their jurisdiction, because I do not want to participate in the game you want to dictate here. Violence won't go away with me. Here you go, Maja Vidinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6884	Madam President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Majo Gojkovic, no roar will be louder than what I want to tell you. To begin by calling for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I specifically remind you of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 107(2), Article 109, paragraph 7, 8 and until the end. So, it's outrageous, I address you as president of the National Assembly, as representatives of all of us, we are representatives of the citizens. Citizens feel ashamed of the way you run this congregation today and what's going on. We're talking about a law here today that should prevent domestic violence. We today, yesterday and the day before yesterday had an unremembered, brutal insult to the victims by MP Marijan Risticevic. Yesterday it progressed and he insulted the children, we had silence inadmissible... (Branislav Mihajlovic, from the post: Madam President, to me the gentleman does not let me pass. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6885	I give notice to Ambassador Branislav Mihajlovic, for he shouts here. (Branislav Mihajlović, from the post: Please president, intervene. He won't let me through. I give a second warning to the Messenger Mihailovic. (Branislav Mihajlovic, from the post: It endangers my constitutional right, not to let me pass in the National Assembly. ) I declare to MP Branislav Mihajlovic, who himself took the word and distracted Ambassador Maja Vidinovic in the injury of the Rules of Procedure, the third, which is the measure of distance from the session. (Branislav Mihajlović, from the place: Please ask Mr... Ambassador, be polite. I don't know what your miles are educational, cultural, please be polite. (Branislav Mihajlovic, from the place: Ask the gentleman not to push me. This isn't yours, this isn't ours, this is folk. Please ask the gentleman to let me through. Please be quiet, this is interesting. I ask the messengers to be quiet. (Branislav Mihajlovic, from the post: This is the national parliament. This is not the SNS Assembly, this is the Serbian Citizens' Assembly, shame on you. Aren't you ashamed, Madam President? Aren't you ashamed of this people? You're not letting us use our basic freedom. Shame on you! Shame on you, Mr. President! Ask the gentleman to let me go. Give me a warning or call security to get me out of the O.R., Madam President! You're ashamed of anything you're doing! The people will hear this! You're ashamed of anything you're doing! Your tracks will smell of inhumanity, as Mr. Arsic said yesterday. You, Madam President, allow me, shame on you! Call security to get me out, please. I can only call a doctor because you're not feeling well. Otherwise, I can tell the MPs, there's no point in this any more, who want to leave the session to have a pass here completely free, to have a passage here, here, here. (Branislav Mihajlovic, from the place: You cannot determine where we will pass. You're off session. Don't be violent. Now I understand why DS is failing. (Balsa Bozovic, from the post: You did not exclude me from the session. I've excluded you from the session. I'll think about it when you stop screaming, yelling, yelling, insulting, attacking MPs. (Branislav Mihajlovic, from the place: Let me pass. ) I have a conflicting question – why here? Is that allowed? Show me a member of the Rules of Procedure about it. I'm not going to interrupt the session on purpose. I want the citizens of Serbia to see this. I want them to see how DJB MPs behave, everything with vocabulary, shouting, screaming, threats. Ambassador Sasa Radulovic will stop photographing lawmakers who do not want to do so. It's their privacy. (Tatyana Macura throws, out of place: why don't you let me through? Mr. Tatjana Macura, you have been disfellowshipped from this session. All warnings have been made. With what right do you insult and threaten an MP, Aleksandr Martinovic, who is sitting, is turned his back? (Tatjana Macura, from the place: Martinovic said – stop there so as not to pass. You're off session. Don't wave your hand over his head. You're threatening him. (Tatjana Macura, from the place: Don't shake me. You're not a teacher. Martinovic said stop right there so I don't pass. Martinovic told his colleague to stand there so I couldn't pass. You're disfellowshipped from the session, MPs. Will you let the MP leave the session because she's off? She is disfellowshipped from the session and I am glad that there are MPs who voluntarily want to respect the measures expressed by the chairman. Is there anyone else willing to comply with these measures and leave the session? Here you go, Goran Jesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6886	Rules of Procedure, Rule 108. All right, at the National Assembly meeting, the president of the National Assembly is taking care of, and that's you. You obviously don't do it right. You began to violate the laws of physics when you gave yourself a replica of Mr. Arsic's presidency. I'm glad you felt the need to defend what took place yesterday towards... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-18-0.u6887	Ambassador, Bozovic, you are not from the session. I'm going to ask the Administrative Committee to discuss you specifically. (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: Come on. How – come on? I'm not at the bar to understand that dictionary. (Goran Jesic, from the place: give me back my word.) Yes, I'll pay you back. Calm down your MP Bozovic, please. Calm down this bar behavior because the MP is not even present at the session. According to the Rules of Procedure, he's off. (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: Come on, please. ) Primitiveism never ends, MP Bozovic. I didn't expect anything more from you. Really. As you abstained, you held back, and it was all a farce. (Goran Jesic:, from the place Can I continue? I cannot allow you to insult Ambassador Marijan Risticevic. He's an MP. He's a man and a representative of the citizens of this country. You can't talk. You can't talk. You can't. I won't allow it. (Goran Jesic, from the place: I did not finish. You've already said and I'm giving you a warning for that. You can't say about the Messenger, that. (Goran Jesic, from the place: I won't.) Can I finish? No, because you asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure to offend Ambassador Marijan Rističević. (Goran Jesic, from the place: Take a look at the hall, which you have in the hall. No, you're all in the O.R. (Goran Jesic, from the scene: So who did you throw out, the whole session? You have no idea who you threw out. ) I am far from Gordana Komic and Natasa Micic who have expelled all MPs who were not present at the session, nor in the parliament building of the Republic of Serbia. (Goran Jesic, from the place: Yes. You're a long way from Gordana Komic. Will you give me the word Mayo? I'm not for you, Maya. (Goran Ješić, from town: Our Maja. I'm not for you - our Maya. Act culturally. Don't treat women who deal with politics that way. This is violence exactly by a member we've been trying to discuss here all afternoon. (Goran Jesic, from the place: Majo, may I finish? I won't let you finish. You're abusing the Rules of Procedure. You attacked me during the session, and I started the session here at 3:15 p.m. when one of the breaks was made because there was chaos here. Therefore, I do not allow you to abuse the Rules of Procedure. Can MPs be kind enough for everyone to sit in their seats and keep working? (Dusan Pavlovic throws. Nobody's defending you, MP. (Goran Jesic, from the place: Is it your turn in the hall? Is that a member of the Rules of Procedure? ) Members of the DJB parliamentary group have done all of this to get out of that passage because it is vital to you. Come out now. You've made all this mess about this. I give a warning to Ambassador Sasa Radulovic. [[Saša Radulovic applauds.]] (Branka Stamenkovic, from the city: "What about me?" I also give you a warning about uncultural behavior, about the harassment of the MPs of the SNS. I apologize to the MPs of the SNS and MPs of the ruling majority, as well as other MPs, for experiencing these days this kind of behaviour destructively from the individual MPs of this House who are making it impossible for us to do what we are elected here to do. You have my great apology. (Balša Bozovic, from town: Thank you. I didn't apologize to you. You've been warned. (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: We do not accept. ) I am pleased that Balsa Bozovic has enthusiasm although she is not still there to allow MPs and MPs to discuss one of the most important laws we have on this agenda of this autumn session, which would at least try and enable, at least a little to prevent violence against women in this country. (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: I'm missing. I'll think about it. Now I'm going to tell you something. I need a moment to think, I'm not an instant man, I'm not an instant politician, I can't quickly send messages meaningless, mostly on social networks, or on a microphone, so I can't talk fast, I can't rub around, I think the amount of words that are spoken is the essence. This session today, during today's day, what we've been trying to do is we've come to work, out of the majority, out of the opposition, I won't go on. I'll take a break to think about it. This is how people thought slowly while domestic education, education, and so on. They didn't rush. The Latins always said "breathing" – hurry slowly. Don't confuse me with making decisions slowly. I don't think it's a virtue if you come up with some solutions quickly, so I'm going to take a few days to think about everything, to think about this Parliament's call and see what I'm doing, because there's obviously a deep misunderstanding here what this parliament of the Republic of Serbia is and what it's doing, and whether it's necessary for the Serbian Parliament to have a president and whether or not someone here has come here with the intention of destroying parliament and dissipating all of this, and obviously it is. I'll let you know at 10:00 on Tuesday, we'll be in the O.R. here, and I'll tell you what I've made. Someone's gonna go home and someone's gonna think. Apparently, we didn't all have the same kind of tea here when we were supposed to, when we were little or white coffee. My generation knows what it means, and these new ones, who think that the policy of sending fast messages, without any responsibility for content, messages that millions of people will read, so to entertain themselves, judge MPs here, are not allowed to defend these MPs, such as Marijan Risticevic, they are missed. They probably deserve the president to be someone else, who has more understanding for parliamentaryism in 2016 in the Republic of Serbia. I'll see you Tuesday at 10:00, what can I tell you? I'd like you to think about it. I know that those I've been sending these messages to sit down, photographing TV, tweeting, mocking, etc., and maybe they have the ability to think until Tuesday at 10:00, maybe, because I don't think I'm the only one who should be thinking on behalf of 250 MPs. Thank you. [[The session was suspended at 17.45 p.m.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 115 MPs. Please, in order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the Members of Parliament to insert your cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 114 MPs are present in the hall and that we have conditions for continuing today's work. Whether one of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? Bosko Obradović. Here you go.
