ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-0.u12588	I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Alexander Chabrai submitted to the 35th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members 36th and member of the 36th amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five Social Democratic Party MPs, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 36th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members of the 37th and Article 37th Amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 11 MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 37th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members of the 38th and Article 38th Amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members of the 39th and member of the 39th amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members of the 40th and member of the 40th amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 11 MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted to the 40th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri Group submitted to the 40th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five Social Democratic Party MPs, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 40th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above member 41 and member of the 41st amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS National Movement of Serbia submitted to the 41st amendment. The proposing representative accepted this amendment during the review of the draft law in particular. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 132, v – two, abstention – no one. I find this amendment accepted. 11 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 41st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Sonja Pavlovic submitted to the 41st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 41st Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—four, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of the above member of the 42nd and member of the 42nd amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—four, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no amendment has been accepted. 11 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the amendment 42. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—four, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Sonja Pavlovic submitted to the 42nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Five MPs from the SDS National Movement of Serbia submitted to the amendment 42nd. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—four, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find this amendment accepted. On behalf of the members of the 43rd and the 43rd amendment, MP Gordana Comic tabled. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 43rd amendment with a correction was filed by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—four, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 43rd amendment with the correction was filed by the National MP Sonja Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Five MPs from the SDS National Movement of Serbia submitted to the 43rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find this amendment accepted. On behalf of the members of the 44th and the 44th Amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—five, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Five MPs from the SDS National Movement of Serbia submitted to the 44th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find this amendment accepted. The 44th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Momo Colakovic and Miroljub Stankovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Five MPs from the LSV Group – the Green Party submitted to the 44th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—six, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find this amendment accepted. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 44th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, self-sustained, for seven, against them. I find this amendment accepted. The 44th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no amendment has been accepted. MP Dusan Pavlovic's people submitted an amendment proposing that a new member of 44a be added after article 44a. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of members of the 45th and the 45th Amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—four, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Five MPs from the SDS National Movement of Serbia submitted to the 45th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find this amendment accepted. Members of the 45th Amendment were submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic, MPs Momo Colaković and Miroljub Stankovic, 11 MPs of the DS group and five MPs of the LSV group – Green Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—12, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find this amendment accepted. On behalf of members of the 46th and member of the 46th Amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—five, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 46 of the amendment, the MP LJupka Mihajlovska submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of members 47th and Article 47th of the amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—five, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 47th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of members 48th and Article 48th of the amendment, MP Gordana Komic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—four, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Five MPs of the LSV Group – the Green Party submitted to the 48th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—four, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find this amendment accepted. Five MPs from the SDS National Movement of Serbia submitted to the 48th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find this amendment accepted. On behalf of members 49th and Article 49th of the amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 49th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no amendment has been accepted. 11 MPs of the DS Group and seven MPs of the Dveri group submitted to the amendment of the 49th in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, self-sustained, for seven, against them. I find this amendment accepted. On behalf of the 50th and the 50th amendment, MP Gordana Komic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Six MPs from the LDP-SDA Sandzak parliamentary group submitted to the 50th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find this amendment accepted. Five MPs from the SDS National Movement of Serbia submitted to the 50th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find this amendment accepted. Four MPs from the Social Democratic Party of Serbia have submitted to the 50th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—11, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find this amendment accepted. Members of the 50th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by the MPs of Alexander Chabrai and 11 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Sonja Pavlovic submitted to the 50th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 50th Amendment was submitted by MPplatmir Stevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 50th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Dusan Pavlovic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 50a be added after article 50a. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – two against – one with abstention. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Section 2, the name above members 51 and member of the 51st amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Gordana Comic and 11 MPs from the DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of the members and members of the 51st Amendment, seven MPs from the Dveri Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of members of the 52nd and member of the 52nd amendment, in the same text, MPs Gordana Comic and 11 MPs of the DS group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The People's MP, Alexander Chabrai, submitted to the 52nd Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 52nd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 52nd amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of members of the 53rd and member of the 53rd amendment, in the same text, MPs Gordana Comic and 11 MPs of the DS group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Sonja Pavlovic submitted to the 53rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 53rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of members of the 54th and member of the 54th Amendment, in the same text, MPs Gordana Comic and 11 MPs of the DS group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 54th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Branko Stamenkovic submitted to the 54th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Ana Stevanovic submitted to the 54th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of members of the 55th and of the 55th Amendment, in the same text, MPs Gordana Comic and 11 MPs of the DS group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 55th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of members of the 56th and member of the 56th Amendment, in the same text, MPs Gordana Comic and 11 MPs of the DS group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 56th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 56th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of members of the 57th and member of the 57th Amendment, in the same text, MPs Gordana Comic and 11 MPs of the DS group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 57th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 57th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Chapter IV, the name above members 58th and Article 58th of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 58th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 58 of the amendment, in the same text, 11 MPs from the DS group and seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. At the title above the 59th and the 59th amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of members of the 60th and member of the 60th Amendment, MP Gordana Komic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The name above the 61st and the 61st amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Sonja Pavlovic submitted to the 61st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 61st Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 61st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. 11 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 61st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 61st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of a member above members 62nd and a member of the 62nd amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 62nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. A member of the title above the 63rd and a member of the 63rd amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Branko Stamenkovic submitted to the 63rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 63rd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Five MPs of the LSV Group – the Green Party submitted to the 63rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 63rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. A member of the title above the 64th and the 64th amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 64th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Branko Stamenkovic submitted to the 64th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. 11 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 64th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of a member above the 65th and the 65th Amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. A member of the title above the 66th and the 66th amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Sonja Pavlovic submitted to the 66th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. A member of the title above the 67th and the 67th amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. A member of the title above the 68th and the 68th amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. A member of the title above the 69th and a member of the 69th amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 69th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Chapter 5, Section 1 and Article 70 of the amendment was tabled by MP Gordana Komic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Sonja Pavlovic submitted to the 70th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 70th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MPs Momo Colakovic and Miroljub Stankovic submitted together to the 70th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Five MPs of the LSV Group – the Green Party submitted to the 70th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. A member of the title above article 71 and a member of the 71st amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Five MPs from the SDS-NPS group submitted the amendment to Article 71. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of a member above members of the 72nd and member of the 72nd amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Branka Stamenkovic submitted to Article 72 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Five MPs from the SDS-NPS group submitted to Article 72 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of a member above members 73rd and a member of the 73rd amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. A member of the title above members 74th and a member of the 74th amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Five MPs from the SDS-NPS group submitted to Article 74 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. A member of the title above the 75th and the 75th amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. A member of the title above the 76th and the 76th amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. A member of the title above the 77th and the 77th amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On section 2, the name above the 78th and the 78th amendments in the same text were submitted by MP Gordana Comic and 11 MPs from the Democratic Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 78th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Sonja Pavlovic submitted to the 78th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. In the same text, Members of the 79th and 79th Amendment, MPs Gordana Comic and 11 MPs of the DS Group submitted the name above. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Sonja Pavlovic submitted to the 79th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Seven MPs from the Dveri Group submitted to the 79th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 79th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Section 3, the name above Articles 80 and 80 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Gordana Comić and 11 of the MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of members 81 and of the 81st Amendment, in the same text, MPs Gordana Comic and 11 MPs from the DS Parliament group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 81st Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of members of the 82nd and of the 82nd Amendment, in the same text, MPs Gordana Komic and 11 MPs of the DS Group of Members submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of members of the 83rd and member of the 83rd Amendment, in the same text, MPs Gordana Comic and 11 MPs from the DS Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 83rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of members of the 84th and of the 84th Amendment, in the same text, MPs Gordana Comic and 11 MPs of the DS Group of Members submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of members of the 85th and of the 85th Amendment, in the same text, MPs Gordana Comic and 11 MPs of the DS Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Four MPs from the Social Democratic Party of Serbia submitted to the 85th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 85th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Branko Stamenkovic submitted to the 85th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of members of the 86th and of the 86th Amendment, in the same text, MPs Gordana Komic and 11 MPs of the DS Parliamentary Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of members of the 87th and member of the 87th Amendment, in the same text, MPs Gordana Komic and 11 MPs of the DS Group of Members submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 87th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Chapter VI, Section 1, the name above the 88th and the 88th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Section 2, the name above the 89th and the 89th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic to article 89. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 89th Amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 89 of the amendment, in the same text, 11 MPs of the DS Group and seven MPs of the Dveri Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of members of the 90th and member of the 90th Amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Sonja Pavlovic submitted to the 90th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. To the title above Articles 91 and Article 91 of the amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 91st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 91st Amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Section 3, the name above members 92 and the 92nd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 92 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Aleksandar Stevanovic, with a correction, and a separate MP, Branka Stamenkovic, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of members of the 93rd and Article 93th Amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of a member of the 94th and a member of the 94th amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 94th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 94th Amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of members of the 95th and the 95th Amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 95th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. 11 MPs of the DS Group submitted to the 95th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. To the title above the 96th and the 96th Amendment, in the same text, the MPs Gordana Komic and Branka Stamenkovic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and find that there is no one with abstentions for – two, against – no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 96th Amendment with correction was filed by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I find that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of members of 97th and Article 97th of the amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I find that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 97 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Branka Stamenkovic and the separate MP Aleksandar Stevanovic, submitted with a correction. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and find that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of members 98th and Article 98th of the amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and find that there is no one with abstentions for – two, against – no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 98th of the amendment with a correction, MP Aleksandar Stevanovic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I find that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Seven MPs from the Dveri Group submitted to Article 98 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and find that there is no one with abstentions for – three, against – no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of members of the 99th and of the 99th Amendment, in the same text, MP Gordana Komic and MP Branka Stamenkovic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and find that there is no one with abstentions for – two, against – no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 99th Amendment with correction was filed by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I find that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Seven MPs from the Dveri Group submitted to the 99th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and find that there is no one with abstentions for – three, against – no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of the 100th member and member of the 100th amendment, MP Gordana Komic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and find that there is no one with abstentions for – two, against – no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 100th Amendment with correction was filed by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and find that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Seven MPs from the Dveri Group submitted to the 100th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and find that there is no one with abstentions for – three, against – no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of the above member 101 and member of the 101st amendment, MP Gordana Komic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and find that there is no one with abstentions for – two, against – no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 101st amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic and the separate MP Aleksandar Stevanovic, with a correction. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and find that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. At the title above Article 102 and Article 102 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People, Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and find that there is no one with abstentions for – two, against – no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Seven MPs from the Dveri Group submitted the amendment to Article 102. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and find that there is no one with abstention for – four, against – none. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 102, the amendment with correction was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and find that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of members of 103 and member of the 103rd amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and find that there is no one with abstentions for – two, against – no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Section IV, the name above Article 104 and Article 104 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Gordana Komic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and find that there is no one with abstentions for – two, against – no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of members 105 and Article 105 of the amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and find that there is no one with abstentions for – two, against – no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. At the title above the 106th and the 106th amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and find that there is no one with abstentions for – two, against – no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. 11 MPs of the Democratic Party Group submitted to the 106th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and find that there is no one with abstentions for – two, against – no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Five MPs from the Social Democrats of the League of the League of Social Democrats, the Green Party, submitted to the 106th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and find that there is no one with abstentions for – five, against – none. I find that no amendment has been accepted. At the title above the 107th and the 107th amendment, MP Gordana Komic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and find that there is no one with abstentions for – two, against – no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. At the title above the 108th and the 108th amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and find that there is no one with abstentions for – two, against – no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Section V, the name above the member 109th and the article 109th amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Komic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and find that there is no one with abstentions for – two, against – no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Branko Stamenkovic submitted to Article 109 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and find that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Five MPs from the Social Democrats of the League of the League of the Socialists, the Green Party, submitted to Amendment 109. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I find that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. 11 MPs of the Democratic Party Group submitted to the 109th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I find that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of members 110th and Article 110th of the amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I find that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Branko Stamenkovic submitted to the 110th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and find that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The name above Articles 111 and 111 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and find that there is no one with abstentions for – two, against – no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment was submitted to Article 111 by National MP Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and find that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Chapter VII, Section I, the name above Article 112 and Article 112 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People, Gordana Komic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and find that there is no one with abstentions for – two, against – no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic to Article 112. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I find that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 112, the amendment was submitted by National MP Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and find that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of members 113 and Article 113, the amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I find that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic to Article 113. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I find that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment was submitted by National MP Branka Stamenkovic to Article 113. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and find that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of the above members and Article 114, the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Branka Stamenkovic to Article 114. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of the above member and member, 115th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Section 2 the name above the members and Article 116 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of the above members and Article 117, the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of the above member and article 118, the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic to Article 118. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Five MPs from the SDS, the NPS, submitted the amendment to Article 118. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On the 3rd name of the member and member of the 119th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of the above member and member of the 120th amendment, MP Gordana Komic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of the above member and member of the 121st amendment, MP Gordana Komic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 121st Amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Chapter VIII, the name above the members and Article 122 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of the above member and member of the 123rd amendment, MP Gordana Komic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of the above members and Article 124, the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to Article 124 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Eleven MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to Article 124 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of the above member and member of the 125th amendment, MP Gordana Komic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 125th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of the above members and Article 126, the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of the above member and member of the 127th amendment, MP Gordana Komic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of the above member and member of the 128th amendment, MP Gordana Komic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Five MPs from the LSV-ZS group submitted to Article 128 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of the above member and member of the 129th Amendment, MP Gordana Komic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic to Article 129. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of the above member and member of the 130th amendment, MP Gordana Komic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of the above members and of the 131st amendment, MP Gordana Komic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Chapter IX, the name above the member and Article 132 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment was submitted to Article 132 by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to Article 132 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Five MPs from the SDS, the NPS, submitted to Article 132 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment was submitted to Article 132 by the People's MP, Alexander Chabrai. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of the above member and member of the 133th amendment, MP Gordana Komic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 13th Amendment was submitted by 11 MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the amendment to Article 133. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic submitted the amendment to Article 133. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of members 134 and Article 134 of the amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 134th amendment was submitted by seven MPs from the Dveri group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic to Article 134. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members 135 and member of the 135th Amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic to Article 135. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which proposes to add new members of 135a and 135b to the post-members, submitted five MPs to the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Movement of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter X, the title above the 136th and the 136th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members 137 and Article 137, the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members 138 and member of the 138th Amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above member 139th and member 139th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 11 MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted to the 139th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Sonja Pavlovic to Article 139. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members of 140th and member of the 140th amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 11 MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 140th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 140th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 140th Amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Sonja Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MP Stefana Miladanovic submitted to the 140th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 14 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 140 of the amendment was tabled by MPplatmir Stevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 140th amendment, with a correction, was filed by MP Snezana Paunovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 14 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the 141st member and member of the 141st amendment, MP Gordana Komic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 141st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Sonja Pavlovic submitted to the 141st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members 142 and Article 142, the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Sonja Pavlovic to Article 142. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members 143 and member of the 143rd amendment, MP Gordana Komic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members 144 and Article 144 of the amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members 145 and Article 145 of the amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 11 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 145th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 145th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 145th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Goran Bogdanovic and Nenad Konstantinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Miroslav Aleksic and Zdravko Stankovic together submitted the 145th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Sonja Pavlovic to Article 145. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members 146 and Article 146 of the amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted to Article 146 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 11 MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted to Article 146 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members 147 and Article 147 of the amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted to Article 147 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members of 148th and 148th Amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members of 149th and Article 149th of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the title above the 150th and the 150th amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 11 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 150th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members 151 and Article 151 of the amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the title above Articles 152 and 152 of the amendment in the same text, MPs Gordana Komic and five MPs of the LSV – Green Party submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members of 153 and of the 153rd Amendment in the same text, MP Gordana Komic and five MPs of the LSV – Green Party submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 153rd amendment were submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic and 11 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 153rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted to Article 153 by the Assembly of the Dveri. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above 154th and of the 154th Amendment in the same text, MP Gordana Komic and five MPs, LSV – Green Party, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic to Article 153. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above 155th member and member of the 155th amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members 156 and Article 156 of the amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 156, the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members 157 and Article 157 of the amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 157th Amendment was submitted by MP Sonja Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted an amendment to Article 157. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 11 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to Article 157 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above 158th member and member of the 158th amendment, the People's MP Gordana Comic tabled. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Dear People’s MPs, I was informed by the National Assembly to adopt several amendments to Article 41. The proposal for a law arises in the situation referred to in Article 165. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, namely that the adoption of these amendments, led to the need for the committee responsible to submit a new amendment to bring the amendments adopted together and the text of the draft law. I therefore set a ten-minute break and ask that the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications meet immediately and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and submit the necessary amendment, i.e. the report in Hall 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-0.u12589	Before we continue to decide, we need to determine the quorum. Please insert your cards into the MPs' units. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 139 MPs are present in the hall. You have been given an amendment to the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications and the Report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – 137. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the bill on housing and building maintenance, as a whole. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 134, against – five abstentions – no, not one. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on housing and building maintenance. We move to the 17th item of the agenda – Proposal FOR A SUBPORT OF DANCY SERVANT I am putting to the vote the proposal for a law on the transport of dangerous goods, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 138, v – one, abstention – two, did not vote one. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. 12 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, with abstentions, voted 138 for – four against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 12 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the amendment to Article 3. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr Jasmina Nikolic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr Jasmina Nikolic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by 12 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by 12 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 5 MPs of the LSV Group – Green Party submitted to the 6th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the LSV Group – the Green Party submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Gorica Gajic, Milan Lapčević and Dejan Sulkic together submitted the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Stefan Miladanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—16 against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 34th Amendment was submitted by MP Stefan Miladanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 13 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević and Dejan Šulkic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 36th Amendment was submitted by MP Stefan Miladanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapcevic submitted together to the 39th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 46th Amendment was submitted by 12 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 46th amendment was submitted by MP Stefan Miladanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for – 20, against – no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 46th Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Gorica Gajic, Milan Lapcevic and Dejan Sulkic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Representatives Gorica Gajic, Milan Lapčević and Dejan Sulkic together submitted to the 47th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 52 of the amendment was submitted by the Devere parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 52nd Amendment was submitted by Stefan Miladanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—18, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The Parliament's group Dveri submitted to the 61st Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 68 of the amendment was submitted by the Devere parliamentary group. The proposing representative accepted this amendment during the review of the draft law in particular. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 140, against – no one with abstentions is available. I understand the amendment has been accepted. On Article 69 of the amendment was submitted by the Devere parliamentary group. The proposing representative accepted this amendment during the review of the draft law in particular. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 141 against – there is no one with abstentions. I understand the amendment has been accepted. The 78th Amendment was submitted by the Devere parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the motion for a law on the transport of dangerous goods in general. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the transport of dangerous goods. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Community Labour Act, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 134, against – six abstentions – no, not one MP voted. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Members of the 1st amendment were submitted to the same text by the Democratic Party parliamentary group and together Verica Radeta and Marina Ristic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by the Devere parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 136, against – no one. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. Members of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, together with Milorad Mircic and Aleksandra Belacic, submitted to the 2nd amendment in the same text. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The Social Democratic Party - The People's Movement of Serbia - submitted a parliamentary group to the 2nd amendment, with a correction. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 133, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The second amendment was submitted by Goran Chabradi. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 3rd amendment was submitted to the same text by the MP group Dveri, the Democratic Party MP group and together Zoran Krasic and Vesna Vukalovic Nikolic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the Democratic Party and together Natasa Jovanovic and Jovo Ostojic submitted to the 4th amendment in the same text. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The SDS Group – NPS submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the Democratic Party and Nikola Savic and Zoran Krasic together submitted the 5th amendment in the same text. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 5th Amendment was submitted by the Devere parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the Democratic Party and together Bozidar Delic and Marko Milenkovic submitted to the 6th amendment in the same text. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 6th Amendment with correction was filed by Meso Omerovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted to the same text by MPs of the Dveri Group, the Democratic Party and together Verica Radet and Aleksandra Belačić. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the Democratic Party and Sreto Peric and Dubravko Bojic together submitted to the 8th amendment in the same text. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by the Devere parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 8th Amendment with correction was filed by Jasmina Obradovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the Democratic Party and together Petar Jojic and Nemanja Sarovic submitted to the 9th amendment in the same text. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 10th Amendment in the same text were submitted by SDS - NPS, Democratic Party MP group and together Momcilo Mandic and Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 10th Amendment was submitted by the Devere parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 11th Amendment were submitted to the same text by SDS - NPS, Democratic Party MP group and together Miljan Damjanovic and LJljana Mihajlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 12th Amendment were submitted to the same text by the Democratic Party parliamentary group and, together, Vjerica Radeta and LJljana Mihajlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The Democratic Party's parliamentary group, Marija Janjusevic, together with Milorad Mircic and Tomislav LJubenovic, submitted the 13th amendment in the same text. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On the 14th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the DS parliamentary group and together by MPs Zoran Krasic and Vesna Vukalovic Nikolic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 15 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the DS parliamentary group and joint MPs Natasa Jovanovic and Jovo Ostojic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On the 16th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the DS parliamentary group and joint MPs Nikola Savic and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On the 17th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the DS parliamentary group and joint MPs Milorad Mircic and Marko Milenkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 18 of the amendment, in the same text, the DS parliamentary group and together MPs Nemanja Sarovic and Aleksandra Belacic submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On the 19th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the MP group DS and together by MPs Sreto Peric and Dubravko Bojic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On the 20th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the DS parliamentary group and joint MPs Tomislav LJubenović and Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On the 21st amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the DS parliamentary group and joint MPs Zoran Krasic and Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 22nd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the DS parliamentary group and joint MPs Miljan Damjanovic and Sreto Peric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 23rd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the DS parliamentary group and joint MPs Miroslav Stankovic Đuričić and Milorad Mircic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 24 of the amendment, in the same text, the DS parliamentary group and together MPs Miljan Damjanovic and Vjerica Radeta submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Dear People's MPs, I was informed by the National Assembly that by adopting the amendment to Article 9. The proposal for a law arises in the situation referred to in Article 165. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In order to bring the amendments adopted with each other into line with the text of the bill, I am setting a five-minute break. I ask that the committees in charge meet immediately and inform us of the alignment. Thank you. We're going back to work. [[After a break.]] Please determine one more quorum. Put the cards back in, half not registered in the O.R. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 130 MPs are present in the hall. You have been given the amendment of the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, the report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one with abstentions has voted for – 129 against – five. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Community Labour Act, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 130, against – three abstentions – there are no votes, no three votes. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Community Works. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on PPP and concessions, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 132, v – one, with abstention – two, did not vote two. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic and Nemanja Sarovic and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 2 of the amendment, the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Miljan Damjanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 3rd amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic and Nemanja Sarovic and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The Social Democratic Party, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted a parliamentary group to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 4 of the amendment, the DS Parliamentary Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 5 of the amendment, the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 5 of the amendment, the Social Democratic Party MP group, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 6th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the National Movement of Serbia and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 7 of the amendment, the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 7 of the amendment, the Social Democratic Party MP group, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 7 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Krasic and Vjerica Radet together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 8th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic and Natasa Jovanovic and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 9th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Milorad Mircic and Vjerica Radet, the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Movement of Serbia and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 10th Amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 11th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Movement of Serbia and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 12 of the amendment, the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Together, MPs Gorica Gajic, Milan Lapčević and Dejan Sulkic submitted to the 12th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 13 of the amendment, the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The parliamentary group Democratic Party submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to Article 17 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by Zoran Krasic and Verica Radet. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 18th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to Article 19 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 19th amendment was submitted by Gorica Gajic, Milan Lapčević and Dejan Šulkic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 21st Amendment in the same text was submitted by Gorica Gajic, Milan Lapcevic and Dejan Šulkic, the SDS-NPS parliamentary group and the Democratic Party parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to Article 22 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. A member of the 23rd amendment in the same text was submitted by the SDS-NPS parliamentary group and the Democratic Party parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by the SDS-NPS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The SDS-NPS parliamentary group and with the correction of the Democratic Party parliamentary group submitted an amendment to the 25th amendment in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to Article 26 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by the SDS-NPS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The SDS-NPS parliamentary group and the Democratic Party parliamentary group submitted to the 27th amendment in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to Article 28 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to Article 29 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The SDS Group – NPS submitted to Article 29 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to Article 30 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to Article 31 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to Article 32 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to Article 33 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 34th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 35th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 36th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Private Partnership and concessions, in general. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 135, against – three, abstention – one, did not vote one. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Private Partnership and concessions. We're moving on to a decision on the violations of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Miljan Damjanovic, at a session on December 12th, at 13 hours and 35 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 96. Rules of Procedure. Please decide whether or not the said Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Dusan Petrovic, at a session on December 12th, at 15 hours and 45 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 92. Rules of Procedure. Please decide whether or not the said Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Marija Janjusevic, at a session of 13 December, at 13 hours and 38 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure. Please decide whether or not the said Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Bosko Obradovic, at a session on 14 December, at 11 o'clock and 53 minutes, pointed to an injury. 104 and 107. Rules of Procedure. Please decide whether or not the said Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. At a session on December 14th, at 18 hours and 37 minutes, Alexander Jerkov's national envoy pointed to a violation of Article 98. Rules of Procedure. Please decide whether or not the said Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Miroslav Aleksic, at a session on 14 December, at 18 hours and 40 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure. Please decide whether or not the said Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Aleksandra Belačić, at a session on 14 December, at 19 and 51 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure. Please decide whether or not the said Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Srdjan Nogo, at a session on December 14th, at 23 hours and 15 minutes, pointed to a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Please decide whether or not the said Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Srdjan Nogo, at a session on 20 December, at 20 hours and 26 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 103. Rules of Procedure. Please decide whether or not the said Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Marija Janjušević, at a session on 21 December,... Please determine the quorum. I ask MPs to insert their identification cards into the e-system MPs' units, to determine the quorum if we can continue our work. Please repeat, something is wrong, showing 80 MPs which is impossible, there are more of you. Five-minute break, I'm asking the heads of the parliamentary groups to secure the quorum. [[after breaks]] You'd be kind enough to put the cards back in. I find there are 128 MPs present in the O.R. National MP Marija Janjusevic, at a session on December 21st, at 12 hours and seven minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure. Please decide whether or not the said Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Branka Stamenkovic, at a session on 21 December, at 13 hours and 55 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 87(1). Rules of Procedure. Please decide whether or not the said Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for - three, against - two, abstentions - no, no, 130 MPs voted. I find that the Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on December 21st, at 15 hours and 44 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure. Please decide whether or not the said Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the sixth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. I remind you, the next session begins today at 15.00 hours.
