ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48263	Thank you, Your Honor. I would have two questions for the President of the REM Council, the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. According to the law, REM is authorised to control the work of broadcasters and Article 47 speaks about the ban on political advertising outside the campaign, and during the election campaign, it says – it must ensure that all candidates are represented without discrimination. We have a paradoxical situation these days that early parliamentary elections have been announced in the Republic of Serbia, but are not formally called yet. A formal pre-election campaign does not exist within the meaning of the law and interpreting the law on advertising of political parties is prohibited until the time for the vote to be called. On the contrary, the reality is that the largest political organisation in Serbia is advertised every day for several hours on broadcasts, with its officials appearing in various places in the role of state officials, and then, continuing their activities in front of supporters of their parties, holding pre-election gatherings that are broadcast directly on individual TV stations programmes, contrary to the law. My question to REM President is -- will REM do anything in its jurisdiction to prevent this violation of the law and to allow a fair campaign until the elections that will be held, I don't know, in the next two and a half months, we'll probably find out these days? The second question, also for REM - what happened to the announcement that a binding programme broadcast manual would be adopted? We witnessed last year that on numerous TV stations in the broadcast, reality programs were the scariest and most vulgar things that were available to the youngest viewers, because the programme broadcasts to the minors for 24 hours. On 20 November last year, REM adopted a recommendation on the realisation of the programme, which is recommended, that such programmes can only be broadcast after 23 hours. Since no one complied with the recommendation, REM announced the adoption of a binding guidebook to pass some kind of public debate of 15 days. It's been four or five times 15 days, and that binding instruction hasn't been adopted. A new reality programme is now being announced that, apart from the one where the prime minister is participating in an election campaign that has not officially begun, some other programmes that will be broadcast again for 24 hours will begin. We're going to watch criminals, breakthroughs, people without school, and morals do the most vulgar things on TV all day, at a time when minors and everyone else is watching television. As an example, we have a country in our neighborhood, Bosnia and Herzegovina, where their body, accompanied by the work of the emitters, has adopted a commitment that reality programs can only be broadcast after midnight, until six o'clock in the morning. I ask the question - does the Republic of Serbia have the strength, REM or the Ministry, perhaps, if the minister remembers that he might come with a bill to ban this broadcast? We have an announcement that in the coming days we will adopt a law that fights the consequences of such programs. It's Alex's law, the law of peer violence. The problem is that such reality promotes violence as such, and there is no ban on them broadcasting. I hope we get an answer, and first of all we get a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48264	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48265	Thank you, Madam President. I have a question for the Prime Minister, Alexander Vukic. Has he ever provided any state authorities with evidence of alleged plots that exist against him, since in the previous four years, he has on several occasions declared that there is an international conspiracy against him involving individual foreign diplomats, etc.? I wonder if he has provided evidence to the state authorities, and since I am convinced that he is, the question for Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic is as far as the investigation is concerned? The second question is for Nebojsa Stefanovic, since I am also convinced that Aleksandar Vukic reported the next crime he spoke about in the media -- has it been determined who went from SNS to public enterprises and asked for money for SNS, referring to Alexander Vukic? In fact, Aleksandar Vukic said in an interview that he has knowledge that some are doing it, so I am interested in how many people have been arrested within the framework of the action because he, as of course, would not allow it to remain only at the level of an interview. I'm interested - what about the promise that Belgrade's teachers will increase their salaries by 20%? What about helping the poorest pensioners paid every three months, who the SNS claimed would increase from 4,000 to 8,000 dinars? What about the announcement that the Public Procurement Act will save 74 billion dinars a year? What is the restructuring and revision of the work of public enterprises? Where's our 12 ministry government? How did investment in agriculture increase, when yesterday the government reduced subsidies to farmers from 12,000 dinars to 4,000 dinars? What happened to the promise that the state secretary's functions would be lifted? What about the promise that by the end of June 2013, a large aircraft component factory in Panchev will be opened in co-operation with the company Mubadala? Where is ten billion euros in investment from the United Arab Emirates? Where's ten thousand billion euros in investment from China? What happened to the four billion-euro chip factory and the chip factory development centre where the job was supposed to find 50 science doctors? What about the three billion-euro budget's unscathed assistance? Where did the 20 percent worth of electricity go, instead of where we got the power collection on multiple occasions? What about 400m euros for a boing and erbas factory, as well as for the production of supersonic training planes? What about infrastructure and construction investments, the same from the United Arab Emirates? What about their investment in the Kargo center in the Boats? What about investment in housing, tourism, highways and agro-business, in a polo club in Preljin? What happened to the privatisation of the Red Star and Partizan and how many children were cured from that fund, since the prime minister, here is already two and a half years old, announced that these football clubs will be privatized and that children will be treated from funds that will be created from these funds? What about rebuilding the General Staff building, investing in Teleko, building the Data Centre, building the base stations, investing in Luka Panchevo, where 10,000 apartments are for 280 euros per square? What happened to the announced changes in "Srbigas"? What about investments in river shipping, building a spa, building solar power plants, building gas plants, investing Al Dahra in agriculture, 400m euros for irrigation, 200m euros for favourable loans to farmers, building a irrigation system, opening a perspective for young people, supporting young people to start their own business? These are all promises made only in the previous year by the SNS; but by the moss of its president and Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic. He obviously believes that without any responsibility he can declare anything, apparently underestimates the citizens by thinking that they don't remember, that they believe everything he says, that they have no critical view of the world around them, convinces them to live better, and the only thing they've got so far is the collapse still.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48266	Thank you. Here you go, Dr. Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48267	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I think there is no greater reality in Serbia than the DS negotiations, in different aggregate states, whether in one, two or ten columns of elections. I have a question, on behalf of the SNS parliamentary group, for the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office and for the Ministry of the Interior – will they take, and when, or may appropriate measures and actions have already been taken, as prescribed by the Criminal Procedure Act, which refers to the investigation of crime at the very top of the Bojan Pajtic regime in Vojvodina, in particular at the Regional Secretariat for Science and Technological Development and in the Vojvodine Development Fund, in which Bojan Pajtic is chairman of the Supervisory Board? I'll start in a row. So my question is, in 2011, the following companies in Vojvodina received funds from the Vojvodina Development Fund, and they have not returned any single dinars to this day. Under a September 8, 2011, contract, a company was given 20,985,000 dinars, or, which may be simpler for citizens to understand, 200,545 euros, was returned - zero dinars. The winery Zvonko Bogdan was given 198.522 euros, returned - zero dinars. SOS d.o.o. Armenians, the 16 December 2011 contract, were given 103,901 euros, returned - zero dinars. The company from Choka, from 19 December 2011, 214,673 euros, was returned to zero dinars by 2016. Next, the 7 October 2011 contract was given 333,808 euros, returned - zero dinars. One Somboro firm, the 7 October 2011 contract, 236,000 euros, has been returned to zero dinars. The agreement of 16 November 2011, and that, beware, is being financed from the Vojvodina Development Fund, was given 388,837 euros, returned to the day of today – zero dinars. One firm from Bashaida, contract from 3 November 2011, 44,460 euros, to the day of today's return - zero dinars. One Temerin firm, a 16 December 2011 contract, was given 425,500 euros, to the day of today's return - zero dinar. Meanwhile, in 2012, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia made a decision declaring, among other things, that it was an unconstitutional member of 64. The Law on determining the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, which, among other things, in point 1(2), states that the AP Vojvodina establishes funds or participates in the establishment of funds for co-financing of high-tech plants, resolving the housing issues of young teaching and scientific workers and in encouraging international co-operation. So this provision has been declared unconstitutional. Based on this unconstitutional provision, Vinary Zvonko Bogdan of the Regional Secretariat for Science and Technological Development in 2011 was given 20 million dinars. Afterwards, the contract with the same winery was concluded, and according to that contract, Vinary Zvonko Bogdan was obliged to return, but not in money, but in bottles of wine, 6,000 bottles of the highest quality white wine to the competent province institutions. Six thousand bottles of wine were delivered, apparently, imagine who, the Red Cross of the city of Novi Sad. I haven't heard in the world that the Red Cross anywhere in its lagers or warehouses is quality white wine. That's just not what a red cross does. When we were looking for information where the 6,000 bottles of the highest quality white wine, in the Red Cross of the town of Novi Sad, we were told – we delivered this wine to the Regional Directorate for Stock Reserves, and it was further distributed to certain municipalities and cities in Vojvodina. So, pure crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48268	Time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48269	I'm done. I wanted to ask - what about that Somboro firm that received 24 million dinars for the production of coffins, with the obligation to deliver coffins to the executive council of Vojvodina, or to the government whose head is Bojan Pajtic?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48270	Thank you, Madam President. Yesterday in Presevo, carriers spontaneously protested the government's decision that only the transport company "Lasta" would be authorised to transport migrants. Following the initial chaos, order was established, with buses of various carriers waiting in the column to take over migrants' passengers. That's why I'm asking the government, which is why it was necessary to create this monopoly for just one transitional company? On Tuesday, MP Kamberi asked that the disappearance of Ramadani from Bujanovac and Nebija Nujunez from Presevo, the owner of a gas station, which was kidnapped 16 years ago, was then violently taken from the family house. During the same day, family members handed 75,000 marks to the kidnappers around Vranj. After the kidnapping, a lawsuit was conducted against a group of police officers who tried to extort additional money, but Nuhiu was not found and the family had no information about him from the competent state authorities. The second owner of the gas station, Isuf Azizi, who was a committee of the Party for Democratic Action in the Presevo municipality, was killed in the courtyard of his house in May 2009. Although I've been asking questions about this serious crime before, I've never received an answer, and the Azizi family itself has no information from the authorities. During 2013, police officer Goran Djordjevic was killed in Bujanovac, and auto mechanic Reshad Bajrami died in prison even though he was quite healthy before detention. It was created on this occasion by a fierce media affair and a false performance that allegedly the police cannot enter the Great Trnovac. Yet these tragic events have not so far been enlightened. In fact, the killings of 11 civilians in Presevo municipality during the 1999 wartime are not yet enlightened, and the same situation is with the killing of 13 civilians in the Bujanovac municipality. In the area of special responsibility of the army that was then fivekm from the border with Macedonia in 2001, Agima Gusi of Viratovac was killed and in 2005, Dashima, a second-class student of Presevo High School. In this situation, I ask the MUP and the prosecution to deliver information on the so far taken measures for the lighting and processing of all murders, kidnapping and disappearance of civilians in the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedje since 1999. Far more effective work in this area is necessary in order to gain the necessary trust in state police judicial authorities, but also to increase the security of citizens in this area. Of course, the parallel with this component is also necessary to significantly improve, the currently inadequate ethnic structure of these state bodies, as well as the organisational scheme of police work, the prosecution and the judiciary. It is inadmissible that we currently have for Presevo and Bujanovac, with already known data from about 75,000 residents, only a unit of the prosecutor's office in Bujanovac. Only for the municipality of Han of 20,000 citizens there is a basic prosecution, as in Presevo there is no basic court, although in far smaller municipalities we have courts and new reforms, not to mention the inclusion of Albanian personnel in courts, in the prosecution, but also professional and highly qualified in police work, which is a great shortage after that, in my opinion, a very important step, in 2001 when multiethnic police were created did not continue at the same pace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48271	Thank you. The word is "Zonimir Stević".
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48272	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today I would like to request a notice, i.e. to ask the Minister of Economy, Director of the Office for Kosovo and Metohija and the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia through the Ministry of Economy. Of course, one of the biggest problems in the territory of the state has been the problem of unemployment in the last two decades, especially young generations. With a full understanding of the economic situation in which we as a state are particularly in the central part of Serbia, the problem of unemployment is particularly pronounced and has its specificity, complexity, importance, importance, political, economic and state weight in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. In fact, it has been 16 years, and nobody has seriously, responsibly and systematically dealt with this problem, finding the possibility of developing a long-term project strategy for the employment of 16 generations of young people who have graduated from high school and college. There were various programs and promises where studies were made. I have to say that the results were not particularly done in the election campaigns. I would like to remind myself that there have been plenty of choices in Kosovo and Metohija at local, regional and republican level. What was done in the previous period by the ministry, the Office for Kosovo and Metohija, by the PKK and the Chamber of Commerce of Kosovo and Metohija is an attempt to alleviate the problems of unemployment in Kosovo and Metohija, but certainly not solves this big problem, the results remain. I point out this because of the process for Kosovo and Metohija, which is not yesterday's or today's, but is tomorrow's and no moment's wish to reduce the weight and complexity of general life in Kosovo and Metohija, because life in the area of Kosovo and Metohija remains difficult, complex and burdensome. Should I remind the public of security, freedom of movement, double registration, the right to property, the fate of missing and kidnapped, the right to health care, the right to adequate education and other human and civil rights as well as the right to protect and preserve cultural heritage and cultural goods of Kosovo and Metohija. The latest attack on the Decana monastery as well as an event with a temple in Pristina clearly points to the degree of danger of the cosmetic cultural treasure. Limiting factors is an additionally difficult circumstance that gives the Serbian people and other non-Albanian lives no possibility of hiring in so-called interim institutions in Kosovo and Metohija. Although Serbs have accepted participation in Kosovo's elections as well as participation in temporary authorities, I am not talking about hiring in large systems such as the Elektroprivreda of Kosovo and Metohija, the cement factory General Jankovic and others. To remind the public that workers in large systems, institutions in Kosovo and Metohija after 1999 were expelled and expelled, and not by their own fault, willfully lost their basic right, which is the right to work. With this in mind, certainly EU representatives have the responsibility and role to take part together with our government in solving this burning problem and finally start joint projects and to create new jobs for both young Serbs and young Albanians and other non-Albanian animals. According to the country's employment service, Kosovo and Metohija have more than 25,000 unemployed people in the province's territory. In the northern part of the labour market records there are over 8,000, in the area of the central part of Cosmeta 6,500, the maritime area of about 6,000 and a particularly pronounced problem in the territory of the municipality of Strpce where there are over 5,000 unemployed. A good message from the government to make up for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija continues which is a guarantee and wind in the back for the survival of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, but without the creation of new jobs there is no perspective for young people. I hope that the government will enter into the realisation of the project to employ 16 generations of young people in the coming period. For this reason, I ask the Minister of Economy, Director of the Office for Kosovo and Metohija and the PKK through the Ministry of Economy, what is foreseen in the proposal for a measure for this year to address the problem of unemployment in Kosovo and Metohija? Will the measures lead to a foreign investor in co-operation with international representatives to open production capacities in Serb enclaves in Kosovo and Metohija? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48273	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Dr Dijana Vukomanovic, Mr Dejan Radenkovic, Djordje Cabarkapa, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. We continue to work and move on to a search in details of the 4th item of the agenda – Proposal for sport. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly inform you that I have called for today's session to be attended by Vanja Udovic, Minister of Sports, Predrag Peruničić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Youth and Sports, Uroš Zekovic, Assistant Minister of Youth and Sports and Zorica Nikodijevic, Secretary of the Youth and Sports Ministry. You have received amendments, submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Science, Technological Development and the Information Society and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Ivan Karic and Mr. Blagoja Bradic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go, Mr. Djurishich.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48274	Well, I would like to thank the Minister for accepting this amendment, as well, I think four - five amendments that we have proposed to this law, but we are sorry that he was not braver and we think that it is a pity that he is no longer, not only our amendments but other amendments, accepted, amendments that should have helped solve the problems that exist today in sports. In sports, unfortunately, we talked about it in the principle debate, today there's a lot of gray zone in funding, in management, in transfers. We think this kind of legal solution is missing an opportunity to do more. It's one step ahead, kid, but it's not enough for us. Minister, I also say once again, there is no guarantee, as far as we are concerned, that after the adoption of this law, school sports will develop, that more people, young people and children will be involved through school sports, in sports activities. We don't see that even older people through recreational sports will be more involved and what we may be most concerned about, we see that the government is insisting on and investing in certain sports infrastructures that we don't need and, of course, what we're saying, there is no solution to privatisation. In any case, just like this, if only these amendments that the government has accepted are accepted, it doesn't give us hope that things in sport will change for the better quickly enough and as much as necessary, so we won't ultimately support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48275	Thank you. The word is Dr Ljubisa Stojmirović. Here you go, Mr. Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48276	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I think this is a small step, but very significant, significant in regulating this topic. Not only can the Ministry and not only can the government make every effort to introduce this sport into schools and to educate the entire population to play sports from a small age. That's the problem we're all gonna have to solve. It's a problem that we're going to have to get out of the family, raise our children while they're young enough to be involved in sports, and it's very important to practice sports. It'll be the same at all levels. It is good that sport is associated with education, i.e. education, and I hope that in the future there will be much more sport in our primary and secondary schools, and also in higher and higher education. As far as we're not ready to go, and this is the beginning of where we're going and we're showing our readiness, we can't accomplish anything. That's why I think this is a good bill of law and that this law will make it possible for radical changes to be made in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48277	I thank Mr Stojmirovic. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Jovanovic and Borislav Stefanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48278	Dear ladies and gentlemen, on the proposal for a Law on Sports, we People's MPs of the New Party have submitted a total of seven amendments, of which the first amendment is exactly this and that accepted amendment, of course to my great pleasure, amendment to Article 5 of this bill. Since the seven amendments submitted, gentlemen, I ask you, Mr. Becic, that the electronic device for mathematical operations measures all seven minutes, to give one introduction to our debate on our amendments, to give an overview of what was going on here about the content of our seven amendments. Therefore, out of the seven amendments submitted, four amendments have been accepted by our People's MPs of the New Party. Of course, it's always one opportunity, I think, to remind ourselves here and what a total score it is for our submitted amendments, the amendments that have been accepted in these years and nine months, as we work together in the National Assembly in this assembly. Dear gentlemen, Minister Udovic, Mr. Perunicic, ma'am, Mr. Zekovic, just to let you know, in total, we have submitted 1957 amendments in this year and nine months. According to the number of amendments submitted, we are champions of Serbian parliamentaryism, but not only by the number of submitted, respected gentlemen, but also by ministers Udovic, by the number of amendments accepted. We received a total of 191 amendments. Of course, these four that you have accepted here, which when transferred to percentages, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, honored guests and honored guests, amounts to 9.7% of accepted amendments. Mr. Udovic, you've done a little organizational science at the Faculty of Organizational Sciences, it's across the street from my Faculty of Political Sciences. Some at the Faculty of Political Sciences, like me, make certain analogies when they get to these percentages. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Can we talk about the amendment? Can I have a sentence on the amendment? ) Of course, Mr Babić, Martinović, Atlagic, they are familiar with this analogy which implies that, in my opinion, according to my congregation research, and this is our latest assembly survey, 9.7% of the amendments accepted by our MPs of the New Party actually account for 9.7% of the support of the citizens of the New Party. That means, gentlemen of honor, Mr. Widow, that since we are preparing for an extraordinary parliamentary election, we are all going to run that race here, that means that the starting position of the New Party is, in part, thanks to your actions at this point, 9.7%. Dear gentlemen, that's the result, I think, of a diligently dedicated work by our MPs of the New Party and the opposition in this year and nine months in this assembly. I see Mr. Babic has a problem with this, every percent more for the New Party is a percentage less for the SNS. There's no dilemma...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48279	Mr. Pavicevic, please. The MPs are rightfully resented because you, in this way, are reducing your university, because if you say that in a college in such an unserious way you are dealing with research and analysis, then you are putting the Faculty of Political Sciences in the order of non-serious universities, which is not the case. I would ask you to respect the university where you were a professor and lectured, because I cannot believe that the Faculty of Political Sciences thus represents the electoral will of citizens and that it parallels the percentages of accepted amendments and the percentages won in the election.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48280	Supports in the electoral body. Mr. Becic, here I am now moving on to the amendment...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48281	Please respect your university.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48282	Of course, with just one previous sentence. Here's Minister Selakovic told me at a debate, says – Mr Pavicevic, you are a learned man, teaching at an eminent higher education facility. Are you in conflict with Mr. Selakovic, Mr. Becic?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48283	That's exactly what I wanted to say, Mr. Pavicevic, about that college, about the higher education institution, about a very respected college, and that we can't believe as MPs that the university is in such a way dealing with analyses that are completely ridiculous.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48284	In Article 5, which we have submitted to the amendment, gentlemen, Mr. Becic, we will check these results in the elections, but in Article 5, one letter is commended. I, of course, had to react to the correction of this irregularity and that letter is very important, that is the letter "T", because it could have stood in one place "slow" instead of "sport", and I believe no one here would want to stand in the bill. Of course, this letter T, which is missing, when we tie it to the word sport, always associates to a kind of competition, in this case of sports. I've heard that some of the authorities here are getting ready for a competition. The Belgrade Marathon is scheduled for 16 April, but I heard the mayor of Belgrade chose the shortest distance possible, five kilometers wants to run. I'll run 21 kilometers, gentlemen, half-marathon. I challenge everyone here to organize a single competition on April 16th and to see who is in what condition ahead of the election, and I believe I will be the fastest runner, gentlemen, and in that race, in that marathon, and I believe, Mr. Becic, that these 9.7% a day later will come true.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48285	Mr Pavicevic, I see that you are investigating and that you are looking for a variety of ways to get some percentages, but you realize that the elections give citizens an electoral will and only these percentages, only that electoral will introduces MPs to parliament. This run, research, submit amendments, analyses, is not enough, but only the electoral will of the citizens introduces the party to parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48286	Since you've spent me for sure a minute and a half, two out of these seven, but come on, that's your practice, that's what we're used to. Minister Udovic, I think you could accept all seven amendments and follow the example of Ivica Dacic, who yesterday accepted all the amendments of the New Party without fear, without any tightening and example of Mr Selakovic, who has six, seven large instructions about me and my party said. I thought it might be appropriate, but I'm happy with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48287	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. Please admit you were joking. I can't believe students are forced to do such unserious analysis at that serious college. Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48288	What I would remind you, Mr. Chairman, of you, also reminds the Minister of Udovic who is ready for a serious debate here, and not for a laadry, I also reminded the amendment that the Belgrade Marathon, semi-marathon or some distance on the Belgrade Marathon were running and former President of the Republic of Tadic and former Minister Djelic, so they have lost in the elections, because people do not measure the muscles and biceps of Pajtic, which shows on the Novi Sad Strand, already measures the effect, measures the quality, measures how much better they live and how much better our country is better and more decorated. We were present here when some MPs asked you, Mr. Becic, instead of facing arguments to knock down your hands. However, I don't think that this is what the citizens of the Republic of Serbia expect from us and I call on the amendment's promoter to continue doing his job, to continue proposing amendments, but to struggle with arguments for their adoption, not to humiliate this home with such mathematics that does not exist anywhere. This kind of math, I think, neither Houdini can admit it nor do it. However, when I was following the media yesterday and watching the amendment promoter today, I realized that in that part and in these aggregate states DS, an epidemic of numbering prevailed, so yesterday, a Democratic Party of Bojan Pajtic celebrated 26 years after the party was restored in front of a banner that wrote "25 years and congratulated 25 years". Let's just count them down for a year, I can understand that, but in other things when you need to take money from children with special needs, like they did in Hetherland, when you need to take money from the Capital Investment Fund, when you need to take money from the bank, from the Development Fund, from the Regional Secretariat, and there's a lot of precision. There's no mistake, that's where they go to decimals. There are Mr. Bojan Pajtic, his click and his absolute regime, they don't need a digitron or what the amendment promoter said, something that counts. I don't know what's counting. I don't know what's counting. I don't know what's counting. In this way, the amendment promoter did not count for one. That's 25, 26 years, it's already been counted a hundred times. According to all the public opinion studies, in all the things that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia show and want, not to have 9%, but to 9 prominences, so that these errors have become an epidemic in all the aggregate states of the DS and to invoke and perceive some percentages that are absolutely not real or possible. The summoning of such percentages and such support on one policy, on one platform and that platform is complex in one sentence, and that one sentence is – we hate Alexander Vukic, will not bring any good, and at least to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia do not and do not support, because such a policy, we hate Alexander Vukic and the SNS, the policy of stopping Serbia on the path to reform does not correspond to anyone in Serbia, except those who lack the time when they could take from the Republika Srpska budget uncontrollably, except for those, as Bojan Pajtic is now doing with funds and citizens' money living in Vojvodina. Such a policy does not correspond to anyone other than those who have enriched themselves with subsidized Fruskogorian vineyards, which cost citizens of the Republic of Serbia 500 and some thousands of euros and 500 and some thousand euros as much as Serbian citizens are poorer, so Zoran Zivkovic is richer as the amendment promoter. To return time when they could build magnificent buildings on the pastures of Vracar, when they could be masters of both money and life and everything in Serbia, such a policy has support, but in promis, not in percentages.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48289	Please, Mr. Granny, return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48290	I'm done, Mr. Becic. Just one small thing to do in all of this – all of this proves what the amendment promoter is saying. To prove it, he needs to go to the polls alone, on his own. I saw in these last elections, which were held in the town of Somboru for the local communities of Backi Monoštor and Kljajic, that they didn't have people who supported them, that they would put on the list. Even the ones they put on the list, the best one had several hundred votes less than the SNS candidate with the least votes. They're people whose opinion we're all fighting for. What did the people in Somboro say? They said not to such a policy, they said that the policy of impact, that the policy of normal, decent, orderly Serbia, that the policy of building corridors is different from the construction of personal vineyards, so of these vineyards is transferred to houses and apartments in Vračar and to overpriced old timers and to overpriced jeeps. You don't need over-knowledge, you don't need cheek, you don't need cheek because of children with special needs in Hetherland... What does it take to steal? No face, no honor, no morals, but building corridors, building a state, hiring people, that kind of thing takes knowledge and will, and that knowledge and will the government of Alexander Vukic and SNS has.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48291	Thank you. Mr. Pavicevic, if Mr. Zivkovic were there, he would have the right to reply because his name and last name were mentioned, vineyards, Vračar, cars, but you have no right. The word has been given by MP Jovan Markovic, as an authorised representative of the DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48292	The Honorable Chairman, the honourable ministers, the honourable fellow Members of Parliament, I really don't think it's appropriate to mark the amendment debate at the beginning of today's debate in this way. I don't think it's appropriate that with the charges we've been hearing for four years in public and in this House about criminals, thieves, about arrests, we start a debate like this. If I have any impressions of this assembly in the past two years, that's the story of Hetherland, of the charges, etc. If there is anything I can agree with Mr Babic from the previous presentation, it is – prove once again, confirm what you are talking about, you have all the institutions of this country at your disposal and prove once what you are talking about. It's not that it's worse that you talk about this Hetherland and thousands of people, not just from the DS, but people who have done some of their jobs honestly in previous years, put it in the context of what's really miserable. And it's not known if what you're saying is sadder, or what did these people possibly do? You've been trying for four years to throw both the Democratic Party and Bojan Pajtic in the mud and you think that's how you'll last. You think that's the answer to your problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48293	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48294	It's not.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48295	I thank you, Mr. Markovic. It's been two minutes. Maybe you should have spent it on something else, not to defend what was taken from the disabled children. The word has a folk MP, Ninoslav Giric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48296	The esteemed chairman, respected ministers with associates, co-workers and colleagues, said in a principle debate that he would consider all amendments well, all of what is improving this law on sports, that these amendments would be accepted. Article 5(2) is one of these amendments and I will read it to the public. In fact, the very text of the law states: “Article 5(2) states: ‘in another disputed organisation’, they are replaced by the words ‘in another sport organisation’. “ The amendment has been accepted, as have all those who promote this sport law. The term ‘marathon’ is mentioned. You know, the marathon is slow sports discipline. I would suggest, given that the Government of Aleksandr Vukic, the Minister of Udovic and other ministers in the government, works at a completely different speed, works at the fifth speed, I would suggest to the amendment's promoters to change discipline in order to do a little better in the upcoming elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48297	Thank you. I ask the MPs to return to the topic. I understand that in the first few amendments they want to talk about everything, and what is not the subject of this amendment, but I would ask you to return to the amendments. Here's a word from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48298	Of course it is also necessary to regulate the area of sport in a new and more modern way and on that side we can understand the effort the Ministry has made to do so. But we can't be satisfied with the overall results. These are cosmetic changes that could be more content, deeper, to regulate in a better way an area that is important in the life of a country. I'm sure since at least two of them are sitting here, as far as I can see, former athletes, that they understand this problem and that need very well, but I'm also convinced that you two are clear that more could have been done. I don't mean the question of privatising sports clubs, it's supposed to be another law, but it's supposed to be brought in urgently, or it's supposed to be brought in. And not only because the Prime Minister swore several times that he would solve it, that he had a solution, that it was a done deal, but because it was a need. What do we have in Serbian sports today? With honorable exceptions, which can hardly be measured by more than 20%, Serbian sport is like other parts of Serbian society, under the great influence of ignorance, corruption, money laundering, lack of money, volunteerism, amateurism. I think that's where we'll agree. Even in water polo, which is our most professional collective sport, you have a lot of places where water polo used to play with a lot of power, and today it's gone, the type of Vienna, Nis, etc. Not to mention the handball, where 10 years ago, 15, 20 years ago, the halls were full and full, the citizens wanted to watch big and great games, and today it's a sport that sees a small number of people. Why? Of course, it's not the athletes' fault. It's those who handle sports organizations who are to blame. To be clear -- and I was president of one, I was president of a regional alliance, and I was a member of the board of directors of a national alliance, so I speak both as an insider, and as someone who was in those forums. There are a lot of people who, through sports management, see the possibility of their social affirmation that they couldn't deserve in any way, but they shouldn't be allowed to dirty the sport with their own attempt. And I'm sure you have more examples than I can give them. In this law a few things have been resolved better, and that is the question of young athletes, their obligations, relationships, and I fully agree. But in general, I don't think that mechanisms are created that would prevent local environments, but not only local environments, the money of Serbian citizens, the money from the budget of those local communities, from being spent in a way that depends on good will, assessment or preference of some current local sheriff, because he doesn't deserve me to choose a better expression. I'm sure fans expect a lot from this law, but still, let them stay where they belong. I don't think there are any good mechanisms to prevent fans' influence on sports clubs or alliances. You should respect fans, but their job isn't to run clubs. We have here for years, decades, it has nothing to do with this regime alone, it has to do with that before, that fans' leaders sometimes have a greater impact on the choice of players, on club ambitions than experts, trainers and staff. It's also inadmissible. That's why we need to make as soon as possible a clear division of what it is that can be privatized and these are these big clubs where 95% of the money goes and these clubs need to be put under control, and the best way to do it is by a private owner. Of course the state, but to create other conditions that also those sports that are not highly profitable have space in this country's life. Anyone who can't figure it out can always come to someone to dig a vineyard, don't have to do sports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48299	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48300	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as someone who has been engaged in agriculture before, as someone who has met agricultural activities at the age of ten, as someone who has had a physical education at the age of seven, as someone who has not been released from physical education, as someone who has been trained in the military, as someone who has not been released from the army, as someone who has not been released from military physical education, would take something to say on the amendment, if I am entitled to it and if my fellow farmer who has been released, let, of course, the other amendment promoter. I've been repeatedly challenged to have the right to comment on the amendments, to have the right to comment on the laws and that by Professor FPN, come on, I'm not surprised at this farmer. A doctor at the FPN has repeatedly slowed me down in this Assembly, which he called the sanctuary of democracy, and who is now quite, quite vehemently smiling, but it speaks of him, not of me, disputed my opportunity to comment on the amendments, and thus the right to equality. Democracy is based on the equality of all voters and all voters and on this amendment, I hope that I have the same opportunity to be equal as the amendment's proposings. I'm experiencing this letter T, it's joining me in a sport called tennis. I'm not going to talk about marathons, because if I talk, then I'm going to talk about the French marathon, it could be some kind of staff, you know, you run 100 meters, so you hand over a bottle of wine to the next one, so he runs one 54 acres, from member to member, from chocolate to chocolate, and you run those 21 kilometers to 50 and a few acres, because if you take the rows of four meters, etc., if you run all that, you don't need a Belgrade marathon. You can ask your colleague to run that French marathon together, so I'll talk about a sport called tennis. I'm not going to talk about whistles, the team, the president of the state only whistles those who whistled, and they're just about to win the election.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48301	Please, Mr. Risticevic, return to your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48302	No, I won't talk about a sport called whistles, whistles in the distance, strong whistles, spit in the distance, spit in your own flag, anthem, whistle, etc., I'll talk about a sport called tennis, because this T is precious, associated with tennis. Our tennis players, the sports players are Novak Djokovic, who individually achieved what he had achieved, the achievement of the world's attention, there are Jelena Jankovic, Ana Ivanovic, there are Troicki, there is Tipsarevic, who is injured, who needs special attention, given that he is very injured, should be approached with much attention and his injury, with a sense of it. They're our best sports tennis players. There are other tennis players - political tennis players. It's a party of the former regimes that I can best describe as the company Rodney, Del Boy and the companies. What they've been pounding for the people from 2000 to 2012, I think they're political tennis players a couple of excellencies. So here 525 thousand euros, and then stupid, that was racketeering. They didn't have a ball, but the racket was pounding more often than these sports tennis players. What's going on now? Now they've gathered around themselves, with a parole of what's wrong with their cheeks, wanting a ball of responsibility to be transferred to us, for their robberies, for their insults, for slaughtering the people, for leaving 400,000 workers, etc., thinking that by campaigning on the unfree media, they'll think they'll be able to rephrase, to challenge the replica of October 5th. Well, in October 5th or 6th, when you sold the people's energy for an act full of stamps on October 6th, October 5th cannot be replicated from fairytale castles. You can't send the people to the fable, and you can live like a fairy tale and look for a new October 5th. That's not gonna work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48303	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Sutanovac, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48304	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 107 has been injured. Dear ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, I think today is a very important law and that it is completely inappropriate, Mr. Chairman, to allow any MP to discriminate on other MPs. Whether someone has served an army or not for this law is irrelevant, but for those of us who work here today, it's very important to prevent that kind of violence against people who didn't serve the army. I served the army, thank God, I didn't have a car accident like some did, so they didn't serve the army, but it doesn't qualify me or disqualify me here in any way. Mr. Udovic, did you serve the army? You didn't serve the army. Is there any problem?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48305	Please, Mr. Sutanovac, you know very well by the Rules of Procedure how you point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You are addressing the chairman and I am asking you to explain why you think the chairman has abused the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48306	I'll tell you. Today we hosted in the Serbian Parliament a delegation to the Ministry of Sports, including people who did not serve the army. For us in the DS, it's an irrelevant matter, but for the representatives of the regime, it's a very important thing, so please, since you can't stand in the protection of the representatives of the opposition, at least stand in the protection of a minister who didn't serve the military, because that thing is completely irrelevant from the aspect of the law we're talking about. The army was not served by other ministers in this country, the army was served until the army was professionalized. Vulin did not serve the army, Djukanovic did not serve the army.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48307	Mr. Sutanovac, please don't do what you do to others. What am I doing? ( b) Do not insult people who are not present in such a way. Please, I warned Mr. Risticevic about the amendment. Also, as presidents, I cannot interpret and direct the MPs in a way that will support or not support any amendment. These are the words spoken by Mr Risticevic, he was part of his proposal why some amendment should not be accepted had a way to explain it. I can't appreciate every word anyone says in this Great Hall of the National Assembly right now. I can prevent insults and insults of the MPs, but I cannot in any way, I also did not interrupt Mr. Risticevic because, unfortunately, I allowed both Mr. Zivkovic and some before Mr. Zivkovic to step away from the topic, saying something that was not the subject of the amendment. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: What did I do? ) Mr. Zivkovic, if you say that you only explained your amendment in five minutes, then I will apologize, but I think you spoke about the law, that you talked about everything and everything, and I simply had to let Mr. Risticevic do that. I thank you, Mr. Sutanovac. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? (Dear Sutanovac, from the scene: I am looking for a new breach of the Rules of Procedure, by another member. You can't, Mr. Sutanovac, take a look at the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. Mr. Rističević, you have no right to replicate the violation of the Rules of Procedure, you know very well. The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz. [[Marian Risticevic, from the scene: I did not ask for a replica, I have the right to speak several times by amendment.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48308	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, look who came before the Government of the Republic of Serbia to defend the proposal for a law on sports, which, thank God, in the day for the vote today, we will adopt. Legends, look – Perunicic, Widow, legends, what else are we going to say, but legends. Of course, one of the greatest mortal sins is vanity, it's a mentioned devil's sin, but you see, in those people who are of such size, there's no vanity, so the adoptions and amendments like this amendment of the promoter, which was to be adopted, are not sports. It's a technicality, as we've heard, but the amendment has been passed. The analogy associated with the force of the motionor or his party does not agree that it exists. The promoter said that in the context of the amendment's interpretation. He has a right to speak, he shouldn't be nervous about it. I can only say one thing as my opinion, and that is that without the party proposing DS could not cross the censorship. So, they're really helping to a large extent, and the DS is probably going to cross the census thanks to that party,
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48309	Please, Mr. Shormaz, return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48310	Well, that was an explanation by the motionor. I know why you want to warn me. Here, I'll go back to the amendment, but it was part of the proposal's explanation when he spoke about the amendment. That's a fact. I also have to pay attention to his explanation of the amendment itself. The fact is, you remember, the chairman, that's what he was talking about. That's a fact, but here, I'll hang up. That's enough of what I said. So this amendment has been accepted and there are others that have been accepted, but thank God, the whole law is much better than it was before. No wonder these legends in the government of Mr. Wolfie worked on the law and they represent it here. This is another piece of evidence, in a series of evidence that is mentioned here, that the good work of the Government of Alexander Vukic is, and therefore, at the upcoming elections at all levels of SNS and Aleksandar Vukic will win. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48311	Thank you. According to the amendment, the word has been given by MP Marijan Risticevic. (Nataša Vučković, from town: Replica, mentioned DS. ) Yes, but there is an authorised representative of the parliamentary group in the O.R., and he also answered. Mr. Markovic, do you want a replica? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48312	The Honorable Chairman, it is indeed becoming a practice for you to always wonder why someone from the DS is looking for a right to a replica. What's worrying is that as the time of your work passes here in parliament, it seems to me to be getting worse. So, people here use every opportunity to mention in a very negative context either Mr. Pajtic or DS in any way and thus court Alexander Vukic and the Government. They're trying to take this opportunity they have before the elections in some way to get back on the list and not choose the means to lower someone here. So, your silence on that is fine, but what I have to tell my fellow Members one more time is that we have really given a lot of effort and contribution to repairing this law together with the representatives of the Ministry. Your attempts to discuss this effort in some way reduce you to these trivial debates about politics and your attempt to be on the lists is indeed inadmissible and does not contribute to amendments, nor to this law, nor to debate in the Assembly. How much citizens will support DS seems to hurt the most. Every topic we mention here is about what support the people of the DS will be. You're probably scared because you know how many injustices you've done to citizens in the past four years by cutting their salaries and pensions, how many citizens of Serbia you've brought to the brink of a beggar stick, how many Serbian citizens you've brought to worry that they don't know how they'll survive in the next period, how to pay their bills for electricity, how to make bills that come...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48313	Mr. Markovic, do you want to replicate Mr. Shormaz or do you want to give political speeches?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48314	I'm doing the same thing the other MPs are doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48315	Thank you, time. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic, according to the amendment. Here you go, Mr. Ristichevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48316	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I hope that I will not be denied the right to propose, comment on the amendments in the same way that the amendment's proposings have the right to do. People say there's a state without democracy, but there's no democracy without a state and there's no democracy without equality. Democracy wants, democracy wants us all to be equal in this sanctuary of democracy, as you call it. Also, democracy wants to be checked out sometimes by those who sit here, to expose themselves to the attention or the thoughtlessness of the voters. Just because someone's trying to disrespect me... (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: What is this now? ) I must say that the one who throws away has never been personally named and last name bearer of the list or candidate for any function and has not been exposed to the attention of the voters...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48317	Please, Mr. Risticevic, return to the amendment and not mention any other MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48318	I have the right to my introduction. So, I've been exposed to voter attention and got my best score - 72,000 votes at the republican level, so I'm asking you if there's anyone else? When someone here is able to make their percentages, and in doing so, he voted eight times for his 1.990 and some amendments, and that's what the proposer explained here, so I guess I can interpret that too. So I voted for myself 0.4 times...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48319	Mr. Risticevic, please return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48320	I'm going back to the amendment, Mr. Chairman, he's tied to sports. A big prank was committed here. In my day it was normal for you to play sports, and I'm 1958. My fellow farmer has also been around for generations. In my day, the army has been serving, and since 2004, it hasn't been. Someone had no chance to serve the army because members of the party of the former regime destroyed it. All that was good was destroyed. So they didn't even give someone a chance to serve the army, and they avoided the army themselves. So, in the explanation of the amendment, I didn't want to say that it's a sin not to serve an army when it's abolished, but it's a sin to avoid an army when it's mandatory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48321	Thank you. (Dear Sutanovac, from the city, according to the Rules of Procedure!) I'm gonna have to take a break now, because I don't think this leads to anything. The minister came to explain the law, to hear arguments about amendments that MPs have to give him instructions, and I think we should return to the debate over Serbian citizens, not in this way, by reporting to the Rules of Procedure, fully dissuade this debate. So, I'm taking a break and I'm asking the MPs and the heads of Parliament to try to, uh, here after an hour and a half, at least move on to some of the amendments. (Dear Sutanovac, from the post: I will report to the Rules of Procedure afterwards.) ) It is no problem, Mr Sutanovac, I understand your intention not to talk about this subject, to talk about the things you want and I will allow it, it is no problem at all, but I want to show the citizens of Serbia how some MPs are trying to reason with this debate. Five minutes, Mr. Sutanovac. [[Dear Sutanovac, from the place: How long is the break?]] [[after breaks]] We're going back to work. Moving to Article 5. The amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Ivan Karic and the magistrate of Dr Blažja Bradic. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go, Mr. Braddick.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48323	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, honored guests, colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens, Nishlia, here is Article 5, finally back to the law. This has been a kind of intra-party campaign so far, we're probably positioning ourselves on the lists. The amendment says next. Article 5 speaks of keeping records and other databases and when issuing or submitting documents by participants in the system of sports, in accordance with this law, etc. It further states the following position that the competent national sports association, in accordance with the law, collects, maintains, performs other actions, processes personal data of athletes, sports expert and sports expert, depending on the type of records that the national sport union is conducting in accordance with this law, so as to further say that these data should be the number and date of authorisation for the performance of the sports expert and the period of validity of the sport expert, whether the transfer, concession or other kind is realised. We have here proposed an amendment that instead of saying "realised transfer, concession or other vision" it should be: "transition, concession or other vision contract" in order to supplement the sentence in the third position. He says the competent national sports union may, in accordance with the law, and we say, "with prior notification of the data subject", make available the data contained in Article 2, paragraph 2, to the relevant international sports union, if necessary for etc. We asked for attitude eight to be completed. He says the data from the 2nd article's position, we're talking about sportsman and sportsman, has been kept for ten years. We added this and said: “The figures of the 2nd article are kept for ten years, from the day the athlete stopped active in sports, or from the day when the sports expert or sports expert stopped performing professional work in sports, or other professional activities. “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” The amendment was rejected by reason of the fact that the bill was prepared in full co-operation with the Commissioner for Information of Meaning. I don't see what the problem is. We've only explained more precisely what you've given in the article and I don't see why our amendment has not been accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48324	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Vanja Udovicic. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48325	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have very detailedly considered your amendment and I must say that we had a dilemma, but we believe that the proposed norm in the law is broader when it comes to data collection. We have explained that this is fully and fully co-operated with the Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection. This law also has his positive opinion. It was very difficult to comply with all the standards precisely with the needs of data storage. When it comes to transfer, why do we think it's wider in law? Because we don't just want to have information about the contract that took place in the transfer, what we want to know is whether that transfer happened and whether it ended and whether all the provisions of that contract were fully implemented. That's why we want to expand the norm and have more data when it comes to the transfer of athletes from one organization to another. That's about attitude two. As far as Article 3 is concerned, we do not consider that notification is necessary because Article 4 is much more detailed in data storage and protection of personal data. We've been taking a lot of care when it comes to minors' data, when it comes to sportsmen's data. I repeat again, we believe that by accepting the amendment, we would reduce the obligations they have and this is what we consider to be much broader. When it comes to attitude 8 and keeping 10 years of information, we have an objective problem, which is when a athlete stopped engaged in sports activities, when he ended his career, whether after finishing his professional or amateur career he continued to engage in amateur or recreationally, especially sports expert and especially coaches. The coach when he finishes his career, which is the moment when he ends his career, whether he officially works as an adviser to someone and whether he deals with his work, because the sports expert is not only covered by coaches, is covered by wider faces and cannot be sure whether someone has completed their career or not. We consider a certain kind of discrimination if someone were to declare that they are no longer engaged in this activity because we want the sport to be perfected and we want to consider coaches of a kind and education in sport because we think it is necessary for their entire life span to contribute to the development of sport. As a result of this respect for the submission of your amendment, we believe that it is much wider covered by the bill than by your amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48326	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has a folk letter from Adrian Anastasov.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48327	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am very pleased with Mr. Minister's explanation, so I won't be long, when it comes to this transfer contract in Article 5. As the minister said, clearly precise transfer criteria have now been defined in both the country and international transfers, so that when specifically it focuses on the contract, we mean that we are thinking about the overall transfer that is taking place. In addition, we talked about adequate education, health care and everything else, and that the contract might not cover, the transfer contract itself, all that data. When we talk about co-operation with the Commissioner for Public Information and Personality Data Protection, all members are really carefully prepared in co-operation with him, and how much he has good co-operation with the Ministry of Youth and Sports shows the prize the Ministry of Youth and Sports received last year for transparency in the work in the Republic organ category. So the minister and his associates received this award from the Commissioner for Public Information, and we can really say that in collaboration with him all these members and the whole law has been prepared and that there is really no problem there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48328	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Dr Blagoja Bradic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48329	Thank you. Minister, we also think, the problem is only in Article 5(2), where you under realised transfer consider everything that makes the transfer, from contract to payment of money and the realisation of all that is in the contract. Come on, that the lawyers needed to explain it a little bit more and, yes, those who read this law and apply it, to make it clear that this is comprehensive, because not all of them are trained lawyers. What I won't agree with you is that in Section 3 in accordance with the law, what we said with the prior notification of the person to whom the data is normal, the same thing the trustee said, that it implies, I don't see why it doesn't stand, it doesn't hurt. What I would suggest to you, in the course of the debate, that the committee of directors submit an amendment and supplement this member, this is 10 years of keeping information. I'd suggest to you, what does 10 years mean? I would suggest to you that information about every athlete, since we can't tell when a athlete stops sporting activity, goes from the moment the information occurs. So someone who keeps that file must have a deadline to keep it safe. Or let everyone interpret how they think they should be looked after. But it's better, if there's already a limit to it, we can't limit it when a athlete stops being a athlete from the moment the information starts they're obliged to keep that document for 10 years and then destroy it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48330	Thank you. The word is by Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stojmirović. Here you go, Mr. Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48331	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I have no doubt that the promoter had a good intention, that he wanted to fix the legal solution that came from the government, but on the other hand, as one colleague said yesterday, that professional people should do these laws, here's an example here today, and we see that the law is really made by people who are from the profession and that it's done well and quality. These are just nuances compared to what the amendment promoter gives me and I think that the legislator and the government did a good thing not to accept these recommendations, because the solutions that are within the law are better quality.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48332	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48333	I would like to point out that this is fully in line with international sports rules and what obliges us to say, all international sports organisations. I'm just going to lean on your suggestion about keeping it for 10 years. The watchdog deadline was set by the Law on Archival Construction, and we were guided by these very provisions, that law, and we didn't consider it to be precise, because when we read the law, we read it in full and all those legal provisions resulting from other laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48334	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48335	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, of course, that any institute you install in some law can be additionally burdened by some additional control obligations and the amendment promoter, of course, did not have a bad intention. But, you know, you don't even need to burden too many legal projects, you don't need to complicate, you don't need to get into some administrative procedures, into some technical obligations that they're burdening, in this case, national sports alliances, about some kind of notification of athletes. I have the biggest objection in this amendment to my colleague's position 5 is to co-operate between national sports alliances that collect data, between international sports alliances and national sports alliances, which is why notification when the following attitude is already given in which cases the data is exchanged. To run a special database now, it has to be either in writing or in some electronic form, because on this amendment, if you install this member of the law, someone can call the next day. You're creating a technical difficulty on national sports alliances, because I'm saying, it's about regulating the status of a contract, so, possibly if there's some abuse in those contracts, a regulated question from the law on international performances, and exactly in four of these positions, it's defined when there's co-operation and when these data can be given. So let's not put too much pressure on this text of the law. I think even without what's been suggested, quite certainly, in the first place, we have been defined to protect the personality data of all athletes and that, I'm sure, national sports alliances must, and by law, they are obliged to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48336	Thank you. The word is made by MP Goran Vukadinovic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48337	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Widow, dear Perunicic with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as former athlete, I had to report to my dear colleague who had just explained the amendment. I'd like to say that first of all, this law did not come to the regular procedure of this home and that a colleague that was in Nis on May 13th could hear the word of athletes. On this occasion, I would like to commend the entire ministry, which is on a dozen public hearings and the stands, all of this is fully exposed. I'd like to compliment them on all the objections that athletes had on those stands all put up and packaged into this law. I am pleased that this law is a springboard for a new privatisation law that will be adopted by 2018. I'd just like to say to my dear colleagues and colleagues that this law sport has written. So, sport has written this law and athletes are quite familiar and all praise to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48338	Thank you. National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Dejan Nikolic, Jovan Markovic, Vesna Martinović, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Dragan Sutanovac and Vesna Marjanovic submitted to the 8th amendment. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development, the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48339	Dear Ministers, honourable colleagues and fellow Members, this article refers to the formulation of the basic terms that are given here in the single, we thought it should be in the plural. It means, instead of “sports activity, or sports activity, ” to replace these words with“ sports activities, or sports activities. ” I think it's a good thing that this amendment was accepted and that it was consistent with both Article 9 and a few other members of this law that had a formulation that we also suggested and on that side I think that's okay. We also tried to point out a few important things in the principle debate and, of course, in the amendments that we have made to amend the bill. I'm sorry that you may not have had the opportunity or enough to realize how much we really wanted and how much effort we've made to make the key topics, and the key topics in this case are for us, the question of funding that we haven't ultimately improved through the amendments we've made. The second thing, the key thing for us, if we had a first and a basic goal, which is to raise the coverage of citizens of Serbia who deal with physical activities with the existing 10% on what is the EU norm, which is 40% had to pay more attention to the role of local administrations, local alliances, school sports, all those people who today with their profession can start ideas, projects and what is particularly important, the question and we will talk about it later, and that is exactly the role of people who are professional, trained and trained to do this job. So, in the first step, it had to be given an accent on their role and I hope that later in the explanation of the amendments concerning that segment you would appreciate some of our remarks in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48340	I thank you, Mr. Markovic. I didn't want to interrupt you, but I'd like to ask you to contribute to this debate and just limit yourself to an amendment that is currently being discussed so that we don't go back where I don't think this debate deserves to be discussed. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Here you go, Mr. Petrich.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48341	On Article 10, right? I'm sorry, I didn't hear.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48342	Article 10, Mr. Petrich.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48343	Thank you. In Article 10(6), which speaks of the consent of both parents to conclude the contract in question for persons who do not have the ability to conclude the contracts themselves, we believe that they should be amended for several reasons. First, such a person cannot even conclude on his own by the laws of Family Law and the Law on Liabilities, he has no right. Secondly, a person who does not have full business capacity in the conclusion of the contract must be represented by a legal representative who has already been appointed by a court. He could be one or two parents. Thirdly, in situations where the athlete doesn't have both parents, meaning when one parent died or is a frantic example, I don't know, at serving a legal sentence outside our country, or in a peace mission somewhere outside our country where there's no possibility of coming from him or who knows what other reason, we don't think the child should suffer, that there's enough consent of one parent. Fourthly, objectively, this type of contract is not required to be certified in accordance with the law, because in our opinion it increases the costs of the organisation. We know what a difficult material situation we're in at the republican level, let's say. And we think that this solution that we have offered here, that it allows the contracts to be signed at the same time by both sports and parents who exercise parental law, which are already determined by judicial processes and who have the authority to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48344	Thank you. The word has a minister, Vanja Udovicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48345	Just because it's about a child's life and his career and his life, we've also written a five-page explanation for your amendment. In two minutes I can't read all five pages for legal precision, but we've been through the law to keep the child from all negative effects and to write the law in the best interests of the child. You know, when we talk about issues that affect the life of a child, we can't easily accept solutions. When it comes to both parents' consent, I'll only list some things that concern us and why we're even looking for the strictest criteria when it comes to the life of a child. You know, when a child, especially in that earliest age when it comes to signing a contract with a sports manager, when it has to move to a different environment, when it has to go to live somewhere else, when he's signing a contract for five years, when it comes to the economic rights of a child and when he literally gives that child his rights and obligations to someone else, we consider and we have called on the Family Law that, as in Family Law, both parents' consent is necessary, that due to the complexity of the situation of the athlete to accept both parents and to agree when it comes to the life of that child and the future of that child. I must say, in the opening statement, I said that I've seen many talents that have passed from middle to center and that have disappeared because of bad influence. But we can't say that a child who is 14 can see or one parent is enough to accept that child to conclude a lifetime contract. We now rule it out and we give it, exactly the rules under which terms contracts can be signed, as they are signed, that they must be certified in accordance with the law, after you have touched the contracts themselves, and we protect the rights of the child. We want to, I mean, I'm sorry, I have to break up because I only have two minutes to answer to you on this amendment, but on this subject, as I said, we have five sides of the explanation, because we've been taking great care of the rights of the child and we've been taking care of the best interests of the child.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48346	I thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Petrich, I assume you wanted a replica, but you have no right. You can only have five minutes. (Milan Petric, from the place: All right, five minutes. ) You are not in any way, but if you think you really need to say something important, I will give it to you, but the minister did not mention you in any negative context in order to have the right to reply. Do you insist? (Milan Petrovic, from the place: Yes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48347	Of course, the minister did not say anything in a negative context, but I would like to ask one additional question – do you think that those children whose parents, for reasons I mentioned earlier, are not in the state, simply do not have the opportunity to appear in the state, do we think of them and can we at least ensure that one parent who is able to sign, that he sign? And not that it's necessary for both parents to sign, because one is currently beyond his ability to come and attend this signing or for some other reason. That's all there is to it. Anyway, our entire amendment only comes down to that part. So just specifically to that part, the thing is that another parent is unable to do because of some other things, higher legal or, say, here's the example, in a peace mission he's out of our country and he's not able to contact a person like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48348	Thank you. Replica, here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48349	So let me answer you. I just said that we have called on a family law that regulates these situations in detail and we want to have the strictest criterion when it comes to it, because when a child is supposed to travel abroad, if parents are separated or divorced, another parent needs consent. We believe that when it comes to signing a long-term contract, when it comes to moving to a different environment, it is much more important that both parents agree with each other than when a child should travel abroad. That's why I've set one perhaps smaller example, but you know, when you need to give one manager the right to economic rights of yours and when you give him your rights and obligations, when he can represent you and lead you to another environment and negotiate you instead, we consider very complex these issues and therefore we want to protect maximumly, and I believe in today, honestly, that they can't overcome any new situation in two days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48350	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has a national MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48351	Article 10(6), which refers to the conclusion of a contract with a minor who has no business capacity and the necessity of consent of both parents, best shows how many governments, i.e. the competent ministry, are going to meet to protect the best interests of a minor. I want to say that in accordance with the family law, Article 6, Article 75, Article 78, as well as the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, which you have detailedly explained, a complete response to the proposed amendment is just about to arise, and in fact a perfectly justified answer arises that the proposed amendment cannot be accepted. I must point out that an agreement signed by a minor, or a contract, is that certain rights, duties and obligations resulting from that contractual relationship cannot be unilaterally broken down in accordance with Article 50(3). After all, parents who do not adequately exercise their parental rights and their parental responsibilities are parents who are mostly either partially or completely deprived of parental rights, so they certainly do not need that consent, in accordance with the law. Also, consent from the parents who died, the death of the parents is proven by a copy of the Mother Book of the Dead. Also, it won't be necessary in those situations either. A parent who does not live with a child has the right, the duty and the obligation to decide and to agree with the parent with whom the child lives on all important issues relating to the child, and certainly an important question is a contractual relationship, because it is a purely legal relationship. These are all the reasons why the amendment should not be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48352	Thank you. National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Dejan Nikolic, Jovan Markovic, Vesna Martinović, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Dragan Sutanovac and Vesna Marjanovic submitted to the 10th amendment. Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48353	Dear Minister, I had a dilemma about proposing this amendment. He's in line with what we talked about in the last few minutes. So item 6, it is also suggested that this term "both parents" be deleted. The dilemma was that I was present at a public debate when we talked, among other things, about this subject and this issue. Because of all the examples that have been said then and in some public debates in Serbia, I wanted to make a contribution through this proposal that all these possible problems that would arise in the event that a contract is not concluded for some reason that one parent is unable to do so, and also by respecting all this you have said, the explanation you have given both verbally and in writing really stands, as well as the invitation to all members of the Family Law. I had a dilemma, but I suggested it for one reason. So, I think it's enough formulation and that in other laws and family law, etc., it stands - if a contract with a sportsman, which has no full business ability, can be fully concluded only with the written consent of parents. So, the wording saying it's parents, it's enough for me. If you want to exclude or indicate that you need to do otherwise, then you would say – in the agreement of one parent, but if you say – with the consent of your parents, then it is understood that both parents are concerned and then perhaps through a sublegal act you could specify what it means if one parent cannot or is unable to sign that consent. For this reason, I have submitted this amendment, although I also respect the remarks, or suggestions that you have made in your reasoning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48354	Thank you. The word is a folk letter from Nevenka Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48355	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, this is another similar amendment and I think we will have more amendments, two amendments, with a similar content, and there is a similar explanation. It's about Article 10(6), and, of course, as the minister said, this is where we need to start from the principle of the best interest of the child. It's all about family law, but it's also about the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. Let's once again apostrophe that there are two groups of questions here, two groups of decisions regarding the child's best interest. The first group of questions refers to the daily life of a child, where the consequences, which are possible, are easily eliminated. There's only one parent's consent. There are other questions, decisions, which are particularly important for the child's longer life, where these consequences, which can arise, cannot be easily or very difficult to remove. Right here in this article we're talking about underage child contracts, which is a particularly important question for his long life. There is certainly a need for both parents' consent, and this agreement is not required by parents who have no parental right, who have lost that right and who do not have the authority to decide on important issues for the child’s life. So, on the basis of all of this, I believe and my view is that this amendment should be rejected, because it is guided by the principle of the best interest of the child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48356	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48357	I thank you, Chairman. I think we could make this pretty simple in legal terminology the whole story, because this amendment would really introduce excessive norms. I support the motive of the amendment's promoter to be precise or better defined or, let's say, a termologically advanced member, a provision. I have to draw attention, when it comes to parental consent, the minister has already stressed, we have situations in practice that happen that a parent whose child is entrusted with parental rights, when going beyond the borders of the state, must seek the consent of another parent. Family law provides certain solutions that are related to how the other parent gives that consent. In this case, if a new definition of "both parents" were introduced, nothing would change, they wouldn't get anything new. In fact, we already have in the Family Law a systematized way of giving consent and how consent is given to certain status issues and status issues relating to a minor child. So, you probably also consulted the profession when you defined this member and I think it's fully characterized by the provisions of Family Law. Underlaws can't regulate this matter. It can only come, elementally, to changes and additions to family law and thus be better defined. However, as long as the Family Law does not change, this norm must remain as it is, because it would be in collegiate with the provisions of Family Law and thus create a certain degree of legal uncertainty. Thank you. Anyway, I support the motivation of the motionor for one of these amendments, but I'm undermining, nothing contributes, nothing new happens, we're staying somewhere on the same thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48358	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Vanja Udovicic. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48359	To answer to Mr. Markovic. It's true, we talked about this subject and through public debates. I had a chance to talk to both public debates and representatives of sports organizations, but also with parents, with coaches. Just because there was an abuse in practice that called for both parents not to be needed, to write only parents, we wanted to point out that consent must be given by both parents, and precisely to remove any misunderstanding or invitation on any other basis, and yet respecting and respecting the best interests of the child. I'm not saying people, when they're reading the law, they're trying to understand it anyway, and I think in this particular norm that we need to specify in detail, again, in the best interests of the child. Thank you and thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48360	Thank you. Mr. Jovan Markovic, by amendment, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48361	Dear Minister, I think my colleague Jovanovic's discussion confirmed what I wanted to point to, which is family law. I fully respect your motive. I understand exactly what angle you were thinking when you suggested a solution like this. I still think that a good enough formula is "parent consent". My perhaps exclusive reason and motive why I suggested that "both" be deleted are exactly many situations where you have, say family, violence, there has been a divorce, there has been a conflict in the family, so you have a situation where maybe there is a little girl, who lives with her mother, through some immediate process, came up with a position to negotiate a life contract in some sport and come into a situation that her father, because she went out with her mother or that she has unresolved relationships, says - I'm not interested and you won't get my consent. What do we do with these kids? Those were motives, but I appreciate you thinking about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48362	Thank you. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Ivan Karic and Mr Blagoja Bradic. The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic. Here you go, Mrs. Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48363	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will try in a similar way to convince the minister to accept our amendment. We have, unlike colleagues, added that consent except for both parents can give away one of the parents the child lives with. Of course, it's a contract with athletes who don't have full business skills. I appreciate that the Ministry has made an effort and great reason to reject this amendment of ours. Of course, the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, various members of the Family Law, is quoted as giving examples of when one of the parents can agree on something when both parents have to agree on a situation of life. I do not dispute, I appreciate your explanation, but you have not convinced me that this amendment is not good. I'm still saying that there are situations like when another parent is out of the country, on another continent, when it's impossible to find him, and there's no ban on taking care of a child. So there are life situations. It led us to write this amendment. The situations that practically exist in life, and I don't see at all why this amendment of ours is being rejected, and especially I can't accept the last passage of your refusal where it's said that the amendments on potential problems in practice can't be sufficient reason to deny their legal rights to the child and parents. On the contrary, we did not want to, there is no depriving of the legal rights of one or both parents from our amendment. I don't think your claim stands, I think it's absurd. Once again, I urge you to consider that by adopting this amendment, you will find yourself in a situation of a child, extremely talented that cannot get the consent of both parents outside of sports activities or possibly some major sports successes. Once again, I ask you to consider this amendment of ours. I repeat, so our amendment consists of adding the words “both parents” after the words“ or“ one parent with whom the child lives. ” Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48364	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go, Mr. Widow.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48365	Well, these situations are regulated by the Family Law and consent of parents living abroad can also be sent through the embassy. I had a chance to play in clubs abroad with players whose parents were divorced and who sent consent through the embassy for much more harmless questions. I wouldn't bring down the importance of any situation in this situation, but I think, since it's about the economic rights of the child and the future of the child, that we should follow full Family Law and that we should be more stringent than the family law, and that's why I don't feel that we should stand down. The situation in the country when, as mentioned earlier whether parents are divorced, whether they are in a potential fight, so they exist under the Family Law a social worker, so the court decides, because again we do not want to reduce the importance of this issue. We believe that stricter rules are needed when it comes to the conclusion of a minor athlete with a manager or with a club and that there are no life barriers that cannot be overcome again in view of today's time and the possibility of sending information, letters, data, consent within three days from any end of the world. That's why we've been thinking about how to protect them, as was said here, young talents that may yet have to be proven, which are extra-serial talents not to deny their rights, but, you know, when that child needs to change the environment, when she needs to leave her parents, when she needs to leave her friends, her friends, well, what if one parent wants to take that child and take him with her? We cannot allow only one parent to decide and to be a milder situation in this particular situation, but rather what is prescribed in the Family Law, but what is the situation in the practice that is happening. We think that these situations are more extreme and more important and that they should be stricter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48366	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go, Mr. Gursich.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48367	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, we agree that your motives, our motives, are in favor of protecting themselves in the greatest possible way through the letter of this child's rights law. We felt, as we agree, that until now there have been abuses that one of the parents may not have given consent to the sport of his child, we think that in this way we may have damaged in some other cases, in those dysfunctional families where one parent knowingly neglects his parental obligations. Unfortunately, there are a lot of cases, and in our courts today you can see where the courts are trying to reach parents who are avoiding their parental obligation. We felt that if this formulation remains somehow, I can't see from this formula that's now in the law, you're saying in the explanation that parents won't be asked to give consent unless they're deprived of parental rights, or authority to decide questions that affect the life of a child. That's what you interpreted the law in that way as a minister and people from the Ministry. Perhaps some courts in practice will now interpret it differently, and they will ultimatically seek, as both parents say, regardless of the real situation, and whether the other parent is ever fulfilling his legal obligations, and then in this case, in particular, he appears and requires that he has some rights. I mean, it's a very sensitive question, of course, there's Family Law, of course, that now in some other cases, we and you are headed by child welfare, talented children who can become top-notch athletes who already sign some contracts in the early years. The only thing I'm saying is, you're looking at one side, we're looking at the other side, we've tried this law to reconcile both sides, we'll see what the practice will bring. Anyway, that concern for the rights of young, talented athletes is what we share. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48368	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48369	I thank the chairman. We have already entered the Corps of Legal Affairs, classic legal issues. I need to draw attention to knocking on the wrong door around here. Let's try to amend the provisions of the Family Law first, make them as precise as possible, and then we'll easily get to the point of adapting the Sport Act that applies to this particular situation to the Family Law. Otherwise, we cannot, because dear fellow MPs, it is simply that if a underage child is entrusted to the sole exercise of parental rights to a parent, there is no problem. It is exclusively parental law that implies that there is no need to seek the consent of another parent. But with this amendment, if you say there's no need to ask for another parent's consent when the child is already living with one parent, we have such situations in court practice. We also have a situation with joint custody, although custody is common to determine who the child will be staying with, but yet the consent of another parent is still needed, it cannot be avoided. We have a situation far more drastic, when one of the parents committed a crime, so he's on the run, so it's impossible to find him. We have situations, as the fellow amendment promoters here say, are abroad. Yeah, it's possible to try through the embassy to get consent, but not always. That's why it's necessary to intervene in the provisions of Family Law, and then clearly define this matter and then we wouldn't have these problems. If this amendment were to be introduced, implemented into law, we would be collapsing with the provisions of Family Law, and then we already have one serious problem. I really don't think there's a need in this situation for us to create a completely unequal norm between the two laws and to bring two laws into conflict, into cohesion. Let's just cut the story here, let's not have any more discussion and not waste unnecessary time and energy on something that applies to other legal matter that we can regulate far better and avoid all of this that represents the reason for our controversy here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48370	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Ninoslav Giric. Here you go, Mr. Giric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48371	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues, so I am a layman for family law, but from the very explanation of the minister, the discussion that followed after that, I really urge that we continue not to lick this story. Only the Ministry tried to meet all the criteria and respect the rights of the child, not in breach of that, not entering family law. So, as far as I'm concerned, I'm not voting to accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48372	Thank you. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Petrich.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48373	In Article 11, we have made several solutions, mainly because we are trying to avoid abuses that could occur in order to pay these mandatory fees. I'm going to try to simplify as much as I can, and from what angle we see as the state of these things. Let's just say, if a sportsman's contract is made for three years, I'm cartooning, in the course of two years, the first sports organisation invests in it quite, financially, in an organisational sense, and everything else, then forms it as a athlete, forms it of a quality, if it's lucky. However, for some particular reasons, or, say, budget cuts, which happen a lot lately, they are not able to pay off and follow these contractual provisions that are legally binding and, say, come into a situation that has not been paid by the athletes for three months. Of course, that athlete, for normal reasons, is breaking up the contract, going to another sports organization. After going to another sports organization, which usually receives it without any compensation, there is the possibility of going to a third sports organisation. What happens then? This third sports organization gives other sports organisations every possible compensation. So, in fact, the second one is profiting, while the first one has no financial ability to prosper, and if it's the most responsible because it's made that subtrist and formed him as a sports person and made him some quality of it. I think this amendment of ours contains more precise solutions to address such situations, and I think, if not more precisely, at least, at the very least, the most necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48374	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48375	Just in view of both Contracting Parties and respecting, I mean by protecting both sides, the proposed standards are primarily in line with the International Sports Rules, so they are in line with EU rules and the practice of EU courts. We have received the consent of all alliances through a public debate on these norms, which is extremely important, because the alliances have so far followed the work of clubs when it comes to the height of freaks for development or compensation, to make it clearer. I'll explain on my personal case. When I was playing in the water polo club "Partizan" at no time did I pay membership fees and fees, i.e. the amount of compensation for my development or compensation was determined by the tables prescribed by the Alliance. When, for certain reasons, I left the water polo club, I now had to go under those tables of the club I'm going to or I'm personally to pay that compensation for my development or to pay compensation. It's from our point of view and the proposed proposal okay, because a sports player who doesn't pay membership fees, i.e. The parent doesn't pay for it, the club should have a certain fee, because he invested energy, invested knowledge, invested in the terms he paid and the funds and all that required the training of an athlete. You, when you pay a membership fee, you pay for it, for that training, a parent for a player, he pays for someone to teach you, like when you learn a foreign language, a teacher doesn't come looking for compensation because he taught you because you paid for it. Then when you move to a different environment, if you have paid your compensation, you meet the needs of that club, but we have here prescribed that the club has the right to compensation or the development fee, in case the player has not paid or relatively reduced compared to what the player has paid. Now, for any contractual reason, if you leave the club, so you've already made a commitment when you signed a contract with a player and if you haven't listed the terms of compensation or the conditions for leaving that club, and it's your fault that you're not paying someone, so how can we say that you deserve that club to charge something when you don't respect the basic contractual obligations to that player? Then he's an absolute player in an unequal position and an absolute player is unprotected, I must say. That's why I started, given both sides and trying to meet both sides, on the one hand the need for players, on the other hand the club needs, we prescribed, i.e. propose such standards in the draft law. I'm sorry, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48376	I thank you, Mr. Minister. National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Dejan Nikolic, Jovan Markovic, Vesna Martinović, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Dragan Sutanovac and Vesna Marjanovic submitted to the 11th amendment. The word is made by the MP mg Jovan Markovic. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48377	Minister, I have given an amendment relating to Section 5, and I think it is one of the key points of view in this law, again, I would like to point out that I am respecting your reasons for both the public debate and here when you explained the bill's proposal, when you talked about this cooperation of clubs, the sale of players, etc. I'm going to spend a little more time fighting for this amendment that I've proposed, because I think it's important and it is in the spirit and what you've been saying and I think we can agree that this proposal that I've made might be a better solution. So, you say in Article 11 paragraph 5. "The sports organisation from which the athlete leaves cannot ask for a fee for development, i.e. the training of the athlete of the item 4 of this article if the athlete or his parent or guardian paid that sports organisation membership fee or compensation for the pursuit of sports activities, sports equipment and sports preparation", and then goes to a tighter and say "that is, the compensation must be relatively reduced". I can understand the intensity of this proposal and what the ultimate goal was. However, I believe that this interpretation in practice means the following. First, the beginning of this attitude says – a sports organization cannot ask for it, and here I am told everything. My proposal is going to change the context and say that a sports organisation can seek and then explain itself - if there were investments, if there were membership fees, if there were purchases of sports equipment, payment of preparation, etc. and behind the comma is that the fee must be relatively reduced, and below we add another sentence, which is that the sports organisation must keep records of the investment of parents or guardians. So if in this context we were to look at things and give the opportunity to take dozens of small sports clubs and organizations because they had their costs, enthusiasm, work etc. come to the opportunity to at a certain point and collect what they have invested in that player, or in that athlete, reduced, of course, for everything that parents have given there, I think that we are achieving a certain justice and that we are achieving the goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48378	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48379	We have recognized your good intentions very much, and I believe that our goal is the same as in all the other segments, but we have seen that you want to fully contribute to making this norm as high as possible. I have to say primarily that in practice there was an abuse and we want to point out that there is no possibility of billing and that it stands as a negativity in the law that it is clear that there is no possibility of billing if it happens, and not that there is other than the opposite. So we prefer to focus that there is no right of someone to compensation if this other person was paying for their perfection. It is indisputable that the right exists and we agree there, but we are merely saying that we need to put the negativity in the first place, that it is clearly determined that there is no right to that compensation. I repeat again, through public debates and through communication with athletes and sports experts, workers, with a whole system of sports, some norms have to have a different sound to recognize them on the ground, because right on the ground there is a situation where some norms are read differently. That's why we're running a sports expert's exam, because I'm in the opening statement saying that people came to me and they don't know that there's a Sport Act and there are no sublegal acts and there's no system arrangements, and they've been in sports for more than ten years. That's why by focusing on some of the standards, we want to put meaning into writing exactly what we're thinking. The idea of the record, as explained in your amendment, is indisputable and we respect, but there are clear criteria for keeping and registering and which are criteria for the data itself that would enter that record. That would also lead to the possibility of abuse tomorrow in practice, which is not our goal. For that reason, we have not accepted your amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48380	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48381	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's not like he can't. It is true that he read well that a sportsman cannot, or a sports organisation, make no development compensation, but he overlooked a few words at the end of this attitude. They are – i.e., the compensation must be relatively reduced. So, if the athlete invested in himself or his family, but if the sports organisation invested, then the fee signed is reduced. So the possibility is that everything depends on the situation itself, on the kind of sport, on the need for sport, to find a compromise solution between athletes and his parents who certainly invest in every young athlete and sports organisation on the other hand. But in my opinion, here in this amendment, the motionary is much more problematic than the part that requires keeping records. You know, keep track of membership fees, some travel expenses, that's what law-abiding sports organisations and sports clubs are already doing. It's all about, but as far as, say, sports equipment, possibly some additional sports amendments, it's hard for one sports organization to control all that. It is very important that you have co-operation with both athletes and his parents and that the amendment is that in some way, the joint water and athletes and sports organisations, so that the collection of these data comes up with the costs invested in the athlete. That would be fine, but prescribing records only to a sports organisation seems to me that it's not real, on the one hand, and there's no need to remind you that a large number of sports organisations often have no such administrative capacity, nor that it's often required technically become. It also requires money. Therefore, there are many things that are problematic here, and if there are so many details and if there is no cooperation between athletes, or the parents of athletes and sports organisations, it is difficult to find an ideal solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48382	Thank you. The word is Mr. Jovan Markovic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48383	The Honorable colleague Antic answers only to this amendment, including the minister. I just felt that it was more logier to start this attitude with negativity and that this negativity is certainly at some point creating a problem at the time of the sport organization – a parent and someone hiring that child at some point, because parents will always think that they have invested much more than they may have in its development and will ignore what is the role of the sports club, coaches and their work. I also think that the key thing at that minimum age is to put in place control of the functioning of these clubs. If we talk about increasing the number of sports inspectors, who will, of course, play that preventive role, but also the role of organising on the ground a children's organisation, then we will come into the situation that it is normal for a sports club, or an organization to have rules to join a child in a sports club, to charge for membership fees, to say whether parents buy equipment or it's a club thing. So, these relationships, in my opinion, have to be arranged at the lowest possible level to introduce seriousness. If we link this later to the funding that we have here, and we connect it to the participation of the people that are also controversial, then we'll see that these are two areas that are very important and in which we could make things right. This is how we get parents with easy access to give kids to these clubs. It's called: pay membership fee, buy equipment like this, buy one. It's a whole other thing if we get these things sorted out and we show parents from the first moment on, a kind of seriousness that applies to their child at every turn. Then we'll have a situation to say – you can't give membership on your hands, but it's got to be over the bills or in some other way, you can't have insurance like this, etc. I mean, these are the things I wanted to achieve with this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48384	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Milan Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48385	In Article 12(1), we believe that it is unnecessary to prescribe that cases and contracts must be verified in accordance with the law, because for this type of contract we are nevertheless of the opinion that this form is not absolutely necessary. It is sufficient for the same to be verified by the competent authority of the National Border Union, as it has been so far, because, as we believe, we would still avoid unnecessary costs of the certificate in the public notebook or at the court. Well, that's our opinion.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48386	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go, Mr. Widow.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48387	We were led by the idea of introducing sport absolutely into legal flows. It's undeniable that sport is in the gray zone. What happened in practice? I can tell you from my own example and from other examples. So far it has been necessary and only valid in court arbitration if the contract has been deposited with the Alliance. Contracts were not deposited within a specified time limit, only the basic contract was deposited without the annex being deposited. Then in the situation of the dispute, it came to the fact that he was absolutely damaged by a athlete, because in the basic contract they signed all the basic obligations they had, and everything else was regulated by an annex. That's why we're introducing that all sports contracts and annexes must be certified in accordance with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48388	Thank you. The word is a folk letter from Adrian Anastasov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48389	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just what the minister said and how he explained it. So, abuse of contract, abuse of contract annexes that were not registered at all, which sports alliances were abused and malfeasances were carried out. Indeed, in order to protect athletes, he had just to refuse this amendment, because the law did not allow those contract annexes to be registered, the athletes were damaged, the receipts they had not registered, and after that they were engaged in sport could not exercise the right to retire, to adequate health care, and everything else that these contracts had not been settled in an adequate manner, nor certified under the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48390	Thank you. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Zika Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48391	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, Mr. Widowic, Mr. Perunicic with his associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs and respected citizens who are interested in today's topic we are discussing, I can only say that when it comes to the amendment that I have submitted, I fully accept the explanation that the amendment has been rejected, but only for the sake of certain situations in practice, I would like to say a few words, however, which is why I wrote this amendment and what I wanted to change it. Just a few months ago, I asked a parliamentary question that applied, and I explained it on one occasion, and now I will repeat it, but in short, on the case of sportswoman Dunja Žeravić Lalić from Sombor, who, as a karatist, achieved top results when it comes to international competitions, which, on the basis of this scholarship, received a sports scholarship and which, not only continued to deliver good results, but continued to work extremely well at the university and ended the Faculty of Economics in Subotica. What's going on? With a woman's sex involved in sports, almost every one of them has a desire to get pregnant one day. The moment she gets pregnant, she loses her chance at that year's scholarship. I understand that the goal of the scholarship is that athletes have the opportunity to improve sports, but, realistically, in practice, it's a big problem when a person in that year loses maybe the only way of funding she's had so far. We aim to make it a kind of sports training. In that year, it may not be, but it is an extraordinary opportunity to return and achieve the sports results she had until then. That's one example we have in various environments, and I've listed only one name and name. I understand even that this may not be an opportunity, when we talk about this law, and that you may not be able to fully define this problem without some other changes to the law and perhaps even some sublegal acts that might later be passed and I have no doubt that you will try to solve this problem in the future. Because, you know, local self-governments that are burdened with huge problems simply can't take this kind of thing on themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48392	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48393	I recognize good motivation and intent for your amendment. When it comes to scholarships, it's one of the questions that you're asking is yours, and she's not the only athlete who's left behind and lost her right to a scholarship. But to members 17. We are just saying that the bill is a scholarship to perfecting and that we want to help primarily minor athletes, and then other categorized athletes to get money from the Republic, the AP, units of local self-government, to have the right to better development and to recognize them at that earliest age. We do have the same application of the entire law and we strive and we strive to apply the law to both the Republic and the AP and the units of local self-government, and to motivate everyone in the system of sports to respect funding, to respect the scholarship of athletes and to recognize those of our highest quality athletes, primarily those of the minors, who will yet achieve top results. Therefore, we are not in a position to meet at this time, but we are ready to discuss the proposed subject and to consider, in order to remove these doubts in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48394	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has a folk MP Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48395	Thank you, Chairman. I consider the proposed amendment to be excessive, as Article 13. The proposal for a law on sports is very detailed, very precise and that the attitude of Article 13, which is precisely what the professional athlete has all the rights, obligations and responsibilities of the employment relationship. As for labour law protection of athletes during pregnancy, absence due to the maintenance of pregnancy, maternity leave, child care and special care of the child, it is all precise and adequately regulated by the Labour Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48396	Thank you. The 18th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Members of the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, jointly submitted the 18th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48397	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, therefore, Article 18 speaks about transfer contracts and grant contracts. He says that the transfer contract has been written and certified in accordance with the law, a contract between a sports organisation with which a athlete has a fully concluded contract, in accordance with this law, and a sports organisation in which a athlete passes, and a concession agreement is written and assured under the law, a contract between a sports organisation with which a athlete has a fully concluded contract, in accordance with this law, and a sports organisation to which a athlete is temporarily passing, on the basis of which the sports organisation with which the athlete has concluded the contract agrees that the athlete temporarily passes into a sports organisation with which the contract is concluded. The following position states that the contract referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article may be fully concluded only with written and certified, in accordance with the law, consent of athletes. We've suggested two more bets. One view says: “In the absence of consent to the contracts referred to in Article 1 and 2 of this article, a athlete must not suffer adverse consequences or refuse consent may be the basis for the termination of a fully concluded contract between a sportsman and a sports organisation. “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” The following attitude states: “A sportsman who, in the absence of consent to the contracts referred to in Article 1 and 2 of this article suffers adverse consequences or is therefore to be terminated by a fully concluded contract with a sports organisation, has the right to compensation for material and immaterial damages. “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” You replied, Mr. Minister, that the proposed amendment was rejected because its acceptance would impose the right to compensation for immaterial damages for breach of the contract, although this right was not established by a law which regulates bond relations, while protection against adverse consequences by a sportsman was ensured by the provisions of Article 4, paragraphs 2 to 5, of Article 12(4), etc. You're wrong, Mr. Minister. Therefore, Article 4, points 2 to 5, speaks of discrimination against athletes, and Article 4, Article 4, says that a sportsman, or another person, has the right to compensation for the damage suffered by acts of discrimination, abuse, abuse and violence by an organisation or persons in the field of sports under the terms of points 3 and 6. of this article. So, this amendment of ours has only worked out what you have given as a member of the bill, Article 18, because, if we pay attention to paragraph 3, he says that the contract referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this article can be fully concluded only with written and certified, in accordance with the law, the consent of athletes. We just worked this out and said that a athlete can't take any damage. If he is in harm's way for not giving consent, then he has the right to compensation for material and immaterial damage, which you have spoken in Article 4, and I ask you to reconsider this and accept our amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48398	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48399	We have had a serious dilemma to accept this amendment and we have considered it for a long time, but we believe that this is also broaderly covered by the bill. We believe that this situation is an act of discrimination, and that it should be prescribed in that harmony. We support your idea and agree, but the legal obstacle to accepting this amendment is because it would introduce the right to immaterial damage, and to violate a contract that does not exist under the general regime. We believe that transfer is not more important than other contracts in the sport system to introduce the right to immaterial damage just for that contract. And that's why we decided not to accept your amendment. I'm saying again, we had a serious dilemma, because we recognize both good intentions and we wanted to fully protect the athlete, as I've talked about before and when it comes to transfer and when it comes to our sports contracts, and we think that this kind of discrimination is in sport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48400	Thank you. The word is by Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stojmirović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48401	Dear colleagues and colleagues, this is another amendment, according to the minister, where the proponents' goodwill is seen to improve the legislative proposal. In terms of athletes in almost all kinds of sports, there have been a lot of bad contracts and there have been even those contracts that athletes didn't know about. We had such an example recently with footballer Zivkovic, who became the most likely victim of something he had never taken part in. Someone signed a contract on his behalf that he's bound to move into some particular club. We had the opportunity to read about what happened to a young and perspective man in public information daily because it wasn't legally regulated. I hope that this law will make much right, most likely, and it's certain that it can't make everything right, that a athlete can't provide 100%, but there's a good will to sort it out most of the cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48402	Thank you. Members of the 18th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. I see you're impatient. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48403	Ladies and gentlemen, I can see that Mr. Giric is impatient, as he began to throw away before I got the word, Mr. Becic, but you have very precisely stated that the amendment that we People's MPs of the New Party have submitted to article 18 of this bill is one of the four accepted amendments, gentlemen. I would like to announce as a proposal for this amendment a great pleasure, which I have also contributed to a legislative project, that the content of one bill becomes better, because it will concern the lives of all the people who come here, who live here, and above all our citizens. I must say here, Minister Widow and you must hear, for you have seen the subject of our previous amendment, despite your acceptance of it, of the resistance here in performances, speeches, my colleagues and colleagues from the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48404	Mr. Pavicevic, please, can I at least get a little change?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48405	Here, this is all about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48406	Well, we never got to the amendment that reads, should I read it, Mr. Pavic?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48407	You read it correctly. Here you go. But, no...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48408	The amendment reads: ‘The transfer records, i.e. the transfer of minor athletes to another sports organisation, shall be accompanied by the relevant figures on the persons referred to in Article 5(2) of this Act. Come on, please, about this thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48409	Here, now I'm going to lean on what you said. Thank you for being the Vice-President of the Assembly yourself and chairing today's session and reading the contents of this accepted amendment. I would like to say that it is my special pleasure, Minister Udovic, that in the day of voting all my colleagues from all parties and even from the SNS may, despite their will, vote in favour of the bill, vote in favour of this amendment. Well done, gentlemen. Here, congratulations and a minister to say, which still dared to accept some of our amendments, in this case four of the seven amendments submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48410	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. Would you be happy to come to the vote and vote yes?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48411	I voted on academic honesty.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48412	The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic. Here you go, Mr. Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48413	No, I'm sorry, it was after the last amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48414	Thank you. He's got a word for it. Ljubisa Stojmirović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48415	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I am delighted that the amendment of a colleague who had previously spoken has been accepted, but I see no reason to think that we who are on this side of this position are opposed to their amendments being accepted. It's just that we're happy when you give concrete and quality...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48416	Dear Professor, I ask you not to do what Mr Pavicevic does, he has no arguments and therefore says something that is not in the amendment, but I would ask you, or concentrate on the amendment, or on someone else when the law is in principle.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48417	No problem, you just interrupted me when I was about to say it. It is very important to take care of young athletes, children who are studying and who are going to play sports. I welcome their amendment and I'm glad the bill promoter accepted it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48418	Thank you. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Ivan Karić and Mr. Dr. Blaža Bradić. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48419	Thank you, sir. Dear ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues, Serbian citizens, member of the 19th talk about sports competitions and health skills being checked out by athletes. He says: “Athlete’s sports competitions may be attended by a sports expert who has a general medical ability in the six - month period prior to the maintenance of the sports competition. Then, special health skills are determined in addition to general health skills for certain sports branches. The obligation to determine the general health performance of the Article 1 shall exist for athletes involved in the organisation of sports activities, etc. Then the attitude that we have tried to correct with the amendment, says – the costs of determining the health skills set out in Articles 1, 2 and 5 of this article are borne by a sports organisation or other organisation in the field of sport, sportsman or sports expert, thus providing that the costs of determining the health skills laid down in Articles 1, 2 and 5 of this article for minor athletes aged 6 to 14 years are covered by compulsory health insurance in accordance with the law when health skills are determined in the health care facility from the plan of a health care institution or the institution responsible for sports and sports medicine. I'm asking, and what happens if it's not done in the facilities from the network plan and the sports medicine department, then who's going to pay, but we'll discuss it well. We propose that this member look like this – The costs of determining the health skills referred to in Articles 1, 2 and 5 of this article are borne by a sports organisation or other organisation in the field of sport, i.e. by a sportsman who deals with sports activities independently or by a sports expert who performs professional work, i.e. professional activities in sport, in order to determine the health performance of the positions 1, 2 and 5 of this member for minor athletes aged 6 to 14 years are covered by compulsory health insurance in accordance with the law when health care is determined in a health institution from the plan of a network of health institutions or the institution responsible for sports medicine. We don't do this because we believe that the costs of determining the health performance of Items 1, 2 and 5 should not fall on the burden of athletes. As far as experts are concerned, we suggest that these costs are borne by those experts who perform professional work on their own, or professional activities in sport. This concludes the language and logical correction of this attitude. I'll go back to the discussion in principle when we talked about this issue. I agree that specialist examinations carried out for athletes, periodic systematic, typical systematic periodic examinations should be carried out on RFZO. I don't see why at the moment when we're talking about not having enough money in sports, when we're talking about just certain clubs, big clubs can afford doctors, sports doctors who follow teams, I'm not talking about representation because that's what the state does, when we have situations that train us sports people who haven't checked their health status whether they can deal with a particular sport, that we put it on a burden or athletes or a sports expert or sports club, that is, sports organisations. I think this should be done through the RFO because taking care of athletes we are directly concerned about the health of the population of the Republic of Serbia. What's very important is what I told you to return sports medicine to the place where it belongs. I got the information, you were welcomed by Nisli, a lot of them came to me after our principle debate that you, I guess, were two years ago and visited Nis to open up the Regional Centre for Sports Medicine, to take you to the periphery, which I think is Niska Banja and the new House of Health. I insist on it, and that's what my colleagues told me to tell you that the Niscals are asking for that center to be in Chair. The city of Nis did that, started 30 years ago, and started ending six years ago. It is the Centre for Sports Medicine, which is over 800 square meters in two levels, where suggestions were given by one Bata Stojkovic, who is a doctor of the sports team. A Mr. Boskovic, a specialist in sports medicine, Mr. Jerkan, a colleague in sports medicine who is also in class. So the city of Nis should also get to be the Regional Centre and they insist that you come back and talk to sports workers and medical workers who will absolutely support it, because Nis owns both spatial and human capacities, both professional and whatever you want, and I ask you to think about this, to relieve the clubs of giving and that what I have proposed to you in agreement with Mr. Loncar and the Republic Health Insurance Fund return it in the context of funding from mandatory health insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48420	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48421	I think we just know the importance of sports medicine doctors, and I have to point out that we had a very high-quality and detailed debate, a public debate in Nis, and it is, we've been considering the option of opening one of those hospitals, the equipment was bought, the equipment is standing in Belgrade because of the adaptation of the space mentioned, both, because it is our tendency to Nis to become a regional center when it comes to sports medicine, because we think it has potential in that area. What the draft law recognises on Article 19 is the private possibility of performing health care in private practice and we open up the possibility of healthcare services being able to carry out a health check. Well, if I went back to answer your amendment for the sake of time, we don't want to limit who pays for the review, because then they'd jeopardize the right to conclude the contracts and associations of the citizens themselves on everything that comes out. We want to open up the possibility that a third party can also pay for these checks, because we now have a situation that certain units of local self-government provide the means to conduct medical examinations precisely to protect our youngest, children, and so she and everyone in the system of sports. I'll give you a personal example. I have a congenital heart condition, and I've had a chance to go to all the mandatory health checks prescribed by the law, but I've always wanted to go to my cardiologist who's been following me since birth, because I have confidence in him right now, and why would a club or a third of them pay me a checkup at my cardiologist, because honestly, I'm more like every athlete who has a superstition and who believes in one path, want him to do the EKG, because he might have the best machine in me, and because I, as a athlete, want to go to the best doctor that I personally think he is, why would I burden anyone else to pay me for that review? And that's why we opened up the possibility of opening up that a player with a club could make a deal. It's a contractual obligation, because I honestly never had a mandatory medical examination of the basics, because it's always paid for by the club and it's always an item that's being placed or prescribed by a contract signed by a sportsman with a sports organisation, but we leave the possibility that a athlete can afford to himself or, here it is now, Belgrade City has an action, I don't know exactly how many thousands of health checks, precisely for our youngest and our desire and our tendency, through this law that free healthcare is i.e. free checks for children from six to 14 years of age, covered by compulsory health insurance when they are carried out as you said in health institutions or institutions, is a tendency for the health of our children and for the reduction of the burden, including in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48422	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has Dr. Ninoslav Girić. Here you go, Mr. Giric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48423	Thank you. I support this argument by Minister Udovicic, only a few things I would say about what the proposer of this amendment is, and it is not about this amendment, and it is about a sports dispensary in Nis and this proposal to turn it into a regional center for sports medicine. All these doctors he listed, I know very well. I worked alone for a long time in the Football Union of Yugoslavia and the Football Union of Montenegro as a doctor, so I know how it works. What the minister has stated is that it is the exact pathway of every suspicion of something relating to another speciality that comes out of the domain of sports medicine itself and orthopaedics, sports medicine physicist, is going to further examinations of cardiologists or whatever further requires. So I support this. Perhaps a further story should be considered, Nis is still a regional centre and a lot of athletes figure in that part of Serbia and it would be good to invest in such a thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48424	Thank you. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic. By amendment, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48425	Thank you. Mr. Minister, we understand each other absolutely and see that we feel the same way. Why did I say RFO? What is the essence of my discussion is that sports medicine, i.e. reviewing athletes, let's generalize because there are other specialities involved in these reviews, that it's not the market and that it's sinking business. That is why I have said it several times on purpose – with cooperation with RFZO. You know, we're going to open up health care, equalize private and state health. The owner of the capital doesn't matter who he is, health care needs to be a profession. It's important who pays for the service, so I insist that the RFO be involved, which will pay for the health examination services of athletes, whatever they are. That's the point. This is how you have the obligation, not to take time away from your colleagues now, you have compulsory health insurance, and you have the parallel health insurance paid by the club. Why? That's the same thing. We're all RFO insurance and he needs to stop as a fund of our health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48426	Thank you, Mr. Bradich. The word has Dr. Ninoslav Girić. By amendment, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48427	I'm sorry, very short. A question for my colleague Bradic. For a long time, he was the director of the branch of the Republic Fund in Nis, so the question for him is, what is it in days and years while he was CEO of the RFZO branch exactly did to solve these problems that he has now cited?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48428	Thank you. Although please, Mr. Giric, you must stick to the amendment that's on the... Here you go, Mr. Bradic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48429	Thank you. And the replica since I've been mentioned and asked...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48430	You have the right to a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48431	I'll be brief, Mr. Chairman. So, for your information, an esteemed colleague, the CEO of the RFO branch has no ability to decide and implement a different vision than the directorate says. What the low branch was doing, it's in the papers, it's verifiable, and the moment I'm director of the RFZO of the Republic of Serbia, I'm sure this will be implemented what I'm talking about right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48432	Thank you. The word has Dr. Ninoslav Giric, according to the amendment. You don't have the right to a replica, he didn't mention you to a colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48433	So, I have pleaded that this amendment should not be accepted, but I have received an answer to my question that practically the then CEO of the RFO branch in Nis has done nothing to solve these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48434	Thank you. (Blagoje Bradić, from town: Replica. ) Now you have no right, Mr. Bradic, to mention your name and name. Do you want to follow the amendment? (Blagoje Bradić, from the place: Yes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48435	For the sake of truth, let me just say it. So, all that's in the director's department's intelligence of the RFZO branch was done absolutely correctly and legally. What you haven't heard, and I repeat, everything I've been talking about now exists in the RFO documents and that's verifiable.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48436	Please, Mr. Braddick, you didn't get the right to the line. Thank you. National MP Milan Petrovic submitted to the 21st amendment. The word is made by MP Milan Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48437	Article 21(1) speaks of the insurance of athletes. We consider the prescribed insurance obligation to only top athletes and top sports experts incorrect. This obligation should be prescribed to all athletes and all sports experts in the sports organisation, with only the sum of insurance set in a special amount for top athletes and sports experts, as imposed in point 2. I can't help but mention that many insurance houses today provide extremely favourable and financially minimal conditions for such things. I think maybe there's some possibility of taking that into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48438	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48439	I have to say, that was the most debated issue in public debates. All the clubs were against expanding norms. Respecting the situation currently in Serbia, when it comes to funding and the situation in which our clubs are located, we believe that this added burden would not be equal and that this particular burden in many ways would damage our clubs. I personally strive to do so, and the government advocates that all athletes be provided. We've given the possibility that they can join together and that the club can provide all athletes. So we don't limit whether or not the club has to, but we say who has to, but we leave the possibility that he can secure everyone else. We have just started, through talks with the alliances and through talks with clubs, the possibility that when they join together and unite that they can, as such, perform together on the market and reduce the insurance premium, because when an individual goes to talk about their personal insurance or when you need to secure 15, 30, 100 athletes, and on the other hand when you take 1000, 2000, and even 250,000 athletes, that premium is reduced. We are seeking and we have already started talks with certain alliances, our largest alliances, which count the highest number of athletes, namely to enable conversations, on the one hand, with insurance companies, and on the other hand, to find common languages and perform as one in that conversation and thus enable all athletes to be covered by insurance. At this point, when they perform on their own, we think it's too much of an imposition for clubs. I have to say again, I absolutely agree with you, but given the fact that we've given up on the ground, we've given up on your amendment proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48440	I'll give you a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48441	Thank you, Chairman. I'll be very brief. I hope the minister manages to push things through to the end that all athletes will get their well-deserved insurance and that in the Sports Act we treat athletes more than just clubs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48442	Thank you, Mr. Petrich. Members of the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted together to the 21st amendment. The word has a folk MP, Dr Miroslav Marinkovic. Here you go, Mr. Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48443	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs, the Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic, SDS, the ZZS and the SS submitted a serious amendment to Article 21. What makes me happy about this amendment is the explanation given by the minister to Mr. Petric. That argument gives the right to such an amendment that we have submitted and I expect, when I explain, that there will be an increased chance that you will accept this amendment because it concerns top athletes and the insurance of top athletes. We have asked that Article 21(1) be changed and that – the sports organisation is obliged to conclude a contract on the insurance of its athletes, sports experts and sports experts from the consequences of the accident during the performance of sports activities and professional work in sport, i.e. other professional activities in sport. After Article 1, a new position 2 is added – a contract to ensure top athletes and top sports experts from the consequences of the accident during the performance of sports activities, i.e. professional work in sport, the sports organisation concludes on the basis of the ranking of athletes and sports experts. In the current position of 2nd words - from the point of view of the first article, they are replaced by the words - as set out in heading 2. Furthermore, due to the follow-up of things, item 4 is changed and reads – if a sports organisation, and I consider this very important, or the national border sports association does not conclude a contract under Article 1, 2 and 4 of this article, they are obliged to compensate for the damage suffered by a sportsman, a sports expert, or an expert in a sport that is not secured. In point 5 of the words - as set out in point 1 shall be replaced by the words ‘in headings 1 and 2’. Our argument is that the amendment proposes the obligation of sports organisations to conclude an insurance contract for all athletes, as well as for all persons performing professional activities in sport, and that for top athletes, or sports experts, the insurance contract is concluded on the basis of ranking. Since one of the top athletes represents, in a way, the national treasure, the wealth of this country, we believe that a higher degree and level of protection for such a athlete is needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48444	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48445	We have considered your proposal in detail and not to repeat myself, because I have given the explanation in one part to the previous speaker, Mr. Petric, but what is the tendency is to expand and, as I said, we are in favour. We're in one piece and we've expanded, because we've led the coaches, namely sports experts, to one part, to be provided. So we're expanding that now the coach has to be insured, but on the other hand, since you've listed sports experts, an expert in sports is considered an accountant, economist, legal adviser and others. So, there was no detail of who was an expert in sports, and you said you needed an expert in sports to be insured. They are already secured on the basis of a working contract or other engagement. That is why we do not see the need for additional security of those persons, because they already have compulsory insurance. That's why we didn't accept the amendment, because it refers exactly to sports experts who... We don't see why in sports, in the system of sports they should have extra insurance. Only for that reason. We agree with that tendency. As I said, we will work to unite the system of sports and to act as such towards insurance companies.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48446	Thank you, Mr. Minister. National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Dejan Nikolic, Jovan Markovic, Vesna Martinović, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Dragan Sutanovac and Vesna Marjanovic submitted to the 21st Amendment. Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48447	Dear Ministers, as we have done for some other members and other amendments, I also think that you should respect our efforts and the efforts we have made for this amendment and come together to a solution. It seems to me that, in the same direction and in the same sense, that amendment has been directed. So article 21 has two parts. In the first part, so in Section 2, we thought that the level of insurance in athletes, in the event of a fatal outcome, of 10,000 illogically small compared to the case of permanent loss of general working capacity. We have proposed in this amendment that this sum be evened, because we think it makes sense. The more significant part of this amendment is Article 5, which is currently related to the obligation of sports organisations to negotiate insurance. Here in Section 5 you say that the national border sports alliance can establish a commitment, etc. for sports organisations under their jurisdiction in the conclusion of insurance. We suggested that these terms be replaced, "can be determined", to say "confirmed". So, the competent union determines the procedures and procedures of its jurisdiction over insurance. If we took advantage of this amendment, we would come to the conclusion that this is a legal obligation which is precisely what your answer was to the amendment of the gentleman, the fellow who spoke of it. So we think that if we were to go in this direction, we'd get to the point where we control the way of insurance, we'd get to the point where both athletes and organizations have one joint offer, not every single person is left to themselves, and that it amounts to both the premium and the way insurance is something that's being arranged. In the event that the alliances commit to establish these premiums in this way, we will reach a system that will be controlled, which will be measurable and that will ensure that athletes and sports organisations have the opportunity to be protected, namely not to be left to various abuses in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48448	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The word has a minister. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48449	First, I want to thank Mr Marinkovic for identifying athletes as a national treasure and thank you for that. And as for your specific amendment, the bill monitors mandatory insurance practice for damage to the consequences of an accident, i.e. loss of general working capacity in other areas. We've accepted that clubs have to carry out insurance through alliances, because it's a matter of mutual relationship between club and alliance. I'm going to give you an example that both alliances and clubs as sponsors have insurance companies, and that's why we don't want to limit or reduce the possibility of a club or alliance to get fresh capital, to the sponsor. We believe that such a norm would only violate that possibility and limit it in one area, that the alliance and the club could reach the sponsors. For this reason alone, we have not accepted the amendment, because we believe that, and in practice, our biggest alliances also have the largest sponsorship contracts with insurance companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48450	Thank you, Mr. Minister. National MPs of the Boris Tadic parliamentary group have tabled a joint amendment suggesting that a new member of 23a be added after article 23a. Does anyone want a word? National MP Branka Karavidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48451	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Namely, on the risks of dealing with relevant sports, we seem to need greater information from the participants in the sport. We also believe that it is important for the usual dangers and risks in sports, even in very popular and represented sports, it is not always known what risks are involved in dealing with them, whether for individuals with certain minor or larger health disorders or shortcomings. Unintelligence exists especially in cases of represented sports, and it is particularly present with regard to those sports that are quite new to us, such as. American football, where the usual risks are unknown. In the same way that very often the sites of alliances and clubs highlight the benefits of concrete sports, we believe it is necessary to specify both the risks and the dangers of such sport in general, and for certain categories of faces. For these reasons, I propose an amendment which obliges those institutions to publicly publish the usual risks that for a particular category of person, i.e. minors and business incompetent persons, and personally in written form hand over to parents, or elders, notices, and we also suggest that non-compliance with these provisions withdraws the liability of compensation for damages. In addition, we believe that the risk data and the usual dangers should be part of the contract with professional and amateur athletes. There are known cases in modern sports where just professional athletes were not familiar with the negative effects of the sport they are dealing with, this is especially important from the point of view of the type of volume and quality of health care, i.e. prevention and recreation that will be provided to them. Namely, our member, who we add, says that the competent national border sports alliance and sports organisation are obliged to make public, on his internet presentation, the publication of a notice on all the usual dangers and risks of dealing with certain sports activities, as well as the measures taken to prevent them from performing. In Article 2, we foresee, the notice referred to in Article 1, the sports organisation must deliver in writing to the parent, i.e. the guardian of the child, or persons who do not have full business capacity, and before the start of that sport activity. In paragraph 3, we say, data on the usual dangers and risks of dealing with certain sports activities are: the mandatory element of the contract on the work of a professional athlete and the contract on the practice of sportsman amateurs. Finally, in paragraph 4, we say that the competent national border sports association, i.e. the sports organisation, is also responsible for the damage resulting from the usual hazards and risks of dealing with certain sports activities, unless they comply with the positions of the 1 to 3th of this article. I think this is the paper. You have also stated in your explanation that the comparative practice is not a known solution given in the amendment proposal, and that by accepting the proposed solution, it could be called into question the fulfilment of the national sport alliance's obligations to the relevant international sports alliance, etc. I don't think we should run from the papers, I think we should have heard about accepting this amendment, and I think anyone who starts to engage in sports, especially underage persons, their parents, should be fully informed of the potential risks that that sport brings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48452	The word is made by Minister Udovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48453	We recognize the very good intentions of your amendment. I must tell you, I personally agree with that. In part, you gave the answer. What has dragged us away from accepting the amendments is that with this catalog and the rules to be brought in, that sports organisations and alliances would be in collegiate with international sport rules. As you pointed out, there is no such catalogue anywhere and the question is whether we can predict in that catalogue all the risks that can occur on the ground and whether abuse in practice would take off responsibility and transfer responsibility to the athlete. For the protection of the athlete himself, to tell you the truth, we gave up accepting the amendments, because by doing so the club and the alliance, the organization would say – well, yes, we have prescribed, notified, then we are not responsible if it is a slippery floor. In my case, and in my sport, for example. There's a tile missing, so it's sharp, a child can cut himself, not to mention, if we can predict those unorthodox cases that happen one in a million. We've always been guided by this principle to protect the maximum athlete, not to take responsibility from any of the players in the sport. A athlete must also have a responsibility, but let's protect that system of sports. Just because we couldn't find any such catalog or one of those records, which would contain everything inside and what would be envisaged, we haven't decided to accept, and we're always prone to innovation that will improve the system of sports. In this particular case, we believe that this is not possible and whoever needs to determine who the court is assessing, because the court determines these risks. So we leave it to those who are in charge of it, and we don't want some provisions to take responsibility off the organization or someone in the sports system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48454	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48455	Just one sentence. Perhaps we didn't understand each other, the essence of our amendment is that parents, children, parents, inform themselves of the risks of sports. I don't mean the broken tiles, I don't mean the slippery floor, but I think the kind of sport and the health consequences of dealing with that sport. That's the essence of our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48456	Thank you. The 25th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Here's a word for Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48457	Dear ladies and gentlemen, one great man, Poincara, said a hundred years ago that truth is more than any use. And it occurred to me this sentence while I was reading the reasons for Mr and Mrs from the Ministry for not accepting our amendment to Article 25. Here, I think, the obvious truth is that this explanation for not accepting the amendment is very well written. Here we have a call to certain regulations, conventions, standards in five pages of text. Very precisely explained why the existing proposed solution should remain. Here I want, for the sake of truth, to say that I appreciate every time every man who comes as a guest to the National Assembly who offers such a fundamental explanation, which shows one sort of seriousness in approach and, above all, respect for the dignity of the National Assembly, and then all of us MPs. This is the case. This Poincare thought, right to tell you, came to mind, and then when we meet our political inexplicables, it's our turn to protect and defend the truth, I think, first of all, in our National Assembly. Unlike some ministers who, and when they don't accept our amendments most often, Minister Udovic, say -- we think that our proposal is more comprehensive, that it's more meaningful, without any arguments or anything like that, and that's not the case here and because this is the obvious truth, I wanted to say that I respect this argument for not accepting the amendments and that I think it's a bigger thing to be guided by the truth here than it was by one or more accepted amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48458	I thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: It is good Giric. It's good. ♪ Really love... ♪ I thank you, the word has a national MP, Sonja Vlahovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48459	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm reporting for an amendment that, of course, the government has not accepted. The government has given a broad explanation, which the fellow, the applicant himself, commended. Reading this amendment, which was submitted by the applicant of the amendment, I noticed a major technical error. It's just surprising for a self-proclaimed king of the submitted and accepted amendments. A colleague has submitted an amendment in Article 25 to change heading 2, and after Article 2 to add a new item 3. Interestingly, the current position of 3, 4 and 5 is only a four-seat member, not a five. Simply surprising, but also the fellow who submits the most amendments that are in line with the spelling and grammar of the Serbian language was wrong. Yeah, it's possible. A colleague throws – is it possible, but it is possible. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48460	Thank you. Unfortunately, you have no right, Mr. Pavicevic. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Well, I mean. Mr. Pavicevic, you have no right. You'll use it on some next amendment, but Mr. Pavicevic, when the lady makes some remarks and she doesn't, that's right. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: That is what I mean. I thank you. National MPs Natasa Vučković, Dejan Nikolic, Jovan Markovic, Vesna Martinović, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, master of Aleksandra Jerkov, Dragan Sutanovac and Vesna Marjanovic together submitted the 25th amendment. The word has been made by the National Ambassador, Master Jovan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48461	Dear Ministers, and in principle debate, and we wanted to point out that we have a problem with the three key things that are proposed in the draft of this law. One is related to funding, the other is related to the role of local administrations, i.e. local sports alliances, and the third is related to personnel, i.e. the definition and nomenclature of occupations and procedures as called, the control of staff in sport, etc. I think that these Articles 25, 26, 27 and 28 are key in that the amendments we have proposed in this regard should be respected, i.e. at least consider them or apply them in some other step. As regards Article 25, paragraph 2, which says – sports experts are persons who have adequate higher or higher education in the field of sports, or physical culture or are trained, in accordance with. You then say, or you refer to Article 26(2), and then you explain that the minister will establish the nomenclature of sports professions and callings and typical jobs for the determination of sports professions and calling and conditions regarding education, i.e. professional skills and professional experience to acquire calling. We agree that there must be someone who will do these jobs and, in our opinion, it would logically be that you are in Section 2 below in Article 26. you said that it would be based on recommendations or instructions or regulations of national sports alliances or border sports alliances, it might make sense somewhere, but in this formulation as it is proposed I don't think it should stay, or that our formulation that will accept this position in part 2, but which will appeal to the law is far better. Why do we say that? You have probably felt that in many public debates that you participated in, especially in Nis, in a seven-hour debate, and in Novi Sad, in a debate that lasted nine hours, there were a huge number of people, and above all there were representatives of the Faculty of Physical Culture, professors and many other people who pointed out that this issue had to be regulated. The Serbian Association of Teachers of Physical Education and Sports has sent several amendments. Among other things, they specifically asked to discuss this article and this amendment. He was somewhat in line with our proposal, but they said Article 25 of Article 2 so defined in the further text gives the right to trained children to work with, equates educational staff with qualified, violating all the laws in the field of education. Their suggestion, also in my opinion, is completely justified and has a basis in that experience that we had in the past several years, when society tried in some way to respect all those athletes who had certain skills and experiences and got the opportunity to work with children, but those opportunities that they had were completely contrary to the interests of children. Examples of abuses that we have had in practice over many years ago, over decades ago, have just suggested that the official institutions of this country, and in particular higher education institutions must play a particularly important or decisive and decisive role in who will deal with children, who will work with children, which methods, in what way and what must remain the first and basic principle. We are fully aware that you must have a wider approach and that this term "trained personnel, experts, trainers" etc., which work with children must be in some way respected, because it is reality, it is life, but must not be at the expense of what is a profession, what is an experience in the profession, what is knowledge in the profession. Therefore, we think it is very important that in any action, in this case in the application of this law, it is necessary to take care of it. If we introduce the principle that everyone can work with children, if we introduce a principle, especially in small areas, to use what someone used to be a athlete, so now they'll have no idea what kind of opportunity to take money from the budget of the bar, to have their own clubs, to charge membership fees as they will, then we'll have these effects that exist, which is that in 15, 16 years, after all the current processes, the preparations that children are going through, you get into a situation where one or two kids from that age stay physically healthy and able to continue to play sports. Examples we have, if we did an analysis of the research we've had in all the sports, and this is especially about top-notch sports, you'll see that very few children who have taken up heavy training in 15, 16 years of age are able to seriously deal with sports. It's about that width in the approach, we support it, but in any case, the waist has to remain dominant and they have to say their last word in this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48462	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The word has a minister. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48463	I would like to thank you for the kind words that Professor Pavicevic put forward on this subject. I must point out that in all the public debates, the conversation with the profession was the most important and that this law was passed in collaboration with the profession. Finally, after several meetings and talks and respecting the opinion of the profession, we came to their positive opinion and opinions that fully support the bill. So, on this bill, we have the opinion of all the Deans of the Faculty of Physical Education in the Republic of Serbia. Since you mentioned the nomenclature, the nomenclature is also brought into co-operation with the colleges for sport and they give an opinion and actively participate when it comes to the nomenclature of sports. You mentioned equality and inequality between trained sports experts and those with higher and higher professional equipment, when using the term "sports expert", it covers much more than just coaches. When we talk about sports experts, people experience that they're coaches, but we have to consider that they're not just coaches, that they're delegates, that they're judges, sports journalists. There are no cathedrals, there are no studies dealing with their perfection, i.e. with the profession, the schooling. How do we say or recognize delegates or judges, except that they're trained? On the other hand, when we talk about the possibility of our teachers being coaches and being able to work, especially with children, we today and today have 132 alliances and 132 branches of sport. For only 20 branches of sport, study programs are implemented. This means that if we were to prescribe or accept your amendment, the automatic sport stops and we're out of coaches. Because at this point, we don't have 132 study programs, so on the 132 study programs to add 132 more cathedrals that deal exclusively with children, and we only have 20. It's an exact fact on today. It's missing right now and we agree when there are 12,000 organizations, so how many categories in each organization, so how many children? It's a large number of athletes at the moment who are in the system of sports. We can't cover them at this point all together, and that's why we need to recognize and spread, because primarily a sports expert is not a coach. Then, considering and that only coaches with high professional equipment can work with our youngest, we raise the criteria in relation to international sports rules, where they lower the criteria. We are just out of responsibility to the children, according to the youngest, raising the criteria and saying that those who are the most trained, who are the most educated, who have spent the most hours training, can only work with children. For example, let's take FIFU as a world football organization. Those with at least hours of training, with at least hours of working with children who have passed classes, can work with children. We are totally turning and saying – no, only one who is the most trained, who is the most educated and who has spent the most hours of training in Serbia can work with children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48464	I thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48465	Minister, the very statement that you have made to me in some way was a motive to think about this amendment and how you actually use all the potentials that exist in higher education institutions and systems in Serbia, to focus precisely in this direction and to that end, that all those people who are going to be trained, here, I use that term that you used, in the next period can be adequately dealt with by children and that we do not have all these side effects or adverse phenomena that occur from experience that we have from the previous years. So if we have a basis which, in my opinion, is also bad, that out of the 132 sports branches, only 20 sports branches are in such a professional and comprehensive way worth the attention, so we can say that we have control here, then that's exactly why we focus all these potentials in that direction to not be so, or to increase that number in terms of coverage, as far as the impact of the profession is concerned, etc. to sports branches. I think that is precisely why, if we are now saying that it may be wrong to propose in Article 26 to delete Article 2, it was also necessary for us to be satisfied that, below that attitude, the nomenclature, regulations, regulations, rules, etc. to be prescribed by the Minister or the Ministry on the basis of the position and opinion of the profession, national border sports alliances, local alliances, etc. That's what's missing here. In my opinion, the Ministry, I don't think it's going to be your ministry or anyone in two, three or five years, is going to be doing it based on their assessment, maybe on a flat-rate basis, or they're going to accept the state that exists, which is also wrong. If we put that somewhere in this position of Article 2, Article 26, then that would make sense, to me, it would have been effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48466	Thank you. The word has a minister, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48467	Nomenclature is not a decision, it has already been a rule and it has existed since 1996. What I want to point out is that we're just working together with the professors of the Sports Faculty. Right with them, and we consider them the biggest partners, as well as the profession. We also support that the waist must be more represented in sports. We're just trying to get all the information we need from them when it comes to sports, because I expect them to say for the youngest, for children what kind of ball they should use, how they kick on the goal, in the basket, whether the height of the basket is adequate for a child in development, whether to count the result in younger categories and whether to keep records of goals and results achieved. We want to get all that information and support from the profession. In close cooperation and we are with sports universities, because we consider them an integral part of the sport and from them and how we get all the most necessary information that serves to improve the system of sports. We bring the nomenclature itself into sport in cooperation with them, and yet with the opinion of all other ministries that are responsible.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48468	Thank you, Mr. Minister. National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Dejan Nikolic, Jovan Markovic, Vesna Martinović, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Dragan Sutanovac and Vesna Marjanovic submitted to the 26th amendment. Mr. Markovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48469	Dear Minister, Article 26 of Section 2, which we have proposed to delete, is precisely about this discussion that we are having. I'm really sorry that perhaps even the representatives of the university and the professional public, the sports public came to this conclusion. I think that was exactly the reason more to point out what you just said in this attitude 2. If your wish is sincere, and I think it is, then completely, in my opinion, it was natural and normal for it to be defined in a legal framework in some way and to be defined through the obligations of everyone, so in this case both the colleges and the border alliances, in some way the amendments to the 1996 nomenclature and the regulations that are related to all the sports branches that we were just talking about. Therefore, our amendment was aimed at either returning to the framework of the law and calling for the legal obligation of everyone to participate in this process, and the Ministry to give consent to these procedures, or to you, through this proposal that we just talked about, add this to what we talked about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48470	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48471	I have to mention once again, we've sat down with the professors several times and we've written their positive opinion completely, because it's going to be further developed by the rulebook. I think it is very important to point out that this law has come across the general consensus of all and that we have all the positive opinions of everyone in the system of sports, all those directly or indirectly involved, including the sport professor. I repeat again, we would not be able to discuss this if we did not have their full support and that the deans of all sports colleges in the Republic of Serbia did not sign on this written consent.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48472	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The 27th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS Group. Do you want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr Jovan Markovic. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48473	Dear Ministers, in Article 27, we suggested that in the first position, when it comes to obligations, i.e. professional work in sport and what are all competences and obligations, in any case, at the end of that position when it comes to sports facilities and preventing doping in sport, care for the health condition of athletes, etc., add this term: "age and insurance of athletes" because I think it is a very important part of this law and conversation on the insurance of participants in sport. Then, attitude 4 again concerns that attitude of professional people in sports and what people in the Serbian Federation of Physical Culture and Sports Professors said this was in fact the biggest problem of this law. According to them, Article 27(4) is the biggest problem in the whole of the law. It allows individuals without adequate education to do educational work, which is at least unacceptable. So, this is the attitude of those people who also participated in the public debate, and for this reason I suggested that in the fourth position, which says: “The professional-experienced work with children can only be performed by sports professionals who have a suitable or higher education in the field of physical education and sports” or who, in addition to basic vocational training, have been particularly experienced professional work with children, in accordance with Article 26 of the Law. So instead of listing Article 26, which we were just talking about, let's just say again -- that they've been through training or that they've completed education according to the law. That's what we're proposing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48474	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48475	For the second part of your amendment, I think we've made that clear before, so I'm not repeating myself. As for the first part, we couldn't accept it because it's not considered a sports expert, it's more considered an expert in sports. Therefore, as expert work in sports, we were unable to accept the first part of the amendment, and the second part, I think we have made it clear by example that in Serbia, with 132 branches of sport, we have 20 study programmes that are being implemented. I think, again, that we're not taking time for everyone, we've made that clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48476	Thank you. The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48477	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the amendment that we, the People's MPs of the New Party to Article 27, have made regarding that amendment to Article 25, whose argument we have already commented on and in the context of which I have noticed one thing, that in my legislative action here in our National Assembly I have one terrible attention from a national MP, Mrs Vlahovic. It is to me, to tell you the right, a great pleasure – and when Mrs. Vlahovic has words of praise and when she has words of criticism. I have only one proposal for Mrs. Vlahovic, that they are also suggesting one thing for their colleagues, Markovic, Giric, Nikolic, who is not there now, Orlic, who is also suggesting that they do not wait there at the office of our amendment, these languages concerning the spelling and grammar of the Serbian language, so that they take away our amendments, as was the case in the Police Act, and then Minister Stefanovic accepts their amendments instead of ours.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48478	Please, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48479	Here, that's Mrs. Vlahovic's proposal, Your Honor. Don't interrupt me. You've interrupted me so many times, Mr. Vienna. I now have one commendation for Mrs. Vlahovic and I would like to announce that I am satisfied and that I have one proposal for her and you are interrupting me. Well, Mr. Becic, why are you doing this?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48480	I didn't interrupt you, Mr. Pavicevic, but I just asked you to return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48481	Well, you're ready. So it's an amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48482	I expected you to tell Mrs. Vlahovic that she was right, that you made a mistake, not to find various reasons why you would not accept that you were wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48483	Yes, I said so and said one word of praise to Mrs Vlahovic and announced that she also suggested to her colleagues from the same parliamentary group that they would not squat there at the office, waiting for our amendments, not to kidnap our amendments, but to accept our amendment because we are committed to doing our job. Thank you, Mrs. Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48484	And why are you now giving your colleagues the right to a replica, mentioning their names? Thank you. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: It seems that Mr Pavicevic loves the messengers who squat. Well, we see that he sees the messengers who squat. Is that okay? You're right, Mr. Granny. (Zoran Babic, from the place: Mr Pavicevic loves the messengers and the folk messengers who hear. That's what he just said. It's a mess more. You're right, Mr. Granny. I tried to stop Mr. Pavicevic because I realized he was going to make a mistake. He could only say in one sentence and thank Mrs. Vlahovic that she was right. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: the resignation, because he said that the messengers of the people were heard. Is there anything else you want me to add? We see that Mr. Pavicevic loves the people's emissaries, Mrs. Vlahovic and the others. How much longer? How much longer, Mr. Vienna? Shame! Shame! Mr. Granny, I find it difficult to answer anything to your remark, which is in place. (Zoran Babic, from the scene: We want responsibility for this, to resign because he loves the messages he hears. Mr. Granny, I find it difficult to answer, I repeat, on your objection, which is in place. I find it difficult that I couldn't stop Mr. Pavicevic from saying something like that, although I tried. But here, according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Pavicevic came forward and I hope he has an adequate explanation for what he said. Here you go. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Is the Rules of Procedure at what he was saying? ) He pointed to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48485	Dear ladies and gentlemen, two members of the Rules of Procedure of our National Assembly, Member 107, and member 108, have been injured. Article 108, concerning the order of the National Assembly session, which had just been disrupted by MP Zoran Babic, and you did not respond, Mr. Becic. Mr. Babic threw, he didn't answer a word on any basis, but he threw it out of place, and you let him do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48486	Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48487	Second ground, for the word "shut," please, Mr. Becic...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48488	Mr Pavicevic, I expected that you would now apologize to the MPs and to the people for what you said, and you are commenting on why Mr Babic reacted to his people's MPs. It's a shame, Mr. Pavicevic. Mr. Zivkovic, don't throw it away. Here you go, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48489	That's what it was about, article 108. Article 107, the question has been asked – what does the word "shut" mean? Well, I'm here every day using the Serbian Dictionary, gentlemen. What does the Serbian Language Dictionary say in the Serbian Mother's edition, this is the latest edition? It says: “Singing” —“ spending time, staying constantly, staying in one place, ” e.g. At the office, where our amendments are being hijacked. We have a dictionary here. Based on the Serbian language dictionary...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48490	Mr Pavicevic, you know what that proverb says in the Serbian people – who is trying to justify themselves, even worse... I'm not going to use the way it's pronounced. Mr. Pavicevic, you asked the minister for responsibility when he apologized for what he said to a journalist. You do not even want to apologize, but you explain that you were right to insult the MPs in the National Assembly in this way. You can fantasize as much as you like with the Serbian Dictionary, but you insulted the MPs and MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia when you said they were squatting in front of the office and waiting for you to come along. Please don't do this anymore and at least try to apologize for what you said. Thank you. There are a lot of registered MPs after the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The first came from MP Marijan Risticevic. Here you go, Mr. Ristichevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48491	I thank you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for advertising Articles 107, 108 and 109, because I consider this offence, since it is not about me, I have experienced a series of insults from one fellow MP, even threats, and I did not ask to be punished, but this time, Mr. Chairman, you have to punish, because of gender equality. You have to punish a fellow MP who used the term "speaks" to knock. I know of a minister who will be a former minister tomorrow, who, due to similar expressions and moral responsibility, is due to a joke that was quite unsavoury, which has been spoken in a far more serious tone, must be a former minister tomorrow. The expression squat, means to be bent, bent, bent knees. That is exactly what a fellow MP asked for, and so he addressed the MP. I think whether he apologized or not, you are obliged to give him some kind of punishment, in accordance with the members of 108 and 109, not because of me, not because of my colleague, but because of the reputation of Parliament, and to show that we are worthy of the attention of the citizens, who certainly now expect us to have this occurrence of punishment. There are people who are not growing, unfortunately now we have seen that there are people who are low in character. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48492	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. By hurting the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Markovic, a replica or a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Rules of Procedure, here you go. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48493	Member of the 103rd and also member of 107th Dignity, Mr. Chairman, and I am not answering because I am one of the directly mentioned SNS MPs, with the most terrible insult to be heard, as Mr. Pavicevic said, without knowing what he meant and in what capacity to be heard. What I cannot go beyond, and what I think the National Assembly can't possibly get past, is according to a terrible insult directed at a lady, a national MP, one of the third of the ladies who make up this House, Mrs. Vlahovic. It should be a shame for all of us sitting here today even though there should be an MP who has offended and directed it. I think that the National Assembly must not go over this, as Mr Risticevic said just before, tomorrow, one minister, in my deep confidence, one of the better ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, will resign because of one, perhaps recklessly spoken word and by accident, and this insult has been made a little earlier with intent and I don't think the National Assembly should go over this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48494	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. I believe that I did not violate the Rules of Procedure, I expected that the MP who spoke, in such a way that he insulted one MP and did not mention you, would be and accept that he had apologized and accepted that he had made a mistake, when he said that a national MP was squatting and waiting for him to come along, because it can only point to one thing. I am ashamed to chair this session today, where so is a national MP, who will stand up tomorrow and criticise the minister who has apologized and who will be resolved for the same recklessness of a lady. So I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the Assembly to plead? No, I don't. ) The word has a folk MP, Dr Ninoslav Giric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48495	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, I advertise Article 106. Rules of Procedure, that's the agenda. The previous speaker appeared on the agenda, on the occasion of this amendment, which was not accepted, and none of the letters were answered, nor did he say a single letter on the amendment. I would not comment, you have said enough about the words he has spoken, quite inappropriate for this home, but I ask you not to allow any talk, in such an ugly way to be expressed, to be held by the MPs of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48496	I thank you, Mr. Giric, but you are witnesses, during this entire session, calling on the MP who explained the amendment very rarely to speak of the amendment than more about the statistics of the accepted and unaccepted amendments, so believe me, I am now not sure that I can influence more an MP who can, who should be talking about the amendment he has submitted. Thank you. Do you want the Assembly to plead? No, I don't. ) The word has been delivered by the MP Mr Jovan Markovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48497	Dear Chairman, I point to the violation of Rule 108's first position, where it is said that the session of the National Assembly is being held by the old National Assembly president. My basic remark in this attitude refers to the fact that you did not respond when Mr Babić was two minutes and perhaps more shouting, shouting, not applying for a word, mentioning various names, bringing me into some context completely unnecessary and I don't know why. Then you created an atmosphere here that is completely inappropriate for today's debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48498	Mr. Markovic, you cannot use a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I would expect again as a colleague that you are now protecting your colleague, not to justify what happened in the Great Hall of the National Assembly. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? (Jovan Markovic, from the place: Can I finish? No, thank you. I ask you, do you want to make a statement to the Assembly? Yes or no. (Jovan Markovic, from the post: Let me finish. ) Yes, the Assembly will declare itself in the voting day. I think you should be, why didn't you try to protect your colleague, but you're still criticizing an MP who wanted to protect his colleague from his parliamentary group. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: that's exactly what I want to do. Shame on Mr. Markovic. The word has a folk MP, Dr Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48499	Dear Mr. Vice President, I appeal to Articles 106, 107, 108 and 109. Let me say that the amendment promoter did not exactly give an explanation for the word - squat. I'll give you from the Serbian Dictionary in book number four, page 908, squat means being in a bent position, bending legs in knees and hips sitting and so on. However, nothing less means kneeling, which is why tomorrow one minister will be a former minister and allow that word to be said about the treatment of the Serbian language Dictionary. Get down on your knees means get down on your knees. So it's the same word, so to speak to the synonym of the same meaning. I think academic honesty should really resign here at the National Assembly today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48500	Thank you, Mr. Atlagic. There is a word, according to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Babic, and I would ask that we end our hours with injuries and return to the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48501	Thank you, Mr. Becic. I'm advertising a violation of Rules of Procedure on the 27th and 109th scandal marked our session of the National Assembly today. The scandal that one MP to his colleagues, his colleagues, says they're squatting, says they're in a tight spot. Brooke and a disgrace from one intellectual, from any man in our country to address any woman, any lady in this way. In the year that we really fight to keep every woman safe primarily because women are our jewels, our every family. Because our fellow MPs are also the jewel of this congregation. The scandal is when the MP, as Mr Pavicevic did, tells women to kneel. I'll always, Mr. Becic, for those who objected to me why I yelled and yelled, when I had to, protect women anywhere and anywhere. I will scream and yell and do much harder things when we need to protect ourselves from these verbal attacks, physical attacks, any attacks that women are exposed to, as they were just exposed to in Mr Pavic's speech. The least we can expect here, the least I could expect is for someone to bend their heads and say, "I'm sorry, to make an apology to all women in Serbia." No, we didn't welcome it, but we welcomed the attack on me why I noticed it and why I raised my voice and why I stepped into the protection of women, not just from my parliamentary group, but from all the women in this world and in our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48502	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48503	Tomorrow, Mr. Gasic, as he was exposed to attacks due to almost identical words, will be relieved of his duties in informal terms. Mr Pavicevic said that about the National Assembly speaker, at the sanctuary of Serbian democracy. How women in Serbia will now feel that in the presence of Mr Pavicevic everything must kneel. This is a scandal, Mr. Becic. This is a scandal, and I am asking the National Assembly to make a statement about it and to be fenced by such scandalous statements by Mr Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48504	I thank you, Mr. Granny. I feel and I will be very happy to put your request that the Rules of Procedure be broken, even if I invite the MPs to vote for it, because I believe that I violated the Rules of Procedure when I failed to prevent Mr Pavicevic from saying such a thing to one of the MPs. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Let the assembly be fenced from this. Let's just call it Pavicevic's opinion. ) Mr Babić, the least I expected, as you did, is for Mr Pavicevic, knowing Mr Pavicevic, to apologize for what he told MP Sonja Vlahovic. The word is made by MP Jovan Markovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48505	Your Honors Chairman, I'm calling on Article 108 again. Rules of Procedure. I want to take advantage of the opportunity, you just denied it to me, to say that I am really glad that you as a party, as MPs, as people learned great lessons from what happened, as you said, Minister Gasic, who accidentally stated what he said. Your show today that you're making about it... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48506	How are you not ashamed, Mr. Markovic? You just wanted me to give you my word. And instead of protecting MP Vlahovic, you're now saying it's a show. I think you should be ashamed, Mr. Markovic. The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48507	Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable ministers of Udovic, honored guests and guests from the ministry, the esteemed Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr Becic and the chairman of today's session, MP Zoran Zivkovic and I have submitted an amendment to Article 29...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48508	Mr. Pavicevic, I would ask you to take that smile off your face when you did not apologize in the first sentence to Mrs. Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48509	... this bill. The amendment says the following... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48510	National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Dejan Nikolic, Jovan Markovic, Vesna Martinović, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Dragan Sutanovac and Vesna Marjanovic together submitted the 29th amendment. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. Mr. Pavicevic, I'd better stop you, so I don't have to punish you according to the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Markovic, come in. (Jovan Markovic, from the post: The Rules of Procedure have before me. ) The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48511	The Honorable Chairman, you have injured Article 103. Your actions, when you took the previous fellow MP's word away because you think he has a smile on his face, as he spoke about the amendment in the context of the amendments to the proposed law. I don't think there's any need to turn this assembly into a theater. You and your colleagues who chair have read our thoughts over the past two years, what we intend to say... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48512	Mr. Djurisic, I will not allow you to use a violation of the Rules of Procedure for the President. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. In the day of the vote, the assembly will declare your objection. Mr. Markovic, do you want to talk about the agenda? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48513	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, I will find it very difficult to make a sudden transition from this play that has been to what is important to say about the amendments, but I will make an effort to make them notice the anxiety in one good direction. I think it's good for all of us. As for Article 29, the Honorable Minister, Section 5, I don't know why you didn't accept this part of the amendment. It is related to a language error or technical error, however, but here it is said - the procedure for granting authorisation for performing professional training activities is triggered by a requirement that you say is submitted by the ministry. I think it should stand – which is submitted to the ministry. Secondly, more importantly, that position 6 which states that the application for authorisation, based on the established fulfilment of the conditions, etc. The Ministry shall decide on a solution within two months of the date of submission of the applications. I thought so, and I also think of other laws, proposals, that there must be a time limit to the administration's response for various reasons, that this time must be effectively appropriate and it is more precise to say that in this case this deadline applies to 30 days. I think there's a lot of services, a lot of people in the ministry, that there's a big system that in some way, I agree that it's also disputable, but that has to be dedicated to solving issues of athletes, sports workers, problems in the profession, and that it's unacceptable for someone to file a request and wait two months for an answer, and then you have solutions, complaints, and then complaints and then it can go on indefinitely. If you would accept this amendment, then he would be primarily in the interest of the profession and the athlete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48514	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48515	We shortened the general term from three months to two months that was provided for in the Law on Adult Education. Although it's been scheduled for three months, precisely because of the complexity of the situation, the rate of response, we found some framework that's acceptable to two months. On the other hand, taking into account the complexity of this issue and giving the ministry the opportunity to take appropriate account of all possible situations and whatever the decision is taken. That's why we stayed up to a two-month decision compared to a 30-day cut, because we're afraid we won't be able to take an adequate look at it, just compared to those arguments that you've made, which is, not the commitment of the workers in the ministry, because I have to point out that they're committed, in relation to the number of people who deal with youth and sports sports sports.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48516	Thank you. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48517	Ladies and gentlemen, with a smile on my face, I declare that this is another accepted amendment to us, the People's MPs of the New Party, and I hope that I will be able to take advantage of my right as a member of the People's Parliament in two minutes to inform the Members of Parliament and the honourable Members of Parliament what has been accepted by this amendment. We have proposed that Article 31 be amended and item 1, and that it reads: "A sports expert can establish a working relationship with an organisation in the field of sport to conclude a labour contract, in accordance with the law or conclude a professional engagement contract". We were answered by the minister that this amendment was accepted for the reasons set out in the explanation of our amendment and I congratulate Minister Udovic for being brave and accepting four amendments, of the seven, that we submitted to this proposal for the sport law. To remind us once again, this from the New Party is setting us up at the support of the 9.7% electoral body, respected gentlemen, until the end of this call, to the end of all the sessions of the National Assembly, to inform Minister Udovici, tomorrow I will also have the Prime Minister of Mr. Vukic – we will have the starting position, honored gentlemen, of 10%, regardless of all these obstacles that you place here, regardless of the various imaginations about who said anything about the amendment, gentlemen. There is no doubt that I am not only the most active here, but also the most diligent, most dedicated, and the People's MP dedicated to the honesty and the battle of honor and in the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament and honored guests and guests of the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48518	Thank you. For the sake of the public of Serbia, I will read the amendment, which reads: "Article 31(1) changes and reads: "A sports expert can establish a working relationship with an organisation in the field of sport by concluding a labour contract, in accordance with the law or by concluding a contract on professional engagement." The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48519	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if the academic congratulator allows me to explain this amendment, I would like to commend the Government for accepting this kind of amendment and I believe that my fellow farmer's contribution was significant, that this and the other amendments be adopted. So, by moving from agriculture to Vračar, he has greatly entrenched, not only the National Assembly but also the promoters of this amendment, and I believe that thanks to us farmers, this percentage of the accepted amendments to the percentage spoken of by the fellow promoter. The amendments were accepted by the government. They weren't voted on. Speaking of 2,000 amendments, it should be said that only eight of his amendments were voted by the Proposer himself. The other 200 accepted amendments were accepted and voted. This means that we share this success with them, and I want to commend the government and the MPs who have the strength to make every good proposal that our same-mindeds propose, accept, stream, and make that correction into the law. Speaking of percentages, I must say that they are not the result of the vote either in this House, and this is not the result of citizens' confidence, and I believe that my colleague, once again, will call on him, on his own, along with my fellow farmer, to present the opinion of the voters, especially after this opinion he said about women here, and I believe that the percentage of the amendments accepted, i.e. the percentage they voted for and the percentage in the polling body of 0.4%, absolutely agrees. As far as agriculture and sports are concerned, I have to say that our country sport is going to be in crisis. In fact, 200 inherited places have disappeared. I don't know who's gonna make this deal there, in accordance with this article? A thousand are before the disappearance of 4,600 inherited places. The average age of the village population is 59 years. Me who deals with agriculture and my colleague, one of the promoters, a farmer, will certainly stand up for it, each from his position, each from his village – me from Novi Karlovac, he from the return pasture. We can't fix the situation, because big cities, no matter what they have low birth, by crossing farmers like my colleague, into town, we lose the population and with an average age of 59, we're out of sports. We're not even veterans anymore. We're not even into the Olympics for people with disabilities. So we're completely out of sports activities. I don't think it's a question of agriculture anymore, it's a matter of the country's security, but it's a question of sports, and that's also the conclusion of these contracts. Which coach, an expert, will come to the country to train us from 59 years of age? This country for 12 years has been a disgrace and shame, and thanks to that, they have helped our population to grow old, to land the village, and we are witnesses, at least we should know that the white plague is the most effective ethnic cleansing, that the most successful aggression – aggression with cradles. I must warn you, as a member of the majority people, that these territories in the country, especially in eastern and southern Serbia, when they are empty, will be inhabited by some other people, and that will not be us. This isn't a question of agriculture, this isn't just a question of sports, this is a question of survival of this country and it's about sports. I must remind you that many great athletes have come to Belgrade, I call them so-called. The wildlings, that they had come with their way of dealing with a certain kind of sport, that they had entrenched Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis and Kragujevac, that they had contributed to the results of our team, whether they were engaged in individual sports or collective games, that a lot of the rural population had given a lot of top athletes who started on the field to play games, balling, physical culture, etc. We're gonna lose that. We're going to lose as a state. We will lose as a sports nation, and I fear that it will be threatened by the sovereignty and survival of the Serbian state itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48520	Thank you. Dear Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, Section 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18 hours, for the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The 32nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48521	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment that we, the People's MPs of the New Party, have submitted to Article 32. The proposal for a law on sports is the last amendment that we have submitted and that I will explain here today and for that I have only one note. We have offered one explanation for accepting this amendment. The Ministry has come to answer why this amendment is not acceptable. I, like all other arguments, have, for example, explained the non-acceptance of amendments to Article 25 carefully read, from word to word, from letter to letter, and here I want to say that I respect that argument. I greatly appreciate it when any guest in our National Assembly, as well as a National MP or a National MP, in his work in the National Assembly or otherwise in his action shows a terrible seriousness in the approach and dedication to his work. I've read it in an explanation for not accepting this amendment and I respect that argument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48522	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. The word has a folk MP, Dr Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48523	Mr Vice-President, I am pleased that the amendment promoter has accepted an explanation for this Article 32, because there is no valid reason for the motion to accept this amendment, since it is also a professional control of the sport performed by the Department of Sports and Medicine, and that is one tradition. So there's no valid reason. But, Mr. Vice President, when it comes to the Department of Labour Medicine, allow me to announce one wonderful news about health care for all MPs of the position and opposition when it comes to sports, and for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which is that in 2015, the Republic of Serbia took 30 seats on the list of 35 countries in Europe. Thus, the health care of the Republic of Serbia lost sight of the last place on the list of 35 countries in 2012, the time of the party of the former regime.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48524	Mr. Atlagic, you must return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48525	I'm talking about health care and the Bureau...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48526	You must be exact about the amendment the promoter has made.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48527	... which means that healthcare will work even better in the coming year, since we have left even three EU members behind in health care and sports. It is also the success of this ministry, which also includes Mr. Udovicic, and the success of the entire government of the Republic of Serbia. I believe this will be welcomed by the MPs of the opposition, at least by applause, because it is about our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48528	Thank you, Mr. Atlagic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48529	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as someone who has never held power, and whom the party of the former regime and their palos send to political history, would as well be happy about the free Republic of Serbia, but, behold, I will be the domestic government in the next four years, this is what the Provincial Government has been saying for 16 years, with the intention of performing 20, so I am against any function, in terms of state and sport, and these, regardless of which they will not last long. So, I'm not a fan of it, no matter what I'm committed to the autonomy of Vojvodina, etc., but Vojvodina is an integral part of the Republic of Serbia, it's not outside Serbia, it's in Serbia, and so it will be. Perhaps some would like to, and often such regulations try to replace what counterpart Martinovic was talking about today, to drag through these proposals some even unconstitutional provisions and thus strengthen the province's authority, or to increase their powers. I don't think that's gonna make any sense, 'cause they're not gonna rule there. As an opponent of this amendment, I was told as an opponent, that it pains us how many parties of the former regime will win votes. It doesn't hurt us, it'll only hurt you. As a result, you will remain outside the congregation, not in the congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48530	Thank you. National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Dejan Nikolic, Jovan Markovic, Vesna Martinović, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Dragan Sutanovac and Vesna Marjanovic submitted to the amendment. Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48531	Dear Ministers, as well as any other amendments that we have submitted as well as the principled debate, we had the aim of making the proposed amendments to this bill make sense and to remove some irregularities. We understand the intention you had through defining the conditions of who couldn't be a member of the sports organization management, what you wanted. At this first point of the second position, it is said that they cannot be members of the Board of Sports Organisation founders, owners of shares or actions, MPs, liquidating managers, employees or members of a sports organisation and competing in the same level of competition. We've noticed that the problem here is if employees or members of a sports organization or other organizations are isolated from this part and we suggest that that part be deleted, first of all we're thinking about employees. If someone was in an association, at a sports club, in the second or third rank as a member of the board of directors, he had some credit, he had some contributions, he had some shifts in his performance at the club, and eventually he came to work in another sports organization on some other basis. Now I can give you a series of examples that happened, say, in Uzic, in an environment where a man who was on the board or was part of a football club or some other club, eventually became a member of a party, and then came to be employed in another club, in this case by political line, which is often the case, but there are other reasons. I think it's discrediting these people, if based on being employed in another club they can be eliminated from membership. So, in this case, I think we should also think about the fact that employees are exempt from this provision and that it's not a rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48532	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48533	We have long considered and considered your amendment, but what we cannot reconcile is that eradication would lead to a conflict of interest for those faces. First of all, considering the two organisations are in the same level of competition, which would lead to absolute inequality and system failure. What's main is that it's against international sport rules and everything that's been accepted right from the international framework. For that reason alone, we understand the need on the ground and the need especially in smaller environments, but opening such a solution would lead to a conflict of interest which would allow someone who is employed as a sports director in a club to work or go to work in the administration of another club that is in the same rank of competition. Just for that reason, so they don't break the system in the light of celery.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48534	Thank you. Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48535	Thank you for your explanation, but I think that you and I are both aware of the motives both on the one hand and on the other, which is why you have proposed these solutions, which is why I have proposed this amendment. Looking at your motives, I totally understand what you're up to. On the other hand, I've had this need all along to try to get some cases that can be damaged by applying these legal solutions, sort of eliminated. I felt, if it was already impossible for employees to be surrounded by this proposal, that at least in some way we could limit which ranks would not come under the influence of the law. So, I think it's completely pointless for people who do some work as board members or in some other way in clubs to get into a situation that because they're employed in someone else's right to lose one or another and that any such constraint option outside of the first and second league is bad.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48536	Thank you. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Ivan Karic and Mr Blaža Bradic together. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is Dr Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48537	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Mr. Ministers with Associates, fellow Members and fellow MPs, the Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic-SDS-ZZS-ZS has submitted this amendment solution and our great pleasure because we are one phenomenon that exists and which is a general character in our society, politicisation, and sports, recognized and amendments wanted to improve, so that athletes would be involved in sports and those who want to deal with politics. To our even greater satisfaction, the ministry and Mr. Minister have understood our desire and accepted our solution. I have to read it for the public. We asked for a new point 3 to be added in Article 33(2), which is to be added – a person who performs a public function, as well as a person who functions in the political party's body; and at the end of the sentence, at the end of the sentence, a sign is deleted and words are added – as well as employees in the sports book. A new position 3 is added after Article 2 – A sports organisation cannot employ a person who is employed in a sports bookie or owns or is a member of a sports bookie's body. This is a major civilization shift for our sport, which we have contributed directly as a political party and you as a minister, a socially responsible man who, thinking of his colleagues and fellow athletes, has made a great progress, to define by law which defines sports the terms of sport, their security, and to exclude those involved in politics from the management teams. We thank you and the pleasure is ours.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48538	Thank you. The word is a folk letter from Adrian Anastasov.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48539	Thank you, Chairman. I, too, would like to thank the Ministry of Youth and Sports for accepting this amendment, because this is why the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Youth and Sports have shown one maturity in managing and improving the system of development of sports in the Republic of Serbia. The Serbian Progressive Party has long made a decision within its authorities that our members are not members of the Board of Sports Organisations, and now, by accepting this amendment, we are indeed suggesting that those who are engaged in political functions, who have certain functions in their political organisation, that there is no place in sport. We want to depolitize sports and we want to improve the system of sports in every way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48540	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48541	We have a general consensus on this issue. We accepted this amendment because it further specified, sharpened and emphasized what we had predicted in Article 33 of the Sixth Act itself, and when it comes to persons performing public office. We agreed to abolish the agency's ability to give consent to such decisions, and we wanted to send a clear picture of the depoliticalization of sports. With a standard like this, we've been through a public debate and we've talked about this subject, and she's been seen through public debate as something that's about to introduce just depolitanization. Again, since we have a general consensus and thank you for that, we have accepted that amendment. As far as the bookies are concerned, we have taken the norms from international sports rules and as such we have prescribed them in the proposal for a law on sports, but we have also accepted to regulate these standards more precisely and to make it clear who can and who cannot work in the body of sports society and associations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48542	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48543	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, I thank both the Government and the amendments. I'll just take a minute. Who is the president of the basketball union of Serbia? How is it placed on that function? What did he do before he became? Let's remind ourselves of those tennis players. I was already talking about those sports tennis players and those unsportsmen. At one point, it was united, and the president of the Tennis Union was a politician, and the president of the Serbia basketball union was a politician. When the SNS happened, the party's president withdrew his people from sports organisations, or from the places where certain alliances, or sports alliances, were managed. I welcome the amendment and everything, but our citizens, too, have the right to know that the parties of the former regime were together and while they exercised power, were very happy to put their politicians at the helm of sports alliances, which is not the case with the current government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48544	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48545	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. The acceptance of this amendment did not surprise me, because accepting this amendment is actually a policy that the SNS has already implemented and we have been implementing for the past few years, which is the withdrawal of people who are involved in sports club politics, from sports alliances. I am one of the men who proudly accepted that decision from the president of the SNS, Mr. Alexander Vukic. Although I was elected president of the Alliance by one large majority of delegates at the Serbia Water polo Assembly, I was the first or among the first to accept such a decision by the SNS and I resigned as president of the Water polo Union of Serbia. Because the position of the SNS is that work in the governing bodies of sports alliances and sports clubs is primarily for people who have spent a good part of their working and living life in these alliances, in these sports, and I think they feel both alliances and clubs work. So, this acceptance of amendments by the government of Alexander Vukic, by the resolute minister of Mr. Vanja Udovic, who is a celebrated athlete, a celebrated water polo player, not only looks at water polo as his favorite sport, but also at all other branches and all other sports as his own, I think this is a good step towards depolitisation, complete depolitisation of sports, and that is one step towards a more responsible society. What the SNS did back then, and now that she's accepted this amendment, it's just one step in a row. One more thing we have done, and that is that we have banned, although that is a difficult word – to forbid, but we have made such a decision on the incompatibility of any function and that one man can perform only one function, unlike some previous time, the previous regime, when one man is visible in his political organization, in his political party was and had the opportunity to be all and in sport, and in public life, and in public enterprises, and in municipalities, and in cities, and in the governing bodies of these public enterprises, administrative and supervisory committees. Now the picture is different, one man, one chair, one salary, but also this to depolitise sports is just one good, big and important step towards building a decent and normal society, which is the wish of citizens of the Republic of Serbia and what is the wish of the parliamentary group and the entire SNS. Therefore, accepting this amendment did not surprise me, because it is part of the policy of this government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48546	I thank you, Mr. Granny. Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48547	Dear Ministers, as a man who has also worked and engaged in sports and who sees himself in the profession and the area, and also who has had enough, so to speak, to see how the state authorities function in all other areas, and also for sport, I agree with this opinion that it is necessary to depolite in sport. That depolitisation began, in my opinion, very successfully. In 2008/2009. The party I represent has launched this process in a very difficult period, at a very difficult time and of course it's hard to go through the night, that it can't go as we all might like and as we all expect. Also, I don't think there should be a slave to populism, and in any case, apriors should reject any good solutions. You have sports that are in conception and that if they don't have both political and economic and every other kind of support and help, I mean not only sports, but clubs, they can't survive. I don't think it's a good idea to eliminate some people who can bring in those clubs or sports at any cost now, because it's popular or because it's so imposed. The experience Mr. Babic had when he was running for President of Waterpolo Alliance with Mr. Sapic is a good experience, which should show that it is not good for a politician to run for such a responsible function with a man who has such a career behind him. However, it is also an experience that you have in basketball, where Mr. Gilas has produced tremendous results and is very responsible for everything that has been achieved in the past few years, I don't mean just sports work and economics, etc., means everything he has done to organise Serbia's basketball alliance in a good way and has conditioned that there are results behind him. Therefore, I do not need to go to extremes and think that those people who, as with Mr. Gilas in this case, have confirmed that they are able to do their job, to be able to produce results and who, in the end, have received the support of the professional public, or profession, basketball professions in this case, to run this business, should get support, regardless of whether they will have a political function at some point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48548	Thank you. Such a great expert, and it's off-limits. You've replaced Mr. Gilas, and now praise him as an expert. To stay out of the controversy, you're right. Here you go, Mr. Djurisic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48549	I support my colleague Markovic, and I will remind you, the chairman, of article 100. Rules of Procedure. The amendment was proposed by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic-SDS. We are pleased that the government has accepted, as is our policy contained in the amendment we have proposed. There were some things that have now been respected, which have been bad in the past, the submission of this amendment shows that we have learned something and I am not ashamed of it. What I'm saying is that there remains one indetermination in the principle that we have proposed, Article 33 to which the amendment has been adopted talks about the administrative bodies of sports organisations, clubs, associations, in Article 99, which speaks about the administrative bodies of the alliance, where we have given the amendment of similar content not accepted. The explanation calls for Article 98, which again refers to things that regulate the provisions of creation that speak of the work of the Association of Sports. After all, if this law is passed, the question arises whether this provision, here I am talking about the participation of officials who are in public functions in the state and who are members of the political parties' bodies, will be able to, after the adoption of this law, if our amendment and Article 99 are not adopted, will the alliances be able to be public officials and officials of political parties, because then this discussion that we have conducted in some segments is not very meaningful? So we're going to have a situation that we can do in alliances without being in clubs. We have proposed to our amendments that politicians cannot be in the administrative authorities or clubs, but not in the alliance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48550	Thank you, Mr. Gursich. The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, according to the amendment. Is it an amendment or a replica? You also have the right to a replica after Mr. Markovic mentioned you. Here you go, Mr. Grandmother, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48551	Replica, Mr. Becic. I would correct Mr. Markovic, I was not a candidate, I am legally and legitimately elected president of the Water polo Union of Serbia by the decision of the vast majority of delegates at the election assembly of the Water polo alliance. The other candidate, I don't want to say the opponent, we weren't opponents because I believe that with the same love and barbecue, we can talk about this sport, is Mr. Sapic, who left really one indelible trail, not only in the Serbian water polo, but also in the world contexts, he is one big name. That's why I can't talk about Mr. Sapic as an opponent, but as another candidate. The delegates decided and supported me at the moment. It's bad when there are double standards, it's bad when we only praise ourselves and ourselves, and when someone on the other hand gets most of the Water polo Union Assembly or any other alliance, it's bad. I think the best thing that's happened, which is the decision of the SNS and the president of Mr. Alexander Vukic, to depolitize sports, and not to be forced into such a thing by law, but by morality and determination to build a decent and normal society, the SNS has done something like that. I think it's something like that in public, not because of any pulsism, but because it's so normal, we'd retire. I would hate to discuss the effect of Mr. Gilas in the basketball alliance or Mr. Jeremic in the Tennis Union right now. I believe they worked with the best wishes, with the best will...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48552	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48553	... and that the effect of this work, both mine and theirs, and other people, is to be seen. One more sentence, excuse me, Mr. Becic. What my opinion in the future and clubs and alliances need to lead people like Mr. Aleksandar Boric, who, with such knowledge and willlessness, without politics, is run by the volleyball alliance of Serbia and is visible in both European and world frameworks, where he became a functioner of both the European and world volleyball federations.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48554	Thank you, Mr. Babic, but these 40 seconds will still be denied by the time of the parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48555	Mr. Babic, I was just in my address, and I wanted to point out that example. I believe that any of us here in the O.R., here I am to go from myself, that it would be extremely rude to run for, say, the President of the Basketball Union, and on the other hand, that you have, say, Djordjevic or Paspalja or Divac, or I don't know who, as in this case, when Shapic was in that contest for the President of the Waterpolo Alliance, it can't be compared. I think everyone in this room shares my opinion, and in that case, a man should withdraw and your experience from that competition is very important for all other political actors on this political scene. Maybe we've just been through this competition and this political bidding has lost a man who might make a much bigger contribution to that place than you did. On the other hand, Mr. Chairman, when I was talking about Mr. Gilas and his merits for basketball and everything he's done...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48556	Mr. Markovic, you didn't get the right to a replica, you got to talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48557	You have entered the controversy with me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48558	I did not enter the controversy, because then I would say that Mr. Babic beat Mr. Sapic convincingly, I would also say that if he is a top athlete he does not have to be a top sports worker, that they were both politicians. I could say all that but I didn't say, so please either talk about the amendment or finish the presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48559	Just to finish, I made my point, and I think that attitude was legitimate.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48560	I respect it, go ahead, finish it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48561	You entered the controversy with me and said something that wasn't true.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48562	It's not worth it, Mr. Markovic. I can't let you replicate when you've reported on the amendment you submitted. Also, time's up, so I have to give the word to the minister. (Jovan Markovic, from the post: What time has passed for the amendment? It's been two minutes. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48563	I just want to respond to Mr. Djurisic in relation to what he stated, although he is a later member. We should be integrally observing the law, and for technical reasons, we have not accepted your amendment. We have referred to Article 98(3), as it is also essential for members of the alliance bodies. So, depolitisation applies to both members of the club's authorities and members of the Alliance's bodies, and we agree with you absolutely, and the amendment has been rejected for a purely technical reason, because there is no reference later and no movement of views in relation to the position you have put in place, i.e. I'm sorry, and I'm sorry. Only for that reason, and I absolutely agree with you and I refer, I repeat, to both members of the authorities in clubs and alliances.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48564	I thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Babico, have you called again? Please, according to the amendment, MP Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48565	Some contradictions have arisen, for on the one hand, a colleague found that it was good for some associations and some emerging sports to involve people from the world of politics to make these sports and these alliances visible and to get support. Then he says on the other hand, well, not if someone from the SNS is involved in it, but then it's not good. You just have to have the same arches for everyone, whether they belong or not. Our definition is clear, complete depoliticalization of sports, and that's what we showed on the case. But, as long as you're looking for these top-notch results, or if you were looking for these top-notch results from me, I wish you'd said then that Mr. Vuk Jeremic won the Roland Garros, and that Mr. Gilas played the finals in basketball, I don't know what year. No, but don't let me defend those people, because I think they put their energy, desire, knowledge, love, after all, and they showed some results. On the other hand, there are people who have not achieved some excessively visible results in sports, but after completing an active sports career have been extremely good managers, extremely good trainers, extremely good presidents of the alliance and have produced top-notch results. Miljan Miljanic, in my knowledge, was an average football player, but everything he did as a coach, what he did as president of the FS of Yugoslavia, is supreme. Someone's done everything many better players do than he do I don't think they could do. Pep Guardilla, he played in Barcelona, he wasn't too exposed to the player, but the results he shows as coach are top-notch. What about Murinja? Never a man, I don't think he ever played football, but he won everything he could in football to win. So, these principles that you're trying to introduce and put on a small door that everything that comes from another side, politically on the other side, is unnecessary, that it's wrong, that it's not good. We're talking about one thing here, and it's a depolitical sport. Depolitisation of sports that the SNS and without this law and without this amendment, adopted, showed and applied. And not only me, but many of my colleagues and colleagues who, at the moment we made the party decision, we made such a clean face, clean hands, raised, raised heads, not squatting, as Mr. Pavicevic said just before, very scandalously, but with dignity, we resigned and I think it is one of the good things, in a series of good things that she did or did to the SNS, and for that I am proud.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48566	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Mr. Markovic, do you want the word after the amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48567	I think it's legitimate that I have expressed my position here which is quite different from that populist attitude that you have. I fully support and understand the desire to depolitize in sport, but I want to tell you that it is pointless if some people, who are experiencing circumstances, such as in this case Dragan Gilas, who took over the basketball alliance six, seven years ago, who was in the downward path, who had major financial problems, human problems, managed to integrate people, integrate ideas and energy, and to produce huge results both in male and female selection. What was done in six, seven years ago should be an example of not going black and white. Secondly, let me tell you, Mr. Babice, a huge number of SNS people... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48568	Mr. Markovic, I tried not to interrupt you while you were praising your former president, but I ask you to know very well that by the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Markovic, you cannot address another MP, you cannot replicate if you have not obtained the right to reply, you cannot not discuss the amendment that is being discussed at this time, so I do not know in what way you think you can speak, to replicate Mr. Babiæ, if you do not have the right to do so. Please, at this point, you can only talk about an amendment to Mr. Djurisic's 33rd and a group of MPs from Boris Tadic's group, which was adopted by the government. You've already made the point that you think politicians shouldn't be in sports, why you're trying to do it this way. Here you go. Do you want to follow the amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48569	This attitude that is somewhat different from what the majority's attitude refers to exactly the part that I think is important to this law, which is the functioning of local alliances, local administrations. You have the representation of an idea in parliament or in the public that you do not need to mix functions, political functions and sports functions, but you do not do it at local level. Tens and hundreds of examples are that your officials in local administrations at the same time are club presidents, directors of some clubs, presidents of the alliances, etc. The directors of the company are at the same time the president of the alliance. I want to tell you that in the sea of these cases there are examples that may need to be detained. So, those people who did their job well, those people who need to help at a given time. At the local level, we all have this big problem together, that the basic and first objective of this law, that is to increase and embrace citizens for sports, cannot be applied unless there is any kind of support. In that sense, I mean also political. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48570	Thank you. Zoran Babic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48571	In all these replicas, Madam Presidents and announcements today, I have talked in affirmative and positive light about the effect of people who are in alliances and basketball and Mr. Jeremic in the tennis alliance, and there is no need for anyone to appear and defend themselves, because I have spoken very affirmatively with the policy removed and with political differences, because I think they are primarily, that they are defined by love for that sport and the energy they have put into all of this. I wish we weren't talking about people who don't sit here with us and who can't answer us. But what I will remind all the MPs and MPs here, I see that someone is having a lot of fun through this discussion, but I will remind you of the words of Dragan Gilas, who, not once and for all, thanked the Ministry of Sport and Youth of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Alexander Vukic for the support that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has given to the basketball alliance of Serbia and which will also be given in the organisation of this qualified tournament which I am sure and I will be one of the most noisy fans, that our basketball team in Belgrade, in a few weeks, I do not know exactly when it is scheduled for a tournament or several months to verify the visa for Rio, and that we are all here to cheer for basketball players and for the Alliance itself to cheer us in one of the medals.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48572	Thank you. You want to get the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48573	I am always for all those people who are responsible for something that has been accomplished as success to be mentioned. Of course, there should be synergy in the work of all the institutions of this state in any field.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48574	Is that a member of 33?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48575	But what I want to point out here is a problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48576	Ambassador, please communicate with me. MP, slowly communicate with me on Article 33. I think I'd be in the middle of seeing that it's about sports organizations and erasing, so I can get involved in the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48577	Can I go on?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48578	If it's about Article 33.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48579	Yes, it is. So the other big problem that comes from this concept that's being talked about here is that you have examples of local administrations, I once mentioned that there are directors, presidents of municipalities and so on involved in the work of clubs, but you have another problem that is related to this concept, which is that if you completely rule out policy from these events you come to that big empty space where you don't have support, where people are left to themselves, and the system doesn't exist. So, clubs operating in cities and municipalities, the interior of Serbia, fall out of ranks.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48580	MP, please speak of article 33 or we'll move on. It's my right to hold a session.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48581	With all due respect, Madam Chairman, you sat down three minutes ago, engage in the topic, give yourself the right to tell me if I'm talking about the amendment, and you've been completely out of debate all day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48582	Ambassador, you're sitting here for an untasteful comment, because I've been following the session all along, and I've got a number of other obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48583	But your attempt to make something like speed up the session now is... I'm talking about the subject. Why did you turn off my microphone?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48584	By wanting to run the session the way the session should look when the amendments are discussed. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: What are you angry about? For what? My right is because I am the chairman. It's my right. When you are chairman, I will allow you and Parliament will allow, of course, the kind of sensitivity you have to conduct the session, the way you conduct the session. Thank you, I'll give you the second amendment. There is no such thing as this amendment to the replica. (Jovan Marković, from the post: Rules of Procedure. Here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure. What member? (Jovan Markovic, from the place: Give me your word and I will tell you.) Please quote me immediately so I can follow. What member? No, I will, but quote me a member.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48585	Article 108(1)
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48586	Yeah, right. What does it say?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48587	So, I refer to the Rules of Procedure, Article 108 of the first position, which says that the session of the National Assembly is an old president of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48588	That's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48589	I want to point out that you have broken the Rules of Procedure harshly, that you have taken my word, even though I have spoken of the subject, that you have not allowed me to say what is essential, not only for this amendment but for the law at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48590	I'm not a member of Section 1 because you confirmed what I said.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48591	So, Madam Chairman, the concept offered here, which is related to...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48592	Abuse of the Rules of Procedure. Two minutes less for your group. Thank you. (Marco Jovanovic, from the place: For what? ) I thank you, read the Rules of Procedure further. The Rules of Procedure do not have only Article 108(1). Thank you. We'll move on to the second amendment anyway. Members of the 35th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia and Green Serbia. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48593	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, respected citizens, Article 35 speaks of a sports organisation being able to carry out sporting activities and sporting activities if it has, according to this law and the rules of sport, there is a taxing list: membership or contract of an engaged athlete, engaged sports experts, provided the right space, appropriate internal organisation and, point 5 says – secured safety of athletes and other participants in the performance of sports activities and activities. We add: "and completed appropriate insurance contracts resulting from an accident in accordance with this law". You have answered us, Mr. Minister, that this amendment is rejected by reason - the proposed amendment is rejected because the conclusion of an appropriate insurance contract is already part of the insurance of athletes and other participants' safety in carrying out sports activities and activities, as referred to in Article 35(5), paragraph 5. Proposal for a law, and the closer it will regulate the sublegal act referred to in Article 35(2). It's a bill of law. Item 2 says -- the minister is closer to regulating the conditions set out in Article 1. What I wanted to tell you is that unlike other ministers, this ministry of yours has been giving very meaningful, reasoned, to you, answers and explanations, but in this article you missed. I don't think what we're looking for is in Section 5. What we're looking for is to sign contracts with insurance companies and ensure athletes from possible injuries and accidents. The second thing is that from those opening remarks in the conversation in principle was that sports organisations and clubs had no money, so it's an additional cost. That's different, but then say it. So this answer is not adequately related to our amendment and I think that this amendment should, if you don't accept for everything, at least for a certain level...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48594	You've wasted group time. Thank you. The word has a minister. (Blagoje Bradić, from the place: You could at least let me finish the sentence. You've wasted group time, plus five, six seconds. (Blagoje Bradić, from the place: I apologize for five or six seconds. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48595	As you said, Article 35 item 1 point 5) – secured the safety of athletes and other participants in performing sports activities and activities. We believe that "security security" is broader and more comprehensive. That is why we decided in our review not to accept your amendment, because further precision might only lead to pleonasm, but we believe that "safe security", as a term, includes all those contracts and insurance. In the following rule, as you have read, we will elaborate more on what it includes and what it will be under the sea, and the amendment itself has been grammatically incorrect, so we couldn't classify it. But we primarily believe that what is proposed is more comprehensive when it comes to insurance.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48596	Thank you. National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Dejan Nikolic, Jovan Markovic, Vesna Martinović, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Dragan Sutanovac and Vesna Marjanovic submitted to the 36th amendment. The word is made by MP Jovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48597	Dear Ministers, Article 36 of Position 1 is one of the views that deeply referred to the subject of privatisation that we discussed in the principle debate. Given that Serbia's public expected, after all the unsavory events that we had at football games, which we had about selling players, about funding clubs, about who helped the Star, who Partizan, who is the political influence that parties in this funding, we expected in this law, or at least parallel to this law, to make another law that would solve this issue. We felt that every member of this law must in some way have that note of private investment, support investment in sports at all levels. When we thought about this Article, Article 36(1), we proposed that this term be excluded: "a non-profit organisation". So, you say – the sports association, in terms of this law, is a voluntary non-profit organization, based on freedom of association, etc. I think this term is too high and that determining this term is in some way limiting the ability to invest in sports. If we threw out, on our proposal, this term, then we would open up that possibility and we would compare it with some of the members that we had previously suggested to change (about membership, about investment, about getting these clubs that sell at some point their athletes), then we would come up with that maybe at all levels, about people having an interest, about at some point they would be able to profit from what they're doing and that it would make sense. I'm not saying it's supposed to be for all sports, for all clubs, for all examples, but I think you have to leave that possibility in law, in things, in cases where it's possible to leave that opportunity for people to find themselves there and have an interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48598	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48599	The point of sports isn't getting an individual. Everywhere in the world, even with us, citizens' associations are invaluable. Associations can be financed from both sponsorship, donations or other revenues, but the purpose of these revenues cannot be to gain profits, but only to invest in sport and in basic activity. The absolute bill recognises the possibility of establishing a sports business society, which as a form are adequate, as you have suggested in the amendment. I think that if we all work together towards professionalization, our goal is to have as much as possible, especially in professional sports, sports companies. That is why we have the view that we must not delete "non-profit" and "non-profit" because the association primarily aims to reinvest everything it gets in one form of investment in sport and it is non-profit everywhere in the world, including in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48600	Thank you. MP Zoran Antic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48601	Ladies and gentlemen, what does "non-profit" mean? Winning implies some business activity. Which is the essence of the Association Act, which we changed a few years ago, they can't deal with any economic activity. These were mostly different buffets, some gambling organisations, if you remember, up until a few years ago, and they were organized by sports clubs, different kinds of citizens' associations, that's something that's forbidden by the Association Act because it's literally economic activity. In this way, the gray economy is encouraged, illegal flows are encouraged, and it is perfectly normal that in the Law on Sports, it is the same kind of association, there is also this provision and that provision, this notion of inconceivable, applies first and foremost. Of course, each member can bring in his own resources in different ways, to help sports associations, but only the association cannot deal with any economic activity. That's the point. I think, of course, the government and the Ministry were absolutely right when she refused this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48602	Thank you. Members of the 45th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party. Just a moment, Ivan Karic, I apologize, I missed you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48603	I would like to thank the Honorable President. Dear Ministers with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, we wanted to point out this amendment to the name of the newly established sports association with the desire to clearly differ from the name of another sports association. When we get an explanation, let me say, we can agree with the explanation, so that our Parliament club today participates in this debate and the amendments that have been accepted and we want to defend some of those amendments that may not have been clear enough or there is a reason why they are not accepted. One of these amendments can, in part, agree with the explanation for which this amendment is rejected. We may not have taken into account this historical component that indeed, and you have listed it here, the Club "Worker", there is almost every city and in my city there is one "Worker" and that it can be a real problem, but on the other hand we really wanted to give an accent to newly formed sports associations and that we should or should have made a difference in the name, not only in relation to other sports associations, but also in relation to sports companies. Any new association in this world might be able to use a previous name. This may have led us astray, and our wish was to point out this problem, given that, in the framework of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary club – Together for Serbia – Green Serbia, we have consulted that the explanation is correct and that we may not have taken everything into account, we just wanted to further explain what our wish was, which we thought we might be able to achieve...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48604	Thank you. Members of the 46th amendment were jointly tabled by MPs Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Green Serbia. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48605	I would like to thank the Honorable President. Dear ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, in this amendment we have, to say, a slightly different idea and a wish that the name of the sports association cannot contain a word or words that offend public morality or which are aimed at destroying constitutional order and disrupting the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, etc. In this explanation, this sounds a little conspiracyal, but we thought it was clear that certain words could not be used in the name of the sports association and that we used the provisions contained in the Association Act and we thought this should also be contained in the Sport Act. Also, in this explanation of insulting public morality as a category is flexible and can be interpreted as such, but we have taken an example in the mothering service when a parent can assess that possibly by assigning a child's name that was just born, it can potentially question or compromise the future and the right of that child that we can really offend public morality with some paternityal name. It was an idea that we had, too, and maybe it could be left somewhere that someone couldn't, that I wouldn't bid names that could be very funny in Serbia, on the one hand, but they could be very offensive, but maybe we could find a way to protect them. Thank you for your attention and continue this exchange of arguments.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48606	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48607	We would have accepted the amendment, but because of the term "public morality" we couldn't, because the main problem is that there is no clear definition of what public morality is. Just because we didn't define it, we shouldn't have accepted it, but we essentially agree with your constructive idea and we support it, but the term "public morality" at this point is not recognized by the limitations that we would have included. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48608	Thank you. Members of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia jointly submitted to the 55th amendment. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have accepted the amendment, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The word is Milena Bycanin.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48609	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Minister, I haven't had a chance to take part in a big debate. I was really prevented for objective reasons, but I must express my satisfaction that out of the eight proposed amendments of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, you adopted seven. This is one in a row, the first to appear here, and we've intervened on these deadlines for calling the Sports Association Assembly. We thought that the suggested numbers of days, so to speak, were a little larger than the ones that can actually be realized. The proposed solution states that the assembly must be convened no later than 30 days and the longest until the end of the 60th day. But you really understood, or our opinions came together. First of all, information technology allows for a very fast access to information, quick information on the call for a session, the delivery of material for the preparation of the session, so that in order to successfully work on a sports organisation and solve the problems of which the Assembly is getting older, we thought that these deadlines improve the efficiency and protection of the general interest of sport and organization which both sports society deals with and, of course, its governing body, anyone we talk about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48610	Thank you. Members of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia jointly submitted to the 56th amendment. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have accepted the amendment, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Members of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group submitted together to the 58th amendment. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have accepted the amendment, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? (No) Thank you. Members of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia jointly submitted to the 62nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development, the Information Society have accepted the amendment, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milena Bijanin.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48611	Thank you. This member of 62, who says that members of the sports associations' bodies are solidly responsible for the damage they cause by their decision, and I am indeed ministers very personal and I say as a party, as a parliamentary group, we are pleased that you have adopted this amendment with which, let me say, our understanding. People make decisions with different motives. Just an act of voting doesn't mean that at that moment you're really thinking the right way and you have the right reason to make that decision. If you use your civic right to give an opinion, and this amendment really allows it, if you enable and draw attention to the other members of the congregation or any body, to think again about the solution that is offered, is it timely. You really use the opportunity to give your sports society a quality and good decision to the association. I'd say it's moving towards a good Greek old tradition. They had a law against bad laws, if you have a bad intention, you will be punished. This is where that intention is prevented, and that's very good and positive. Thank you for your understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48612	Thank you. The amendment was passed to repeat. Members of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, Green Serbia -- submitted together to the 67th amendment. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48613	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, we've been trying to amend Article 67 by amendment, and Article 67 is talking about enrolment in the register. And you say – the registration register includes the form of an organization of a sports association. Further, the name, seat and address of the sports association sports branch, sports discipline, data on the representative. We suggest that the data on the representative be changed and that "the information on the founder, the representative and members of the board of directors and supervisory boards" be read. We propose that, in addition to the number of accounts of "exemptions and additions of the Statutes", we replace the words "to submit a regular annual financial report" because we believe that in this register, in addition to submitting an annual report to the APR, it is necessary for greater transparency and public insight into the business of supplementing this member that the regular annual financial report is also published on this website. In point 2, you say that the register contains the following data: Act, and this short name, the name in the language and letter of the national minority, the name in translation into the foreign language, etc., and we suggest that, behind the notation of data of importance and legal traffic, the words “Name and home number of the company and other legal persons whose sports association is the founder”. This is what we propose for a simple reason because the extension of data required to be entered in the register by entering into the register data on the founders of the association, as well as on members of the board of directors and supervisory board of associations. This would increase transparency, with the publication of a financial report allowing for wider insight into the business of clubs. You're the one who turned this down with an explanation that... [[off microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48614	Time, thank you. I gave you seven seconds more. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48615	This information shall not even be entered in the general register of the association. It's about personality data that could be misused. The founders are ordinary members and have the same rights and obligations as all the other members of that association. Data on financial reports are already being reported in a special register, so we don't think duplication is necessary. This is about attitude 1, and as regards attitude 2, the data on founders of companies is water in the register of companies and is essentially not necessary, because we have a unique database that we are working out and expanding and making it mandatory. All organisations in the field of sport are referred to in Article 65(7). Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48616	Thank you. Members of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic-SDS, the ZZS, the ZS, submitted together to the 70th amendment. The word is Ivan Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48617	Thank you, Your Honor. The Honored Ministers with Associates, Honored Fellows and Fellows, in Article 70, our wish was for the sports association to be obliged to publish on its official internet presentation the revenue achieved in the previous year at the end of 31 December of the previous year, for each type of income under Item 1. We're kind of clear on your explanation, but since we're still living in the 21st century, I don't see what the interest of the club would be if there was no Internet presentation, and for me it's unimaginable that anyone today has no official presentation that this is a club, and even people, individuals have their own Internet presentations, but we're ready to suggest something that I didn't think to suggest to you on that previous amendment that we talked about. Come on, let me say, we're reshaping this amendment, and I guess we have the right to, so that maybe there's no amendment, the idea is ours, but let this amendment be accepted. If you tell us, let me say, as in the explanation, that the problem is that it's a public announcement only of income and not of expenditure. Here, we are ready to reshape the amendment to show both income and expenditure and see if such an amendment is acceptable, we are ready to give it to the government or perhaps to the Committee responsible for this, to talk about such an amendment, because if it is the essence of the reasons why we do not accept that we have proposed only one part of the income, and not the expenditure. So it could have been about that public insult of public morality. Come on, let's find another word, if the amendment is acceptable and let it be an amendment to the Committee. We are prepared as a parliamentary group to accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48618	Thanks, time. Members of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic-SDS, ZZS, ZS, ZS, together submitted the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48619	Thank you, Your Honor. In the part where we talk about Article 71 and our ideas to propose this amendment, we might be able to reduce the jurisdiction of local self-government a little bit, or the interference of local self-government a little bit different. We had an idea to delete the transfer of founding rights to a local self-government unit whose territory the club is based on or in attitude 8. to be left to the local self-government to choose the authorities of a business society. Even in your explanation, let's say, there is enough reason to think about such an amendment, because you say in your explanation, which is really extensive and long, that it is generally known that in a large number of municipalities and cities in Serbia exist so-called. city clubs which the city, the municipality treats as its own club, fund them almost entirely and give its representatives in a formal or informal way to the authorities of the management of these clubs, regardless of which they are registered as sports associations. Such a situation is unsustainable and unacceptable, especially when it comes to professional sports clubs. Our idea, in part, was what you say or realize in an explanation. We had this idea that we might reduce the influence of local self-government units, or perhaps in some future privatisation process, that part that's within the jurisdiction of the local self-government unit, that we might talk about it, but this exhaustive response may lead us to that confusion, and we have good, positive influences.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48620	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48621	I'm sorry I had to go out for a while. I'll try to respond briefly and come back, if I may, to the previous one. As far as possibilities are concerned, if he can't operate the organization, he can transfer rights and obligations. It is legally acceptable and there are solutions in the world that have provided positive examples when it comes to this and we have just led these positive examples. We couldn't find negative examples in that area. Taking into account the whole of the law and just fixing the funding of sports at the bar, when we defined that 20% of the sports assets can no longer be given, I apologize, of those 20% of the organization, we had to open up the possibility of clubs living from local self-government units and it's not secret if I said that in discussions in Novi Pazar, Nis and other places the mayors said that they were clubs that they funded much more than 20% and that sport or that club would be shut down, which has a huge tradition for that unit of local self-government. Given that we don't crash, let's be open, the first football league, because most of the clubs in the first football league are funded by more than 20% of the funding they're committed to sports. We had to give the possibility that the local self-government unit could take over the rights and obligations, but I repeat, in case the first sports association voted in the Assembly that it wanted to transfer, and then voted in the local self-government unit assembly that they wanted to accept. We are thus giving us the opportunity to facilitate funding and the possibility of a public private partnership.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48622	Members of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic-SDS, ZZS, ZSS, submitted together to Article 73 of the amendment. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48623	Therefore, Article 73 says – the sports association runs business books and submits financial reports in accordance with accounting regulations. The next stance says – annual financial reports from the sports association appear on the Agency's website, in accordance with the law. We have added that – the sports association is obliged to publish on its official internet presentation a regular annual financial report, no later than the next day of the day of submission of the report by the competent authority. You refused an amendment explaining that the proposed amendment is rejected as non-discriminatory, given that there is no legal obligation for all sports associations to have an official internet presentation, and that the transparency of financial transactions is ensured by the mandatory publication of the annual financial report of sports associations on the Agency's website for Business Registers. You know what, Minister, in the 21st century, it's normal for us all to have an Internet presentation, including sports associations. And why did we ask her to be on their Internet presentation? Well, you said yourself that a bunch of sports clubs in Serbia are funded from budget money. For greater transparency, I see no reason why besides the Agency for Economic Registers and Obligations to publish a financial report on their site, there is no presentation of the association, so that citizens, of whom money is funded, can see how that money is spent. I think it's a bit of a bigger commitment to clubs, but it's useful for people whose money is spent on that sport to see how the people who run that club manage their money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48624	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48625	It is not prescribed that everyone has an obligation to have an internet site and I have to tell you that, and if that's normal nowadays, when you go into smaller environments, when you come to those clubs, especially those country football clubs, if I may put it that way, they don't have the opportunity to have an Internet presentation and a website. I mean, it's the objective circumstance of today, and the APR will definitely have to publish and be available there, which provides transparency and can be seen on the APR website. This obligation already exists for all direct and indirect budget beneficiaries receiving funds from public sources, as referred to in Article 8(1). Budgetary system law. Well, it's a vague connection to the demand that those clubs don't receive public funds too. So we emphasized transparency absolutely, but let's not impose on those who have no obligation to do it, because there are clubs that are funded only by membership fees and do not receive funds from public revenues.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48626	Members of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic-SDS-ZZ-ZS submitted together to the 74th amendment. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48627	Therefore, Article 74 says – a sports association competing in a national, or professional sports competition, runs books and submits a financial report in accordance with accounting regulations relating to companies. The audit of the financial reports of the sports associations referred to in Article 1 shall be carried out in accordance with the rules on the revision relating to companies. The following position says – the audit report referred to in Article 2 shall be published on the Agency’s website. We have suggested that, the following position says – the sports association of the first member's position is required to publish on this official internet presentation an audit report from item 2 at the latest on the next day of the day of submission of the report to the competent authority. You have explained that the proposed amendment is rejected, as inconsistencies, because the transparency of financial operations is sufficiently ensured by the mandatory publication of audit reports on the APR website. Minister, transparency is never enough. If rural clubs did not have the opportunity to publish on the website because they do not have, sports associations competing in a national or professional sport competition have an internet presentation. I think you could accept this. I say, never a lot of transparency, it doesn't hurt anything, what they send to the Agency, one click on the computer button and they have to send it to their site, so people have the opportunity to have insight into their business.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48628	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48629	The audit report must have professional clubs, clubs competing in the highest level of competition. These audit reports must be published in the APR. The report published on the APR site is the only relevant and valid and we protect the accuracy of this document, as it would. The club can publish its audit report, but if he's right, we don't know. The only thing that's true is when you enter the APR site and that's why we find it unnecessary to introduce this kind of transparency, because whoever has access to the Internet and who wants to see the audit report better go to the APR site than think about whether the audit report published by the same club is valid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48630	Member of the 78th amendment was submitted by MP Zika Gojkovic. National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Dejan Nikolic, Jovan Markovic, Vesna Martinović, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov submitted to the amendment. The word is made by MP Jovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48631	Dear Ministers with Associates, this amendment that we have submitted also concerns deadlines and we have considered, despite the fact that your associates who have done a great deal of work in preparing this law and have made sure to explain well the answer for the refusal of this amendment and to refer to the deadlines related to the APR. We felt it was very important because of all the problems that Serbian citizens have on the issue of the administration's response to the solution, regarding complaints that point to various levels of government, to specify this time as well as the response to the agency's solutions. Given that Serbian citizens are having growing problems at every turn because the administration has increased in the last few years, and they have a situation in everyday life that they do not get answers to their complaints, we have the latest examples related to the Law on Law on Planning and Construction, for many other laws, where people simply have no more ways to fight with the administration and the state. And the fact that some political personnel have entered some institutions is just about how inefficient the state has become. This is about sports. Very often you have a situation that clubs that have gone through difficult stages, above all financial transactions have come into very critical situations and even if they wait for the state to decide, or institutions in this country to answer them, I don't know how many months of their complaints, then it would be a simple one to humiliate their existence and functioning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48632	National MPs Natasa Vučković, Dejan Nikolic, Jovan Markovic, Vesna Martinović, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov together submitted to the 88th amendment. The word is made by MP Jovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48633	Dear Ministers, this member refers to the conduct of liquidating managers in the process of shutting down sports clubs and in attitude 2 is said to have a financial report drawn up with the date on which the liquidation was completed and the liquidation report is approved by the Assembly of the Sports Association. If the Assembly of the Association does not meet or do not hold up for lack of quorum, the winding-up manager shall complete the liquidation procedure without authorisation. We asked for this procedure to be done with the ministry's consent. Given that I'm always in favour of doing procedures transparently, that the ministry in some way involves itself in the sense that it gives consent to some procedures and considering how badly some individuals have acted from different periods, from various cases, including sports and sports clubs, it's unacceptable that some people, associations and some sports clubs are left to themselves. Let's say, in case there was a change in the political structure or government like it was a few years ago, that there was a risk of the functioning of a sports society, and then just because of the decisions we're making and this sports society is left to ourselves, we're going to be in a situation that this liquidation manager is very easy to complete, and maybe that's not the way it should be. I'm always about to fight and give people a chance to survive at a certain point, to thrive, to develop, etc. And if the ministry doesn't get involved in these proceedings, and if we allow cases to be solved in one easy way, we're going to come up with statistics, that we as a ministry and a state just verify some estimates and some procedures that don't actually have some great vitality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48634	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48635	We agree with you. Here, specifically for this member of the law, it is a matter of voluntary suspension of the association, not of the contrary. The ministry of youth and sports is not competent to participate in the liquidation process. That's why we're not able to accept it, because there's no point in asking for approval in a situation where the club is shut down and members, so they've already decided that they want the club not to exist. You can't bring those members together anymore, you can't influence them and motivate them to keep the congregation together to make a decision at all. We are therefore of the view that when it comes to voluntary shutting down, there is no need to involve either the ministry or to give this possibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48636	Thank you. By amendment, MP Jovan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48637	Here was the motive to propose the amendment, although I knew that some of the arguments would be as we heard and I appreciate that it was an explanation that was related to most of the examples, and my amendment was just about those specific examples that could be analysed as examples of mistreatment, so you have that in mind somewhere. Let's just say, an example from Užica. We had the FK "Freedom" that played the first league, we made a nice stadium, the most beautiful stadium in western Serbia, at the time maybe in Serbia, to track sports results in football. At that time when we created this sports complex, the team selector was Mr. Antić, the captain of the team was Vidic from Užica, we had a great atmosphere to create these conditions, sports conditions to support "Freedom" and to play not only the first league, but also European competitions. After two years of completing the facility it happened that the changed power in the town of Uzic, the second mayor came, after and third, and people estimated at a given moment that it was best to shut down the sports club "Freedom" because they fell out of the second league and because, I don't know, debts are big, problems in functioning, businessmen give up funding, politics can no longer interfere in sport. They estimate it's too much to eat for them. Do you know what the recommendation at that FK's assembly was at the moment when you have a turning point in functioning whether they're going to continue in another league or some other model? The policy recommendation in the town of Uzic was to shut down the FK, or start from the zone, from the concrete league. That's why I'm saying that you just have moments and situations where some people just want to go in some other direction, some other concept, and then it totally collapses both the functioning and everything that was both the past and the future. That was what I wanted to point to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48638	Thank you. The word has a National MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48639	Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I absolutely support your explanation of why the proposed amendment should be rejected. Namely, Article 88. The proposal for a law on sport is very precise and very clear and the position 2 is very explicit when and in which situations the liquidator ends the liquidation procedure without approval. So I think this proposed amendment is too much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48640	Thank you. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Ivan Karic and Mr. Blagoja Bradic together. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48641	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, may have remained unspeakable, just allow me one sentence concerning the amendment to Article 70. It's not important for us to accept our amendment. If the idea is acceptable, if we finance from public funds, only those who receive public funds to publish both entry and exit and until the end of the debate can be required to define this amendment either as a government or as a Sports Committee. I don't know if we were quite clear at that point. As regards Article 91, The SDP, the ZZ and the PGI have proposed that the ban on the operation of the sports association is aimed at violent destruction of constitutional order and violation of the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, violation of guaranteed human or minority rights, fostering inequality, intolerance by religious, national and other belongings or definitions. Although I must admit that Greens can often be a problem with limiting freedom, we have indeed been witnessing that certain freedoms to certain groups or certain people are right to endanger one's freedom with their freedom. We are as a parliamentary group grateful for the adoption of this amendment. Perhaps sometimes a restriction or a restriction of freedom can lead to freedom being conditionally higher, I say, although for Green Serbia it seems like a small contradiction, given the time we are in, perhaps truly someone with the understanding of their freedom can endanger some religious, national, racial, minority freedom. Thank you for the government's recognition of our wish, and we will continue with these amendments, regardless of what once there really are differences that are evident. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48642	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Vanja Udovicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48643	We'll talk definitely, but that obligation exists under the Budgetary System Act and Bill Proposal Article 130(5). As regards the amendments to Article 91, our solution has been taken completely from Article 53(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but we have accepted an amendment that equalises with the Law on Associations, as this is a more comprehensive development of a constitutional principle that can be more useful in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48644	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48645	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I support this amendment, because this way the meaning of Article 91 is strengthened. The law. In fact, it is more fully regulated to prevent the operation of sports associations in the direction of violating human and minority rights or causing and encouraging inequality, hatred and intolerance based on racial, national, religious and other fundamentals and other belongings in fact. It is good that it is possible for the adoption of this amendment, including a number of others, to improve otherwise a good bill, only as with a number of other laws, we have major problems in implementing legal standards. Unfortunately, for the sake of the mentioned important social standards in the Presevo municipality, there are very little opportunities, because the current sports activities in this extremely undeveloped municipality are drastically reduced and are at a lower level than even in the 30s. He then functioned in Presevo FK which competed until the Niška zone, and now we have only three rural clubs competing in the lowest level in the Pcinj County, and those matches are held, playing only on the playground in the village of Bukurevac, which can't even fence the terrain, the playground, because they can't provide funds from neither the municipality nor the famous Co-ordination Body that works there, for what, 15, 16 years for these municipalities, nor from the ministry, where they applied last year. Mostly a competition in this municipality with 30,000 inhabitants is organised in small football. However, there are these paved sports grounds for small football and basketball. Schools have sports halls, but very poorly equipped with adequate equipment. Unfortunately, the largest school with 1,700 students has a sports hall in which no sport activity can normally take place because it is so amortised, parquet and children are more at risk than they can carry out sports activities. I believe there are so many municipalities that don't even have a gym. There is now this problem, that we have a drastic level of sporting activity and then very weak opportunities for these standards that regulate this member to be implemented in practice, to educate and educate young people in this plan, in addition to what sport has in the development of children, youth, health and any other aspect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48646	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Ivan Karic and Mr. Blagoja Bradic together submitted to the 92th amendment. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48647	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, here, finally, after a long time to agree on an amendment that speaks about sports companies, and he says that sports business can form a natural or legal person, that the net profit which in the current year is achieved by the company referred to in Article 1 must be at least 70% reinvested in the sport activities of that society, that the fulfilment of the terms of this member determines by a sports inspector in the framework of inspection supervision, that the same person cannot directly, indirectly or through the related persons in the sense of the law governing companies to be the owner, i.e. to have a share or action in more than one sports business company in the same degree of competition, that the same person can not directly, indirectly or through related persons whose business and activities can directly influence competition in the same degree of sports competition, that is involved in sports and sports, etc. We have added a new position, which says that a person who has a share or shares in a sports business, who has been elected or appointed to a public office or to a function in the political party's body, is required to transfer within 30 days of the day of election or appointment, the management right on the basis of a stake or action to a legal or natural person who is not associated with him, that he, in his name and for the account of the official, performs them until the end of the public office, or functions in the political party's authority, and that he informs about this transfer of sports business. We suggested this for a simple reason because we wanted to prevent conflict of interest and politicisation in sport, which we agree that should be minimised and excluded from sport.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48648	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Vanja Udovicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48649	The adoption of this amendment is related to the acceptance of amendments to Article 33 and constitutes a functional continent when it comes to depoliticalisation in sport. Thank you for the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48650	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Natasa Vučković, Dejan Nikolic, Jovan Markovic, Vesna Martinovic, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Dragan Sutanovac and Vesna Marjanovic together submitted to the 93th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48651	Dear Ministers with Associates, we have, through all the amendments that we have made throughout this bill, pointed out that it is very important that there is this synergy between ministers, i.e. ministries and sports organisations, border alliances, local, etc., and we have always felt that the consent to certain procedures must be given by representatives of the ministry. In this case, paragraph 3 states: “In order to carry out sport activities independently, regulations governing entrepreneurship are applied, if this law is not different. The Minister shall prescribe closer to the conditions laid down in Article 2." Just as we seemed to take advantage of that opportunity, you said in the answer you gave in your explanation that it was almost impossible for all of the 132 branches to be included now so that they could give you their suggestions and suggestions, based on which you would prescribe the conditions. We thought that it was precisely the goal of raising that level and that of the 20 border alliances that are currently functioning, let's say, under control, with a good party relationship, that the number and level should rise. If you would use this amendment of ours, we would come to a situation where it would be a kind of obligation and that all the border unions would make their remarks, make their proposals, and that you as a ministry would adopt it or agree on them. In case that's impossible for all 132, then we'll say that all those who surrender by some point will get consent, and those who can't do it in some period, or that they get additional deadlines or other kind of limited obligations, in order to increase their degree of involvement in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48652	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Vanja Udovicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48653	In practice, since it is an undertaking that operates, it would mean that if an entrepreneur rents equipment, and for this activity we would have to ask for the consent of 132 alliances. That's why we wrote in the explanation that it's impossible in practice, because now for whoever wants to perform any kind of action, while we gather the opinions of all alliances, I think functionally today it's impossible, because that's what extends the deadline of consent. We think it's dysfunctional at this point. From this very case, we were unable to accept your amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48654	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Gordan Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Ivan Karic and Mr. Blaža Bradić. A sheep and Vesna Marjanović. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48655	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, we have submitted an amendment to Article 94, and he says that by intervening athletes, i.e. sports experts from one sport organisation to another and when the contract is concluded between athletes, i.e. sports experts and sports organisations, companies, entrepreneurs in the field of sports, etc. The authorisation for the work of the Sports Intermediation Organisation shall include the relevant personality data referred to in Article 5(2) of this Act. Furthermore, a member says that the work permit issued to a sports media organisation by the relevant international sports union is considered to be a valid permit for work under Article 1 of this Article during which it has been issued. Then the new view says that a contract to intervene with a sportsman who does not have full business ability can be fully concluded only with written and certified prior to, in accordance with the law, the consent of both parents, or guardians. We added, that is, one parent with whom to live. The amendment is proposed because we have brought it into line with the amendment that we have submitted to Article 10, with your explanation for which you have not accepted it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48656	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Member of the 96th Amendment was submitted by MP Zika Gojkovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Žika Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48657	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is another amendment I filed when it comes to the law on sports. It's a 96th member who regulates the existence of sports societies as a special sport co-operation, which essentially does not serve any sporting activity other than for various marifettelucas within sports life, which we have had the opportunity to see in the past. The proposal is to delete all three proposed positions in the law and introduce instead a new four that would only serve to bring sports companies' jobs to an end as special, as I have said to the co-operations and the parasport authorities. I assumed that this change would cause a lot of attention and that it was actually trying to shut down something that took years, but my desire was to put out something that actually hit the core of the nonsense that exists in sports life. I know that there are a lot of those who disagree with me, but very often for completely ground floor reasons that it's simply something that existed before and that should exist in the future. In addition to that, I would mention one small fact that a small number of people know, which is that clubs are essentially private property of the joint members of that club and that they have no state property. What was I going to say with this amendment? We have examples of Red Star sports companies and Partizan. By the way, I'm an ex-sportsman, and a man who has great respect for Clubs Partizan and Red Star, I like to watch basketball and football, but what I don't like to watch are scams in those clubs. So, if the court were to initiate proceedings against these clubs over debts of over tens of millions of euros, alongside club leaders who would be sued for damages, all members of the club would be sued as solid debtors. They could save themselves from paying a part of the debt only if they can prove a record that, when deciding on borrowings, they have singled out their opinions or were recorded in the record as those who voted against a harmful decision, which could, of course, be very difficult to prove. The bottom line is that we have sports societies that have covered huge debts from various clubs that have made various administrations and that no one has ever been responsible for these debts that are being made. I think that in this way we would literally target, show what kind of people who have done damage to our great collectives in the first place I think of Partizan and the Red Star, and that these people, both criminally and in any other way, would, of course, be responsible for what they did to the biggest clubs. Also, I think that in a situation like this, a situation like this so far, if less environments, mostly clubs were in a worse position than larger and larger sports societies, because those clubs would be in charge, if they didn't have financial opportunities to pay their debts, especially when it comes to taxes, they would shut down and leave the lowest rankings of competitions. I think that's how local self-government was affected, and that's how the big problem was small. It is therefore necessary to obtain a stable ownership structure within clubs, instead of a member's share of citizens. Of course, it's going to be the second part, the part where we talk about privatisation, but regardless of what this seems to someone like one, to say, a more radical member, and regardless of the explanation that I understood and accepted from the Ministry of Sports, why this amendment is not accepted, I think maybe this is one step that needs to be considered in the future, in order to eliminate the various frauds we've had in sport so far, and especially in football. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48658	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Vanja Udovicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48659	I do not agree with the legal procedure that would follow, that we do not enter into particulars to respond to the amendment itself. We were not in a position to accept the amendment because in practice it would mean shutting down sports societies in Serbia, thereby shutting down the Red Star Sports Society, the Partizan Sports Society, the Worknic Sports Society, etc. We believe there is a need for sports societies and your amendment would eliminate the possibility that they exist. That's why we had to reject your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48660	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 99th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Ivan Karić and Dr Blagoja Bradić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Ivan Karic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48661	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, our amendment, the amendment of the SDS parliamentary group, the ZZS, the ZS, to article 99, says, "The chairman of the administration, members of the assembly and members of the administration of the national border sports alliance cannot be the performers of public functions, nor the functions in the bodies of political parties." Something similar was accepted through the amendment to Article 33. The moment we did the amendments, we couldn't know that, of course, and our wish was to strengthen the argument. We are pleased to accept the amendment to Article 33. Speaking of sports, I come from the Obrenovac municipality. The obstetricians know you were coming and what the situation was during the flood. The obrenovac slowly recovers after the flood, slowly or quickly, however, recovers from the flood. Sports companies function, associations function, children go to training for free and use sports clubs services. We have good co-operation with the Ub municipality, so we take our children to the sports halls the Ub municipality has on weekends. I also appeal to you not to forget the Obrenovac. We still have a big sports hall. I hope you'll continue, I know you're happy to come to Obrenovac and be happy to see a guest there, but we'd like to continue to train our children in our halls. We are grateful to the Ub municipality for giving us the halls. We hope that in the time that comes, everything will be restored. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48662	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Vanja Udovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48663	Thank you for your commendations, suggestions and facts. It is certain that both Obrenovac and Ub and other parts of Serbia will not be forgotten and that we will visit in a recent period and see what is even more concrete as we can contribute to improving the situation itself that has hit Obrenovac and Ub and surrounding places. In Article 98(3), it has already been a long time, I pointed out, I want to point out again, a similar application is prescribed for all that applies to the association to be valid for the alliance. So we agree with you, and we support you, and I think it's a general consensus when it comes to depoliticalisation, but once again, let me point out, there's been accepted dedepoliticalization in associations that is absolutely related to the proper application and alliances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48664	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Ivan Karić and Mr. Blagoja Bradić together. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Dr Blagoja Bradić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48665	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Article 100 says that the competent national border sports alliance lays down the sport rules in the relevant sport branch, in accordance with the law and the sport rules of the competent international sports union. It further says that the sport rules of Article 1 are being established, so it says - system, proposition, rules and calendar of competition, conditions and criteria for participation in the national league sport competition, measures to prevent negative phenomena in sport. Under 9) Medical protection of athletes. We have suggested that point 9) reads: “The risks and dangers in the concrete branch of sports and the medical protection of athletes. ” You rejected us by reason that the reason for this was stated in an explanation for not accepting the amendments to Article 23. Article 23 says - the proposed amendment is rejected because its acceptance could create a space for different interpretations and different application in practice regarding defining what are the usual risks and dangers of dealing with a particular sport that excludes the right of athletes. I really don't understand what's better in the definition of "medical protection of athletes" and what you meant by that medical protection of athletes. All right, I accept that you do not accept it, it is your right not to accept it, but I think it is a much better explanation: "risks and dangers in the concrete branch of sports and medical protection of athletes", than you said: "medical protection of athletes". Here, I'm curious about what's going on here, how the sports rules deal with the medical protection of athletes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48666	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Vanja Udovicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48667	We've talked about this subject, but we're taking the lead that we can't cover all the risks that can be reported. It is precisely because I repeat this catalogue or list of all possible risks envisaged, because if they are only, is it harmful to engage in sports or what is harmful when it comes to sports, but the risk is also an injury at the workplace or injury when you perform sporting activity. That is why we believe that the inability to cover all risks and make such a single record, and I repeat, is a much greater possibility of abuse if we were to enable and reduce the club's responsibility to athletes, and precisely, I repeat, because of this abuse and the possibility of abuse, we did not accept your amendment, just for that reason.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48668	Thank you. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Natasa Vučković, Dejan Nikolic, Jovan Markovic, Vesna Martinovic, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Dragan Sutanovac and Vesna Marjanovic submitted the amendment together. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Mr. Jovan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48669	Dear Minister, I think this is one of the key amendments, or key members of the law we wanted to amend, and I would really like to ask your attention, and I would like to ask for an answer which is why this amendment has not been accepted. In fact, it is said here that the general interest in sports is a general interest, so the reasons for the points and the 14 points are stated that – the general interest of the state is the activity and programme and organisation in the field of sport, which is founded by the Republic of Serbia. We added that, continuing that these are units, that this is the AP Vojvodina Unit of Local Self-Government and we insist that this termology is very important in order to work towards achieving this first goal, which we have as a planned goal in the bill, which is an increase and includes citizens of Serbia who are engaged in physical activities. If we leave out this terminology, or if you pass the proposal as you would say, then there are almost no members of the laws that give local administration units the possibility or obligation to engage at some point. I am telling you that without a unit of local administration and without local sports alliances, you will not achieve this first goal as a society, which is to include citizens in sports and to sort of solve health problems and all of those problems that you have or which we have analyzed in the context of the law which is why we adopt the law. I think that the examples of negative practices that have been present in Serbia over the past few years are not just politics, so from election to election and now the examples have been better before, and now they're worse in some period, I think all the negative examples of practices that are really obvious in Serbia should give us signals on how to actually solve this issue. I also tried in the principle debate to mention the town of Užica and the example from Užica to suggest how bad and harmful it is to suddenly create that intersection in support of sports results, in support of the construction of sports infrastructure. We've been in about four years since 2008/2012. The year ended, and the stadium, and the athletic trail, and the arena, and the pool, we ended up huge jobs in the construction of small sports fields, we made big investments and as regards the financing of clubs and support not only the budgets of the sports and clubs competition, but the animation of the city's general public in the sense that through business activities and every other kind of activity those athletes who deserve support are supported. We experienced that after two, three years, a new set of people who took over the city's leadership made no remembered intersection regarding sports support. The Freedom Football Club, which competed in the first league and played European games, fell into the second league. The basketball club that played the Super League turned out to be another league. The women's volleyball club that was the state's multiple champion fell into the second league. There are examples where our prominent athletes have to go to beg various sponsors, various insurance companies, various banks, various businessmen to support them in efforts to maintain themselves in some competitions. All these examples tell us how much trouble it is to support this top-of-the-line sport at a local level and without it there is no result. On the other hand, you have huge examples, and that's what I told you in the principle debate where projects like the Single School League, where we organized a contest in schools where the professors of physical culture for very small journals and animated their participation by thousands of young people who had a competition in schools. I ask the question, here, you were at the town pool in Uzica, which we talked about and in the principle debate which is certainly one of the most beautiful in Serbia that has its function towards citizens and which is examples of the size of the city and needs and economic opportunities for maintenance, which is why, through such schools of sport that would be financed by local administrations and the state, children of the city today would not be engaged and why they would not have at the time of the winter break and why they would not have a free swimming school. Why don't the little ones have 12,00 hours in the town of Užica, say by 15.00 hours or 1600 hours free of charge and why not today offer schools and cities of Užica in that sense that dozens and hundreds of children who today don't have a chance if there's no snow on Zlatibor are directed into physical activities at the pool. There are other contents on the pool. Halls exist in a city that can be activated and that can be given for free use to children. If we speak in this context that local administrations have a very important role to play in focusing all their potentials both human and professional and infrastructureal in this direction, then we will have effects. In order for that to happen, and for the most part, I say that for some smaller environments, for some smaller cities, those capacities would be directed in that direction that we as a society are achieving these goals. Then we'll get into a situation where school directors or directors of pre-school institutions or directors of sports halls can look at everything through the market and they decide who they're going to betray to who they won't betray. The problem that the funding we talked about in the principle debate is very important, but in order for programming to happen, to involve people who have knowledge, who have energy, who want to do something, you have to put this into the country's strategic goals. You must place these proposals as a priority for the conduct of all and institutions at local level, both state and sports alliances and organisations. If that happens, then I think we have a chance. If that does not happen then we will have great problems, that is, this basic and first objective that we have talked about in my opinion will not be achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48670	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48671	Thank you. Gentlemen, I would like to vote in favour of this amendment very much, given that the promoter has established in the general interest only an organisation whose founder is the Republic of Serbia and an organisation whose founder is the province of Vojvodina and the unit of local self-government. But he forgot the next position that reads – in the law on the achievement of general interest in sports under Article 1 of this article, funds are provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia. So, the activities and programmes of organisations can be implemented throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia if the founder of their organisation, the Republic of Serbia, is. If it were local self-government, I don't think that would be enforceable. Under number two, funds should also be provided for such a thing, and all local self-governments have their own means for sport, so they can look after these local organisations that would have to be financed from the Republic which also has no significant resources, and therefore, if they voted for this amendment, they would adopt the view that local self-government and AP Vojvodina would not have to finance anything, but the Republic would have the obligation to finance from this poor budget itself everything that the amendment's proposing wants to put into this. So for me, no matter how much I live in a place, it's unacceptable for the Republic to finance everything, and to push in local organizations, the circuit organisations to finance them by the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48672	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Vanja Udovicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48673	We don't want to violate the autonomy of the Republic, what the AP does, and what the local self-government unit does. It would lead to the financing of the same activity from public sources, which is prohibited in other programmes. I think this is about misunderstanding, because we have clearly defined what the AP finance is, and what is funded by the local self-government unit. It's just listed in these members of the law, much more detail what they're funding, because we have the possibility of co-financing, but we can't work, because activity can only be financed by the founder and would lead to a threat to autonomy in this particular case. Because all of what you've been saying, it's jurisdiction and the AP and local self-government units is the indifference of the Republic, because you've listed activity, not the programme itself. In the end, the AP Kosovo and Metohija are not listed, I believe you have lost it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48674	By amendment, MP Mr. Jovan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48675	Dear Minister, I didn't miss it, whenever I wrote the amendments, I wanted to say the province of Vojvodina, but from previous law experience it was always rejected, so I thought it was practice in this case, and I agree it should be brought here. When I proposed this amendment, I did not have that much in mind of the responsibility of financing the Republic, the province or local administrations, because it is considered to be one common continent. Why did I have such thinking as a motive? Points 8 and 9 contained in this article states the following, point 8. – providing conditions for the organisation and maintenance of school and university sports competitions at the level of the Republic of Serbia. So, school and university. Point 9 especially important – improving sports recreation, promotion and promoting and engaging in sports by all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, especially children, women, young people and persons with disabilities. When you say, at the end of this article, that means for the achievement of the general interest in sport in the position of the 1st member, funds are provided from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the respected Mr Risticevic, and then said below – the funds that are made available in the Republic of Serbia's budget through the acquisition of gambling, in accordance with the law, are used to achieve the general interest in the position of the 1st member. Dear Ministers, I have also seen this member and all other amendments, as well as a principled debate on the basic objectives of voting, to support this law, as one common continent. It is absolutely impossible for me, i.e. an unfulfilled idea and thinking, that you will provide all programmes and projects that concern the general interest in the Republic of Serbia from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. If the basic objective or the two basic objectives that we have discussed here is something that is the goal of the whole society, I think it is impossible only by means of the Republic of Serbia, or by the budget of the Republic of Serbia, to finance all this that we are talking about. If you don't include local administrations, if you're talking about school sports here, and you don't make that connection with local administrations, which as a priority for the allocation of sports funds, through sports alliances, will have investment in school sports, in children, in mass sports, then you have one big empty space, one hole that you don't respect as a potential opportunity to achieve these goals through such a kind of investment. That's why it was very important to me that not only in this article, I have listed this member here, but also in other members, and the original incomes of local administrations that are separated for sport, but also other revenues that are possible as the activation of potential at local level, aimed at that direction. If you have the opportunity to from the economy, through sponsorship, through funding, I don't know, as donations from banks, insurance companies, etc. You focus that money, you can focus it the easiest way through those programs. It is impossible to achieve both school sport and mass sports and involving children and women and disabled persons only through the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48676	Mr. Markovic, time. The word is made by Minister Vanja Udovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48677	You have submitted the amendment only to item 14, so if we extend the discussion in Article 134 the needs and interests of citizens in the area of autonomous provinces and in Article 137 needs and interests of citizens in the area and sport are to the unit of local self-government. Priorities are set in one and other needs, the development of school sports, so it is not only the Republic responsible for the development of school sports but also local self-government and autonomous province units. I think the real example, as well as the application and the commitment to establish a single system in the Republic of Serbia, is that at the end of 2014, we have adopted a strategy for the development of sport by 2018 and that this strategy is precisely defined that all units of local self-government must bring their own sports development strategies, 145 of them. We had an obligation to make a report on the implementation of the strategy on 6 January and I am proud to say that 130 units of local self-government have brought in their strategies and their sport development programmes. I think the sport is just showing that it can integrate and that it can make a bigger step because in my ministry, I'm not talking about other strategies, it's neither the same application nor the units of local self-government have taken over to that extent the implementation of the national strategy, in this case for the development of sport. When you take 130 out of 145 units to do that, then it turns out we're taking even care of the development of sports. What's coming to us now is detailed work and control, because it's one thing to bring strategy to the level of the unit of local self-government, the other thing is to train people to do at the bar what's determined by the strategy itself. But we've taken a huge step. We have taken a huge step towards regulating the system and implementing the national strategy for sports development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48678	Thank you. Member of the 123rd amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colaković. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo together submitted to Article 123 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Dejan Nikolic, Jovan Markovic, Vesna Martinović, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Dragan Sutanovac and Vesna Marjanovic submitted to the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48679	In Article 123(1), point (a) is replaced by the We have proposed that after the words "International tennis Federation" we add the words "or as members of a sports organisation, club, founded in the Republic of Serbia according to this law win the titles of European club champions or the world cup in Olympic and Paralympic sports disciplines". So, we've submitted this amendment after a lot of consultations, a lot of conversations with a lot of athletes, with a lot of associations. This amendment has in some way emerged from their needs and wants to point out this problem and in some ways seek to evaluate their results through support of the state and recognition of the state in every way. We have been given an explanation to reject this amendment, although it is our impression that we should think a little more about it and accept the demands of these people to adopt the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48680	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Vanja Udovicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48681	I do not dispute that it is large and significant for sport, but the success of the team, which is rewarded and given national recognition, is Serbia's success, and the success of the club is only the success of the club and those individuals who participated in this success and the creation of a tradition of the club itself. I have spoken to many winners of the highest competitions in club sports and their main is to recognise retroactively their successes, because their argument is – we were not paid enough at the time as the athletes who achieve these same results are now paid. The athlete has a contract, his rights and obligations are defined in the contract, and they are not small funds under which he performs and presents the same club. A sportsman who performs for the team... I don't have to talk about the importance, and that's absolutely at the will of the individual, not only at will, but it's a great honor and privilege to represent my country in an international contest, and that's why we're just saying that we're granting a national recognition. We cannot “nationally” lead to the success of clubs, and retroactively we cannot include those who have done so, and today players, athletes, are very well paid for these results.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48682	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48683	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I couldn't stand the amendments, and I got so little money going off to a Balkan game. It might be too much, we might have too many worthy athletes, but I think being a champion of the Balkans in the current conditions, when around us EU countries with far greater economic power, far greater economic potential for sport development, I think success is special, I think Turkey also participates in such games. I think it's an extraordinary success when you win a medal at the Balkan Championship. I'm sorry for another reason why I didn't submit to the amendment, because I wasn't sensitive enough when I read this law that was quite extensive. I'm sorry I didn't bring in the right of athletes who have suffered a more serious injury in preparation, and therefore are prevented from participating in medals, and that the team they were in preparation for has won the medal. So, I'm sorry we didn't take care of the injured athletes, who get hurt right before the competition, and their team wins the medal, and they're no longer able to deal with that kind of sport. That's why I'm sorry I didn't submit this amendment, but my God, I hope that there will be some other possibility that we will pay attention to athletes who, in order to prepare as best possible for the event where we won the medal, have contributed to their teammates being as ready in that competition as possible and the circumstances resulting from the injury fall out of that competition. With that in mind, I think we should think about them a little bit. If this injury is of a more serious nature and they can no longer deal with this sport, that in such situations they also get, because, above all, they need this kind of help to get the right to receive, after 40 years, recognition that they would certainly, as part of that selection, have adopted, that the preparations themselves were not prevented from winning such a medal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48684	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Ninoslav Giric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48685	Thank you. I'll just take a few sentences. I agree with the minister's explanation. This amendment should certainly be rejected for two reasons. So, the life of athletes and coaches differs. Coaches can continue their career after 40 years in terms of education, coaching work, etc., and the expansion of these awards, I think, would further jeopardise Serbia's budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48686	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Milan Petrovic submitted to Article 123 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Milan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48687	In our view, as regards Article 123(2), it is illogical for the coaches of the Republic of Serbia in those competitions where the team, whose coaches, won one of the medals, is granted only monetary, one-time assistance without being granted national sport recognition. The success of a team, especially in collective sports, depends largely on both coaches and not just athletes. We think it's correct that they have the same status as athletes. I hope you'll think about it, though, because our amendment predicts that in several disciplines only an additional national sport recognition is awarded, and that is water polo, handball, basketball, volleyball and football. If the state is not a problem to assign national sports recognitions, let's say to a team of 20 athletes, how is that a problem to do for a coach? We're talking about a group of five people here, and we don't think that's burdening the budget at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48688	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Vanja Udovicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48689	I've played a lot of competitions in my life and made significant results and in each of them I know my contribution and I know how much the coach's contribution is, which and how it has a significant impact when it comes to winning a single competition. I want to repeat why we gave up accepting this amendment. We do not want to make discrimination in sport, and we believe that by seizing certain sports, although it is much easier in these sports to define who this coach was and to define his merit for winning some of the medals at European and world level. We think they'd make a clear difference between these sports and some others, and they're not small results, sports that you didn't count. At this point, we have athletics, kayaks, rowing, shooting, wrestling, judo, etc. Huge results, and that was the attitude of individuals when this regulation was adopted and when we didn't have so many sports results in other sports. When it comes to coaches, we also recognized them in awards and awards coaches get and are even with athletes. I think it's important for the citizens to know. The coach can coach more athletes and has a longer life span, because the athlete in 35 can no longer objectively perform for the team, and the coach can lead the team and be their coach for a very long time. We have a problem with coaches who are coaches of individuals at the club and coaches who are national trainers. The coach still deserves to follow the individual in the club for nine months, ten or just one who is a national selector and takes over the work of the other, and is being led as a selector and is officially being held as a selector. It's precisely because you can't make a difference, but also because of the other side that's a long century long coach and what gets awards and what one coach happens, we now have that one coach of the two athletes has the right to two wrongs. I don't think it should be rewarded with national recognition, and it doesn't diminish the importance of winning that medal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48690	The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Ivan Karic and Mr. Blagoja Bradic. The word has a National MP, Miroslav Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48691	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to member of the 124th parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia has submitted an amendment and the amendment aims to introduce order. in a way appropriate to the conditions in society, these rewards are also set. It's about top athletes. When I read the explanation, it seems to me, the Ministry that you didn't understand the amendment, because the answer is completely contrary to what we suggested. The amendment is - in Article 124 after Article 2 adds new positions 3 and 4 which read - the monthly amount of national sports recognition cannot exceed the amount of two average monthly net earnings in the Republic of Serbia, determined according to the authority responsible for statistics operations for the year preceding the year in which national sports recognition is awarded. The amount of the cash prize referred to in Article 123 cannot exceed the amount of two average annual net earnings in the Republic of Serbia established according to data from the statistics authority for the year preceding the year in which the cash prize is awarded. In your explanation, you wrote that the amendment is non-discriminatory, because the amount of funding for national sports recognitions depends on the overall potential of the budget. So, as someone who worked at the state administration, if you have the statistical data of the previous year, you are able to predict the budgets that you will be able to implement in the following year. Secondly, the height here is determined on the basis of the average, so two average personal incomes, and that's completely proportionate to the state's capabilities, which means how much of that average personal income is going to be higher by developing the state, so these recognitions will be. This isn't about all the athletes, it's about national recognitions, or athletes who've achieved it, and you know what?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48692	Time, colleague Marinkovic. The word is made by Minister Vanja Udovicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48693	Maybe we didn't understand each other, but the way we read it is that the year that preceded the national recognition at two averages is repeated. What does that mean? For example, today when I turn 40, in the previous year, there are two averages, so let me say some amount, and if I'm going to get that amount every year, it's a kind of discrimination, because in 30 years, the one that is... (Miroslav Marinkovic, from town: You did not understand. ) Well, we may not have understood each other, and our response to the amount of funding for national sports recognitions depends on the overall possibilities of the Republic of Serbia's budget, is that this regulation and we cannot expect that, in relation to the reduction in budget or the reduction in pay power, or the current situation, that if everything decreases by 50%, the level of national recognition cannot remain the same. And it's the regulation that determines how high the national recognition prize is. So it's undeniable that someone will get a national recognition, but the height is determined by the government's regulation, and that's why we're giving an opportunity in relation to the amount of funds, i.e. as much as in the Republic of Serbia's budget, we can pay for that year. It's very possible that we didn't understand each other, because everyone who read your amendment read it like that, and that's why we didn't accept it, and the precision of the amendment can be considered, but at this point, as it was written, we realized that there was an inequality in incomes compared to the athlete who won it 20 years ago, i.e. He deserved a national confession and this one after 20 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48694	On what grounds, Mr. Marinkovic? (Miroslav Marinkovic, from the post: According to the amendment, the time of the parliamentary group. You've wasted your time. You're out of time. On Article 124, the amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colakovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Momo Colaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48695	The esteemed chairman, the presidency, respected ministers with associates, honourable MPs, the PUPS parliamentary group has expressed its views on the law through honourable MPs Veljkovic and Banic. I will say that he is very good, that he is acceptable, comprehensive and that he regulates much better relations in this system of sports and physical culture than the law, which I also voted for in 2011. I will only list a few reasons aside from those who listed the honourable letters, why we support it. First of all, he is very versatile, comprehensive, he points out and allows space for sports and physical culture of all citizens of Serbia from children to the elderly and this is very important and important. Second, he does well-relationships related to amateur sports. He also works very well on relationships for professional sport. I particularly stress the need for him to regulate equality relations for sports without discrimination. I especially stress the need and ask the minister that the privatisation law appears before this assembly as soon as possible. Why? Because this law too won't be fully possible if we don't solve the biggest problems in sports, which is a matter of privatisation. That's why I think it's important and important that he be found as soon as possible. As regards the amendment I have submitted, I accept the explanation that you have given, why it is not accepted, with the gratitude that you have accepted this previous amendment to Article 123. Why? Because personally I think it would be very good, you pointed out in your reasons for not accepting the amendment, that it is necessary to discuss it, but at this point for justified reasons and credit for athletes who achieve such results and accept citizenship and games for the representation of another country would not be adequate. I completely agree with you here, but keep that in mind when you adopt sublegal acts. And also, I think it's very important and important that I point out to you, probably that there are some problems about showing the interests of the state in general, from local self-government to the republic. When it comes to the top scores of amateur athletes and amateur clubs. What's this about? It is very well regulated what local self-government, what republic, but we have amateur sports organisations and clubs that achieve top results, both in our country and internationally. For this reason, the state must also express the interest of those clubs and organisations that achieve extraordinary results on the international agenda, while amateurs are engaged in sports. I will give only one example of the women's football club "Spartak" from Saturday, which has been the champion of the state in the last five, six years and has achieved extraordinary results in the League of Champions of Europe, and only local self-government expresses interest and provides financial assistance, which is not enough. Personally, I think it would be good, I don't suggest that it changes now, but it would be good to have that in mind when you're doing a sublegal act. And the last thing I want to say is to you, Mr. Widow, I especially express my gratitude on behalf of the elderly that you have recognized and realized that we too can engage in sports and you are giving us an extraordinary opportunity, you are giving us support and help to have our own Olympics every year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48696	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The 132nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Jovanovic and Borislav Stefanovic. Does anyone want a word? Parliamentarians Ivan Jovanovic and Borislav Stefanovic submitted together to the 136th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The 138th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Jovanovic and Borislav Stefanovic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Goran Vukadinoic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48697	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, although the amendment's proposings are not in the room, because I find this 138th Amendment position 2 unacceptable, and it is badly explained. I volunteered for a reason to explain what project funding means and how it should work. Not quite by accident, because in my local self-government from the city I come from, from Leskovec, I was recently President of the Sports Allocation Commission, so I would like to make some remarks that a lot of people in sports would see, when they are engaged in sports, that sport is a serious thing and that it has a responsibility for everything that it does. Local self-government, as far as project financing is concerned, all those who report to the project must draw a goal, because it is not only local self-government from the budget to approve the funds and not to answer to anyone for it. I also think that all those who enter the city's budget, specifically the city of Leskovec, should be free membership fees, because if, again, I take our example, the town of Leskovec, because if almost 95% of the funding from the budget is intended for athletes, then none of the sports workers or organisations are trying to find a donor or anything, but it's just waiting directly for project funding and when it gets that money - it spends them. Just to get back to sports available to everyone, I suggest they be free membership fees. What I could do for sports in the city of Leskovac is specifically separate sports from certain things, where sports should only be done by athletes, or by the sport part. In the other part - match organization, specifically by transport, we from local self-government specifically single out about nine million dinars for transport that also appeared through project financing, or when people have games, or when clubs have games, they say the destination as far as they go and we approve buses, so we're sure that this team or this organization will go to the competition. Then, we introduced a free medical examination. About a million and a half dinars are set aside for a free medical examination. What I would like in the coming period for our city and other cities and municipalities in the Republic of Serbia to do is that in all the clubs, when they report for project financing, that the commission from the city's budget pays for quotations, judicial costs and everything else, so that they know that this club will not go into the dubiosis and will pay for these costs and function normally. It happened from project funding when clubs reported, that much more funds were required and requested. That's why they spend a lot of money, for example. These financial resources to other accounts, i.e. for other purposes, such as bar bills or anything, so that some clubs are left without paid court expenses so they can't go on trips, and somewhere, even some clubs fail because of that. That's why I'd like to appeal to you from the Ministry, first of all to you, Minister, if you had this in the next period and to look at it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48698	Thank you. On what grounds, colleague Markovic? You can't, you've wasted your time. (Jovan Markovic, from the post: Time of the parliamentary group. You can't. It's a waste of time. (Jovan Markovic, from the post: and the authorised representative? ) Both the authorized and the MPs' groups. You've spent it all, believe me. National MPs Natasa Vučković, Dejan Nikolic, Jovan Markovic, Vesna Martinović, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Dragan Sutanovac and Vesna Marjanovic submitted the amendment together. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48699	Your Honors Minister, I'm really sorry that the services have determined that I've wasted my time, but we need to check that out. I think I still have to have time. A very important topic is program funding. I wanted to say a few sentences in that sense, what kind of concept should I be busy with and what attention should be paid to. So this article 145 is, to me, very important. I think you've missed an opportunity to specify the role of all the players as far as sports facilities are concerned. I have tried through this amendment for Article 2(5)'s position, which says that a sports facility, next to a space intended for sports activities, can also have a space to follow, so you can state what that space is following. I believe that the word "can" should be deleted and that it gives one binding form to all who plan to build a sports facility or use them or put them into the function of sport competitions. I want to take advantage of the opportunity in this address, I get a lot of messages concerning this debate and a lot of people I respect and who have done a lot for sport, especially in Uzic, one of them is this friend who has appeared and who feels that the opportunity to resolve the issue and privatisation through this law has been missed, that the opportunity to give through this law the opportunity and opportunity for all those people who would invest in sports to make it easier in donations, in taxes and in any other way helps to invest and that they have interest. It says approximately, and it's the impression that everyone here is considering some side issues and that the main topics have remained on the sidelines. Have I run out of time?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48700	Yes, my colleague Markovic. I'd just like to ask you, colleague Markovic, that before you raise any suspicions like this publicly, check with the service how much time you've spent. (Jovan Markovic, from the place: How do I check? You can come right now. Here's where the records are kept. At any moment in real time, you can come and check it out, because if you question that I've denied you something, the right MP, that's exactly what you've raised because I've warned you that you don't have any more time, as an MP group, please, before you give any doubt or confidence that someone has denied something to you as a MP, please check immediately at the service. In real time, you have opportunities. The word is made by Minister Vanja Udovicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48701	Thank you for your constructive discussion. I don't think I'd agree with you if we were here today discussing side issues. There may be side issues for someone watching this, but we are discussing the amendments that have been submitted today and I don't see that this is a side topic, but I think that every amendment is extremely important to improve the system of sports. He wouldn't agree that something side-by-side, left aside, or something matches the side-by-side. Compared to your amendment to Article 145, it is not in accordance with the law governing the planning and construction of buildings. What would happen if we threw out "can be", that would mean that the sports facility must also contain the following objects. This means that if we were to build a threem track, threem tracks would have to have following objects – a locker room, a wet knot, which is not an idea. If we were to build an open multi-functional field, which is considered a sports object, it would also mean that it would have to have stands etc. We agree on your idea, but I think there's been a mix-up because we have to cover more, under the sports facility there are three paths and open sports fields, and even the training halls that are being made. Why would they have to have stands? They have a purpose only for the immediate process, not for watching, and they contain all the additional sports facilities that must contain a sports facility. That's why we decided not to accept your amendment, just in view of the integrity of this standard.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48702	Thank you. The 147th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Ivan Karic and Mr. Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48703	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Our amendment refers to Article 147, which defines what sports facilities are of national importance. The 1st position says that sports facilities of national importance are objects that play a national and representative role in the development of sport and the preservation of sports values. In point 2. – the status of a sports facility of national importance is obtained by a government act, on a proposal from the Ministry, and according to the Olympic Committee of Serbia, the Sports Alliance of Serbia and the Republic Institute. With our amendment, we have provided for a new position 3 which would read: “The government is submitting an act under Article 2 to the National Assembly within 15 days of the date of its adoption. ” We have received an answer that I read, that it is simply unnecessary for the Assembly to participate in identifying and voting proposed objects of national importance, as far as sports are concerned. I also think my parliamentary group, that it is necessary for the Assembly, regardless of what you say in the next member of the government's regulation to be a form tailored to the Assembly and to be informed of what objects are of national importance to the sport of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48704	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Vanja Udovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48705	The purpose of declaring an object of national importance is that it cannot change its purpose. That is the basic purpose, and we believe that the Assembly should deal with the issue of the object's purpose, nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48706	National MPs Natasa Vučković, Dejan Nikolic, Jovan Markovic, Vesna Martinović, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Dragan Sutanovac and Vesna Marjanovic together submitted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Mr Jovan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48707	The Honorable Minister, member of 148, speaks of sports facilities of national importance, but we felt that this first position should be added to the social importance of the established government act, etc. In the second position, you say what objects are and what are the conditions that lead to that facility being declared as being able to be changed for purposes if it is not used for the performance of activities if it is not in the function of achieving sport objectives etc., etc., if it is in a state of maintenance which enables an adequate level of performance of these activities etc. So, with the proposal to add a term of "social importance" we felt that we should point to this problem why only national importance and what about all other facilities, again mentioning at the local level that are very important for all regions, for cities and which tomorrow in the privatisation process or in some other way with the carelessness of local leadership, again mentioning the example of Užica by who knows which way, let's say, that the stadium or pool you were at could come into a situation where someone tomorrow declares as a non-functional object that is not used for the purpose for which it was built and that we come into a situation where someone renams it, that someone uses from various benefits and needs. So, with the term we have proposed here, we are introducing the possibility that at other levels the importance of objects, that these objects that are in the function of citizens, in this case the function of sport cannot be changed for a purpose regardless of any politicality, regardless of any concept offered at some point by an area, or some city, municipality or region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48708	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Vanja Udovicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48709	The amendment you have submitted has a national significance, not a local one, and we really read it, when we say that something of national importance is social and national, so that we read it exactly as you do, and we absolutely agree because we read it when we say that something of national importance, or of national social importance to the entire Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48710	Thank you. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Ivan Karic and Mr Blagoja Bradic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the messenger of the people is Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48711	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues, so Article 148 says – sports facilities of national importance cannot change the purpose of the established government act. The next position says – the sport object of Article 1 of this Article may be taken away from the status of an object of national importance if it is not used to carry out sporting activities and sporting activities and to achieve sport objectives does not maintain a condition that enables an adequate level of performance of such activities, does not ensure safe use in accordance with this law. The government is closer to regulating the conditions, criteria and method of acquiring, i.e. subtracting the status of a sports object from national importance. We have added the view that the Government is submitting an act under Article 3 to the National Assembly within 15 days of the date of its adoption. And in order not to repeat what my distinguished fellow MP was saying just before my discussion, the more people decide to take the status, the more people think about it and make decisions, the less the possibility of error will be. I don't see why the Assembly couldn't, you say it's an act of government and the Assembly can't decide. The congregation makes laws. The congregation decides what it can and cannot do. I think it is in the interest of the public, correctness, accuracy and reduction of the error in making such decisions at Parliament level. Speaking of objects of national importance and I will repeat the principled debate, Mr. Minister, Serbia recognises you as a top athlete and you have in this debate maximum respect for MPs as a top athlete. To stay remembered as top minister, use the money to build a field across Serbia and change the 0.4% budget for sport to 1% and that 0.0005% for school sport to 1%. Then you will also be remembered as a good minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48712	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48713	Here in this amendment is about the government's regulation and we haven't seen it, and we've tried to find out if there's been any such practices in the past that the Assembly agrees with the government's regulation. We haven't found such a practice, and that's why we reject this amendment. Thank you for your honest suggestion.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48714	The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Ivan Karic and Mr. Blagoja Bradic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the messenger of the people is Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48715	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Again, we are talking about changing the purpose of a sports facility and it is carried out under the procedure prescribed by the law governing the area of planning and construction. Change, the purpose of a sports object or part of it designed to carry out sports activities can be approved if it meets, we add – cumulatively the following conditions. The first point is that it is in an appropriate way in another sport facility that will be built instead of an existing facility on the territory of the same unit of local self-government and that is, etc., we say that in another sports facility that is built, because you are predicting, so something can be done for a re-purpose. If we build new buildings on the territory of that municipality we say that if an object has already been built instead of an existing facility on the territory of the same unit of local self-government and which is for at least one category higher than the existing facility. We suggest erasing the views from five to eight that it is permitted to permanently or temporarily change the purpose of part of the accompanying space of the sports facility, including land belonging to a sports object provided that it is not a clothing, sanitary, theatre parking and similar space, that changes do not endanger the performance and monitoring of sports activities and do not reduce the functionality of the facility. Furthermore, the competent authority of the local self-government unit agrees and that a complaint by the ministry may be made to the decision of the local self-government unit's competent authority under the 6th member's position. We don't think that's good. That means we can alienate by deciding the local self-government parts of sports facilities that have general purpose and I think we should get that out of the law and erase these attitudes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48716	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Vanja Udovicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48717	They can't decide local self-government, they have to ask the Youth and Sports Ministry, so there's a solution, so the appeal solution, it's a long procedure for them to do it themselves. We have the view that not all three conditions need to be fulfilled cumulatively, that each of these criteria is sufficient. That there is a deadline within which to meet a certain criteria, because there may be a real need if one of the conditions is met and the other is not met. If there is no need for a particular sport in that city, local unit, local self-government, and that sports facility no longer needs to exist, or no one is using that facility anymore, then we feel that one condition has been met and that a re-purpose can be made. As far as erasure is concerned, I think the conditions and procedures for granting consent for a permanent or temporary change in the purpose of part of the accompanying space of the sports facility are clearly specified. I think the solutions contained in Article 154. The bill corresponds to the modern-day comparative solutions we have found, e.g. Austria, which is similar to the population size of Serbia, etc. Let's not spread. We really think that if one of these conditions is met with a clear procedure, strict criteria can result in a renaming object.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48718	Thank you. National MPs Natasa Vučković, Dejan Nikolic, Jovan Markovic, Vesna Martinović, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Dragan Sutanovac and Vesna Marjanovic put together the amendment. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48719	Dear Ministers with Associates, I thank you for your support for this amendment. I also recognized in the principle debate that the understanding on your part existed in the explanation of the motive for proposing this amendment. In fact, I felt that the National Council to prevent negative phenomena in sports and sports alliances that you want to form must also have those people who will work preventively to prevent such phenomena. I am an advocate, as well as many of my colleagues, that criminal measures can achieve certain effects, that it should be prescribed, in the end, all the positive experiences that are related to the various states and alliances that have taken these criminal measures to some of their situations, but I think that without preventive action and without involving people, and here we have suggested that they be representatives of the education ministry in some future period, we will not have long-term positive effects in the fight against negative effects and the scene at our sporting events. What I think is important behind Mr. Atlagic, I see that he approves of what I'm saying, probably because of that, is important for society to be involved at every level, especially in the field of education, in that through various advice, through various expert committees there is a common solution. I think the phenomena we've had in practice, let's see and testify about them in the last few years at our stadiums, are an obligation for everyone to join in that direction. I think this concept is pretty good, too, but with the support of these people who are going to work preventively on these jobs, he's being completely rounded up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48720	I thank my colleague Markovic. Col. Marko Atlagic did not throw you at any moment, and if you are a gentleman, since you have made public statements that he has not done, as you have publicly accused me of taking the time that belongs to you, I expect from Mr., the MP and the gentleman, to apologize first at least to a colleague, Mark Atlagic. The amendment was submitted by MP Milena Bicanin to Article 175. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Ivan Karic and Mr Blagoja Bradić together submitted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48721	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, member of 175, is in the area of criminal provisions and says that a fine of 500,000 to 200,000 dinars will be fined for a violation of a sports organisation or another legal entity, and then a list goes. We have suggested that in point 12) be punished by one who does not conclude a contract on the insurance of athletes, i.e. sports experts, or experts from the consequences of accidents during the performance of sports activities. In fact, this entire amendment to Article 175 refers to amendments to Article 23a, to 21, 33, 70, 73, 74 and 99, since these are all rejected amendments. This is harmonising criminal provisions with those members, so I'm not reading any further.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48722	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) The People's MP Milena Bicanin has submitted to Article 176 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milena Bijanin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48723	The Honorable Chairman, I'll be very brief. Mr. Minister, thank you for understanding this amendment as well. I simply, along with my colleagues, by reading the criminal provisions, above all, saw a very large number of criminal provisions, which put me in the belief that apart from the great problems we have in sport, we have a very serious intention to solve these problems this way. Article 19 provides for the obligation of medical examination or examination of sportsman’s psychophysical abilities before attending the competition. You will also bring a special act that will specify the cases when a sportsman within a shorter period of time should be exposed to a health check. In view of the spirit of the law, once again respecting the fundamental value of the principle, which is the value of life and the security of sport, I thought, along with my colleagues, that this criminal provision that provides that the punishment for offenders, namely the organisation, would be between 100,000 and 1,000 thousand dinars, would have to go to that higher category so that such a failure would not occur because of the negligence that could really put life at risk without connecting with the infringement register, which should again serve prevention, etc. So thank you for your understanding and for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48724	Thank you. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Ivan Karic and Mr Blagoja Bradic. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48725	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Ministers with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, our amendment to Article 178 suggests that we add point 10a to point 10a after point 10a) and unless the management rights are transferred in accordance with Article 92 paragraph 14. We were of course unable to know when we wrote amendments that Article 92 would be accepted, but it seems to us that now, since Article 92 is accepted, perhaps this new point of 10a is missing) where we are apostrophysing what we have defined in Article 92 of the new position 14, that the person who has a share or action in the Sports Business Society, who is appointed or elected to a public function or to the function of the political party's body, is obliged to transfer all his governing rights to a person who is not associated with him within 30 days, etc. It seems to us that now that you have accepted that Article 92, or Article 92, position 14, may be missing in this amendment to Article 178, this new position of 10a, in order to clearly define, i.e. have connected with this article in 92, and it seems to us that there is indeed room for satisfaction throughout this debate, given that we have spoken in the language of the arguments and that everything that is the SDP, ZZS and the SS proposed was intended to improve the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48726	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Vanja Udovicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48727	I want to thank both you and Mr. Bradic for the constructive proposals you made today and through the amendments, and the sanctions for this is nothing, so it can't be a violation. That's why we didn't predict in the violations, because this situation is causing nothing. Nevertheless, the infringement is not intended for other types of action or participation. That's the only reason we didn't accept your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48728	Thank you. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, academic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Ivan Karic and Mr Blagoja Bradic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Dr Blagoja Bradić.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48729	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, Member of 179, is in the section "Transitional and Final Provisions". We have submitted an amendment to paragraph 3 which says – organisations in the field of sport with social, i.e. public property and capital cannot make status changes, changes in legal form, except for changes in legal form in accordance with Article 71 of Article 3 of this Act. Since we have intervened with the amendment to Article 71 of Section 3 of this Act which has not been adopted, then it is without substance to explain this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48730	Thank you. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, academic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Ivan Karic and Mr Blagoja Bradic. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48731	I thank you, Your Honor. Honorable ministers with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, this is an amendment which, since I come from the Greens, when I discuss environmental laws, I always submit such an amendment. Practice in the good part of the EU that the law comes with sublaws and that practice from other parliaments, unfortunately, has not yet come into life in Serbia. It didn't exist 20 years ago, not 10 years ago, not five years ago. Finally, we should start to change that practice, to really bring laws into the Assembly along with sublaws. Sometimes it can be very difficult to talk about the law, and that the sublaw will come within two years, three years, six months. Here's the irrelevant deadline we're talking about. It should be a tendency for laws to come along with sublaws. We have tried here as the SDS parliamentary group – Together for Serbia, Green Serbia to draw attention to the chronic problem that has been repeated for 25 years from parliament to parliament, from session to session, that the laws come without sublegal acts. Very often we cannot properly judge the law or sometimes we can interpret, since we are in opposition, we can interpret that the law has no good intentions, and in fact it is not. It would be good if we started slowly changing habits and really came to parliament with sublegal acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48732	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48733	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have listened carefully to what the representatives of the party of the former regime, or individuals, say. I firmly believe there won't be so many after the election. This amendment is not acceptable because of the strategy. I understand she'll be delivered by 2018. What I would like and would like is for you to enter the following strategy, which is the words of famous athletes – to train your whole life in ten seconds, that's what Owen said. Just trained for a lifetime in one shot, in a fraction of a second, in one hundred seconds, in one piece of a hundredth of a second. This is the race Cavic – Phelps best showed. I'd like to get into that strategy and the next one -- I missed 9,000 shots, I lost 300 matches, I missed a win shot 26 times, but all it took to make it in sport, Michael Jordan. Next, I've lost more than once, but I've never gone to a game to lose, Michael Jordan again. Why am I saying this? Because our economic situation is such that sport didn't want to share the fate of our society. There are development leagues, I want this Sport Act to contribute only to the strategy regarding this amendment, that only our athletes go abroad two years later. We will certainly have clubs that will have revenues, and thus the state 100m euros a year due to the departure of athletes later abroad. I want to tell the athletes that, like Michael Jordan, they are committed, they have faith in themselves, they believe in themselves and after defeat, they believe in themselves and after victory, believe in themselves and after injury, believe in themselves and when others don't believe in them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48734	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Vanja Udovicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48735	Just to respond to the presentation of the previous speaker and the amendment. I'm used to being an athlete to doing everything very professionally and with a tendency towards the best in the world. After the adoption of the Law on the Prevention of Doping in Sports within six months, which was prescribed, we passed all the sublaws, even before the time. The current law has passed all sublaws, except for one, and we are already working on the adoption of sublegal acts because the system of sports is alive and it is necessary to bring certain regulations and sublaws to continue to work and not to endanger the first place of funding of sports, and then all the other rules that need to be passed in order for the system of sport to live. That's why the two-year deadline is just a formality, and I can tell you as Minister of Youth and Sports that all these rules will be passed long before that deadline. Thank you for your suggestion. I support your suggestion and how I accept it, because it is a common tendency for the system of sports to be better quality, and without the adoption of quality sublaws we cannot expect to improve the system of sports itself. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48736	Ljiljana Malusic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48737	Thank you very much. This amendment should certainly be rejected, because it is indeed a short period of six months for something to be brought, which is 30 new documents. So, you have to have the debate, you have to find the best possible solution to make it quality. The optimal deadline is two years, and this should be turned down for a simple reason what? In order to pass a good law and 30 new documents, i.e. acts should be consulted with the most relevant athletes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48738	Thank you. The word has a National MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48739	Dear Minister, I believe that the deadline you have proposed in Article 182. – two years of optimal period for the adoption of sublegal acts. The proposed law is very high quality and will last in practice, it will be enforceable, so it is quite understandable. You've held a wide public debate over the bill. You have carefully and carefully considered all suggestions, suggestions and remarks. Many of them have become an integral part of this law so it's quite understandable that we want to do these 30 sublegal acts, and what's important for the development of sports in our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48740	National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Dejan Nikolic, Jovan Markovic, Vesna Martinović, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Dragan Sutanovac and Vesna Marjanovic submitted the amendment together. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Mr Jovan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48741	Dear Ministers, honourable colleagues and fellow MPs, at the end of this comprehensive session, seemed very good to me, we wanted to propose through this amendment and to reduce that deadline for the adoption of a national strategy for sport, but we were informed in the meantime that the Strategy was adopted by 2018. Our dilemma was whether the law adopted strategies or the strategies passed laws? In our logic, it would be very good for this law, and through local strategies, alliance strategies, plans, etc. to be adopted as soon as possible. Of course, it takes time, but we also think we need to cut that time short. If we want to implement this law as soon as possible, then we need to combine everything and involve everything in these processes. I am also in the principle debate, and in the debate on amendments, I just wanted to point out that need to create this synergy between alliances, national levels, local levels, joining everyone and that these jobs are done as soon as possible. At the end of this discussion, I would like to thank both the Minister and his associates for their efforts and work under this law, and also in a debate that was very correct, that I also apologize to the chairman for perhaps insulting his associates on the subject of reducing the time for discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48742	Thank you. Ljiljana Malusic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48743	Whoever read the Bill's proposal writes nicely that the strategy was adopted from 2014 to 2018, and in 2017 we cannot do what the gentleman imagined, but we can do it at the end of 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48744	Thank you. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Dear Members of the People, since the National Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5) of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby determine Thursday, 4 February 2016, starting at 17 hours and 40 minutes, as the Day of Vote on the agenda of the Second Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-04-0.u48745	Dear People's MPs, before we move on to a decision, we need to determine the quorum. Please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 152 MPs are present in the hall and that we can approach the vote. I'm putting the vote on the proposal for an International Border Action Law, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – 156, no two MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Ten MPs of the Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, ZS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of - three, no one who is abstentioned - who has not voted with 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who are abstentions, has ever voted 165 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, ZS were submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against them none, the abstentioned, did not vote 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party submitted to the 4th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare: for one, against another, no one who is abstentioned has voted against 165 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, ZS were submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for five, no one, who is abstentioned, has voted against 163 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, ZS were submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, the abstentioned, who has not been voted by 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, ZS were submitted to the 11th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, the abstentioned, who has not been voted by 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, ZS were submitted to the 12th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, the abstentioned, who has not been voted by 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs of the Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, ZS were submitted to the 14th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, the abstentioned, who has not been voted by 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 14th Amendment was jointly submitted by Dubravka Filipovski, Velimir Stanojevic and Zlata Djeric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs of the Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, ZS were submitted to the 21st Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, the abstentioned, who has not been voted by 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th Amendment was submitted by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic - SDS, ZZS, ZS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, the abstentioned—did not vote, 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put to the vote the draft law on international restrictive measures, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no non-national MPs who have not voted for – 167 against – no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. Moving to point 2. I put to the vote the draft law confirming the European Framework Convention for Cross-border Cooperation between Territorial Communities or Authorities, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 168, against – there is no one with abstention, no messengers who have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Lebanon on the abolition of visas for holders of diplomatic, special and official passports, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 168, against – there is no one with abstention, no messengers who have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I'm putting the bill of law on sports to the vote, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – 165, no one, three MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Jovanovic and Borislav Stefanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not voted by 168 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic - SDS, ZZS, ZS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, the abstentioned—did not vote, 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, no one who has been held back, who has not voted 167 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, no one who has been held back, who has not voted 167 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic - SDS, ZZS, ZS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted on 165 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, no one who has been held back, who has not voted 167 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A member of the 11th amendment was submitted by the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not voted by 168 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not voted by 168 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Zika Gojkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for two, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted 165 of the Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 18th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions, but there is no vote of 167 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic - SDS, ZZS, ZSS, ZS, submitted the 18th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, the abstentioned, who has not been voted by 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 19th amendment was submitted by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic - SDS, ZZS, ZS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, the abstentioned—did not vote, 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milan Petrovic submitted to the 21st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one, who is abstention, who has not voted before 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic - SDS, ZZS, ZS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, the abstentioned—did not vote, 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to Article 21 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one, who is abstention, who has not voted before 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, proposed after Article 23, is the addition of a new member of 23rd, by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, the abstentioned—did not vote, 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions, but there is no vote of 167 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 25th Amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions, but there is no vote of 167 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A member of the 26th amendment was submitted by the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions, but there is no vote of 167 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th Amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions, but there is no vote of 167 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions, but there is no vote of 167 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 29th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, no one who has been held back, who has not voted 167 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not voted by 168 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A member of the 33rd amendment was submitted by the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not voted by 168 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 35th Amendment was submitted by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic - SDS, ZZS, ZS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted on 165 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A member of the 36th Amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not voted by 168 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 45th Amendment was submitted by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic - SDS, ZZS, ZS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted on 165 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS – ZZS – ZZS – ZS submitted to the 46th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 166 out of the 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS – ZZS – ZZS – ZS submitted to the 67th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 164 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS – ZZS – ZZS – ZS submitted to the 70th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 165 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS – ZZS – ZZS – ZS was submitted to the 71st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 163 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS – ZZS – ZZS – ZS submitted the amendment to Article 73. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 164 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS – ZZS – ZZS – ZS submitted the amendment to Article 74. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 78th amendment was submitted by MP Zika Gojkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted on 168 of the 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A member of the 86th Amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted on 168 of the 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A member of the 88th Amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted on 168 of the 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 93rd Amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted on 168 of the 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS – ZZS – ZZS – ZS submitted the amendment to Article 94. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 96th Amendment was submitted by MP Zika Gojkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS – ZZS – ZZS – ZS submitted to the 99th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 164 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS – ZZS – ZZS – ZS submitted to the 100th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 112, the amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted on 168 of the 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The LSV parliamentary group submitted to Article 123 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 163 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A member of the 123rd amendment was submitted by the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted on 168 of the 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic to Article 123. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 166 of the 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS – ZZS – ZZS – ZS submitted the amendment to Article 124. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 163 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 124, the amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colakovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 151 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 132nd amendment was submitted by MPs Ivan Jovanovic and Borislav Stefanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 168 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 136th amendment were submitted by MPs Ivan Jovanovic and Borislav Stefanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 168 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 138th amendment was submitted by MPs Ivan Jovanovic and Borislav Stefanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 168 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A member of the 145th amendment was submitted by the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted on 168 of the 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS – ZZS – ZZS – ZS – submitted the amendment to Article 147. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 163 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A member of the 148th amendment was submitted by the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted on 168 of the 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS – ZZS – ZZS – ZS submitted to the 148th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 163 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS – ZZS – ZZS – ZS submitted the amendment to Article 154. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 163 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS – ZZS – ZZS – ZS submitted the amendment to Article 175. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 164 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS – ZZS – ZZS – ZS submitted the amendment to Article 178. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 163 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS – ZZS – ZZS – ZS submitted the amendment to Article 179. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 164 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS – ZZS – ZS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 163 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 182, the amendment was submitted by the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted on 168 of the 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting on a vote for the Sport Law, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 165, no one, with abstentions, voted for three of the 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill of sport. We move on to a decision on the violations of the Rules of Procedure, which were referred to by the MPs. National MP Dragan Sutanovac, at a session on 4 February 2016, pointed to a violation of article 107 at 11 o'clock and 10 minutes. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, has voted 163 of the 163 MPs present. I find that there is no injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Jovan Markovic at a session on 4 February 2016, pointed out at 14 o'clock and two minutes to the violation of Article 108(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 151 of the 151 MPs present. I find that there is no injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Marko Djurisic, at a session on 4 February 2016, pointed to a violation of Article 103 at 14 hours and 10 minutes. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – has voted 148 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that there is no injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has considered considering and deciding on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 102. I hereby conclude the session of the Second Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Thank you for your cooperation. Tomorrow the new session starts at 12.00 hours. Thank you.
