ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52801	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to open the session. As you know, age is a privilege, and I'd rather be the youngest than the oldest MP here, but that's how it is. On the other hand, I am the oldest MP in this assembly, and the only one who has been an MP since the early 1990s. So let me say a few words, if they finish the gentlemen and take their seats, I will continue. I'm asking the photographers to leave the O.R. and allow us to continue our session. Ladies and gentlemen, we'll start again. I welcome you and wish you success. At the same time, I'm asking all my colleagues to do the session's work today. I said I was looking for a little privilege to say a few words and I'm going to say that and it won't be any speech. Given the fact that I am the oldest and the oldest and half-years old, I want to say a few words, especially to those who enter parliament for the first time. We are obliged to preserve Parliament's dignity. We have to protect him, first of all, and that's what's called a humanity, and then from the insolence of all the other parts of the government that we would like to usurp his jurisdiction and humiliate him in various ways. Therefore, I appeal, if we want to preserve dignity, let us keep it in all sights. We are gathered here people, his representatives and bearers of his sovereignty. No other authority can be above this power. We must be aware of that and respect that dignity. Secondly, let's respect each other, let's respect the Rules of Procedure, let's address the chair rather than any fellow Members, especially let's choose our words. There's not a thing that can't be said in the finest words and that has a sharpness at the same time. We need tolerance, because there is a lot of intolerance and hatred, and it is not good that, since we are in front of the mirror of the people every day, we take pictures, we teach the people how to behave, and the good work will be done by the congregation. I wish you all a lot of success in your work, preserving Parliament's dignity, full of tolerance for the country's progress. I hope you'll help me get this session done as clean, clear as possible, without a lot of delays and interruptions, and leave all the other passions for another session. Please first listen to the state anthem of the Republic of Serbia. (Intonation of the Anthem "God of Justice") I would like to inform you that today's session of the National Assembly, next to the MPs, is attended by members of the Republic Election Commission. I remind you that, according to Article 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, First (Constitutive) session of the National Assembly for the selection of the National Assembly president, chair, as you have already heard, the oldest National MP, who is assisted by one of the youngest MPs with four electoral lists who received the largest number of seats and the Secretary-General of the National Assembly, or his deputy. Please read the names.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52802	Ivana Nikolic, the youngest national MP from the electoral list Aleksandar Vukic – Serbia wins; Stefana Miladanovic, the youngest national MP from the Ivica Dačić – "Socialist Party of Serbia (SPS), Unique Serbia (JS) – Dragan Markovic Palma; Aleksandra Belačić, the youngest MP from the electoral list Dr Vojislav Seselj – Serbian Radical Party and Milos Boskovic, the youngest national MP from the electoral list Enough – Saša Radulović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52803	I would like to inform you that according to the information available to the National Assembly, the 201 MP attends today's session, and according to Article 105, paragraph 1. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 88(5) Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, there are conditions for work and decision. I remind you that the National Assembly at the First Constitutional Session is working on the agenda set out in Article 101. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 16. Law on the National Assembly and Article 4. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In agreement with the provisions set out above, the agenda is as follows: 1.Confirmation of the mandate of the Members of the People's Parliament; 2.The election of the President of the National Assembly; 3.The election of the Vice-President of the National Assembly; 4.Name of the Secretary-General of the National Assembly; 5. Selection of members of the working bodies of the National Assembly. Since the agenda has been established, and by the Constitution, we do not, of course, vote on it, so let me remind you of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which are prescribed the way and procedure for confirming the mandate of Members of Parliament in the National Assembly (Articles 5 and 6). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The MP shall receive the right and responsibilities of the National Assembly on the day of his or her term of office. Confirmation of the MP's mandate is carried out on the basis of a conviction of the election for the MP and a report from the Republic Election Commission on the elections carried out. The National Assembly, at the First (Constitutive) session, educates a three-member commission, on the proposal of the chairman, most of the votes of the MPs present. The Commission shall be chaired by the oldest member of these three. The Commission, on the basis of a report from the Republic Election Commission, shall determine whether the information contained in the assurance of each MP's election is identical with the information contained in the report of the Republic of Election Commission and shall report it to the National Assembly. On the basis of the Commission's report, the chairman of the National Assembly's First (Constitutive) session finds that the Republic Election Commission has submitted a report on the elections carried out and on what assurances of the election for MPs are in agreement with the report, confirming the mandate of these MPs. The National Assembly shall be established by confirming the mandate of two-thirds of the Members of Parliament (Article 101(4)). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia). Accordingly, and the consultations that I have heard, I propose that the Committee to determine the agreement of the Parliament's vote with the Report of the Republic Election Commission on the elections carried out be chosen by the MPs: 1. Katarina Rakić, selected from the Electoral List ALEXANDAR VUČIĆ – SERBIA WINS; 2. Marjana Maras, selected from the IVICA DACIC Election List – "Socialist Party of Serbia (SPS), Unique Serbia (JS) Dragan Markovic – Palma" and 3. Natasa Jovanovic, selected from the Electoral List Dr Vojislav Seselj – SRPKA RADICAL PARTY. I would point out that, in accordance with Article 5(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 5(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is not applicable. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, necessary for the Commission's proposal for education to be voted by the majority of the Members of Parliaments present. I am putting to the vote a proposal for the Commission's education to determine the agreement of the People's MP vote with the Report of the Republic Election Commission on the elections carried out. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for -204, v - two, abstentions - seven, a total of 213 MPs voted, 29 of the 242 MPs present did not vote. Since we have educated the Commission to determine the agreement of the People's MP election with the Report of the Republic Election Commission on the elections carried out, I would ask the members of the Commission to hold a session at the Hall and in the Parter immediately. We interrupt the work of this part of the session until the Commission's report is received to determine the agreement of the People's MP's Election Contest with the Report of the Republic Election Commission on the elections carried out. We'll continue our work after a 30-minute break. Thank you. [[After a break.]] We're going back to work. Did they all get the Commission's verification report? If they are, then we can move on. We continue on the 1st point of the agenda – I call on the Commission rapporteur to submit a report to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52805	Thank you. The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, was tasked by our Commission to compare the information contained in 250 credentials on the selection of MPs with the relevant data in the Report of the Republic of People's Commission on persons assigned mandates for MPs. Accordingly, by a majority of votes, the Commission, with two votes in favour and one vote against, has found that with the Report of the Republic Election Commission, all 250 assurances of the election for MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52806	Since we haven't been established yet... (Natasa Jovanovic, from the post: A separate opinion from the board session, according to the Rules of Procedure? I beg you, there's time to talk about it too. We haven't even taken an oath yet. I'm not in any condition to give you my word, but you'll get it as soon as we start. I'm asking the reporters to leave the O.R. According to Article 27, paragraph 5. Law on the selection of Members of Parliament and of Members of Parliament 6. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on the basis of a report by the Commission to establish the consent of the Parliament of People's Parliament to the Report of the Republic Election Commission on the elections carried out, I find that all 250 assurances of the election for MPs are in agreement with the Report of the Republic Election Commission on the elections carried out, confirming the mandate of all MPs. Since the term of office of all Members of Parliament has been confirmed, pursuant to Article 101(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, has been established. I'm asking the reporters to leave the O.R. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please agree to Article 17. We approach the Law on the National Assembly to take an oath. (The President reads the text of the oath, and the People's Messengers repeat it. ) "I swear to defend the duty of the civil servant in a committed, fair, conscientious and faithful constitution, to defend human and mankind rights and civil freedoms, and by my best knowledge and to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice. "I ask the MPs to sign the text of the oath and hand it over to the deputy secretary general, Mr. Branko Marinkovic, through the service of the Protocol. Let me wish you successful joint work in the upcoming term. Before we continue to work on the agenda, I'm setting a break for an hour. Thank you. This hour of break I hope that we will use this time to educate the parliamentary groups and to submit proposals for the president, vice president, the secretary general and the members and deputies of members of the working bodies of the National Assembly. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I apologize for this delay, but it was necessary to consult the heads of the parliamentary groups, which usually take a long time. However, this opportunity has resulted in some normal consent, so we can continue our work. I am informing you of the establishment of the parliamentary groups. According to Article 22. Rules of Procedure, the following parliamentary groups have been established: The Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group - for the president of the parliamentary group, the MP Dr. Aleksandar Martinović was appointed as his deputy MP, Dr. Vladimir Orlic; the Socialist Party of Serbia (SPS) – the MP of the MP Dr. Ivica Dačić was sent to the MP, and for his deputy National MP, Aleksandar Antic; the MP group of the Serbian Radical Party – for the president of the parliamentary group Saka Radulović was sent by the MP, Dr. Vojislav Seselj, and for his deputy MP, the National MP Nemanja Sarović; the MP group of the MP was Dobr – for the president of the Smak group of the Smak group. We continue to work on the agenda and move on to the 2nd item of the agenda – THE CHOICE OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE PEOPLE'S COMMUNITY. I would like to inform you that in accordance with Article 9. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly should be submitted and I have received one proposal from the National Assembly President. The proposal has been delivered to you. As you have seen, National Assembly Speaker Maja Gojkovic, elected from the election list ALEXANDAR VUČIĆ – Serbia wins. I remind you, according to Article 9, paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the proposing representative, can explain the proposal. Does the proposing representative want to explain the candidate's proposal for National Assembly President? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52808	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the SNS Parliamentary Group, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, the United People's Party of Retirement of Serbia, the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, New Serbia, the Socialist Movement, the People's Peasants' Party and the United Peasants' Party for President of the National Assembly, proposed to Mrs Maju Gojkovic, who also served in the meeting of the National Assembly, which was elected in 2014. We believe that Mrs Maja Gojkovic has performed in a quality way one of the most important functions in the country, the post of president or president of the National Assembly. We believe that at a time when she was president of the National Assembly, the National Assembly passed very important laws that have improved the lives of citizens of the Republic of Serbia in all areas of social life. What is important to point out, I think that Mrs Maja Gojkovic, with the way she led the National Assembly sessions, has greatly honored the work of the National Assembly, that she has given this highest representative home in the Republic of Serbia its dignity and reputation. Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, when elected president of the National Assembly, will have at least three tasks ahead of her. Its first task and task for all of us who vote for its election will be to create such a legal framework in the Republic of Serbia that will allow us to continue in the next four years with a policy of major reforms in all areas of social life and to format Serbian society in the legal, political, economic and cultural sense in such a way that in the next four years Serbia will be a normal, decent country, a country in which there will be many more jobs, a country in which there will be much more investment, a country in which we will have a better quality education, a better health system, a better judiciary. So, a country that will be better than it is now, as Serbia is now better than the moment it was taken over by the Serbian Progressive Party. The second task of the National Assembly and the assembly majority will be to pass such laws that will advance the legal order of the Republic of Serbia, to put even more emphasis on the rule of law, on one uncompromising fight against crime and corruption. Unfortunately, Serbia has since 2000, been the scene of unprecedented crime, unprecedented corruption, poor privatisation, and all of this has left a mark, primarily in the Serbian economy. Her work and the work of all of us who support her will be to pass such laws that will allow Serbia to have GDP growth to that extent in the coming year to be the best country in Europe, including all EU countries. The RS government policy, a policy led by Aleksandar Vukic, has already yielded its results. The citizens in the elections and the results recognized we want to continue with such a policy. The RS government, which will be formed in the coming days, will have a parliamentary majority of allies to reform our economy, further reform it, and Serbia will indeed be an economic leader in the Balkans over the next four years. The third task, a very important president of the National Assembly and the assembly majority, will be to ensure that Serbia continues to be a state that is politically stable. We do not want the streets of Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis, Kragujevac, Subotica, any city and municipality in Serbia, happening today, unfortunately, in Skopje, Banja Luka, Podgorica, so we want peace in the country. We want all our political disputes resolved by political dialogue here, in parliament, not on the street. Whenever problems were solved politically on the street, then no problem was solved, but additional problems were created. Unlike some political parties that have announced in time that if they do not win the elections, in Serbia to rule the Ukrainian scenario, Ms. Maja Gojkovic, the SNS Parliamentary Group, the RS government, will do their utmost to ensure that neither the Ukrainian nor the Montenegrin nor any other scenario that will challenge the country's political stability, the security of citizens, property and economy are not in Serbia. So we want full political stability of the Republic of Serbia, political stability of the Republic of Serbia, political security for its citizens. We want the Republic of Serbia to continue to have such a policy for the next four years, of course, as far as it stands for the National Assembly as a state body that makes laws, which will allow us to make Serbian society such that in the next four years we meet all the standards that are necessary to become a full member of the EU and, on the other hand, to maintain the best possible relations with the Russian Federation, with China and with all other strategic partners of Serbia in the world. Serbia will never and under any pressures impose sanctions on the Russian Federation and we will not interrupt good relations between political, economic and each other in the world with our friends. We have shown that one balanced, one wise, one rational policy can be managed, a policy where there is no room for too much emotion, but in which there is certainly room for the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We are deeply convinced that it is our economic interest, that it is our security interest, that it is our political interest to be part of the EU. Of course, whether we will be part of the EU does not depend solely on the Republic of Serbia, it depends well on the situation that is in the EU. If you could see, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, MPs, did not raise a great deal of halabuque about why Croatia is blocking the opening of negotiating chapters 23. We have thus shown a clear message to Brussels and EU member states, we want to become part of the EU, but we do not want to ask anyone to give mercy. We are not asking for any charity, if you want to open chapters, if you do not have to open them, we have done what is up to us to open chapters, because it is in our interest, not in the interests of the Germans, the English, the Italians or the French that we have a better judiciary, that we have court proceedings that are ending faster, that we have citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are much easier, more rationally they can come to justice than they are now the case. It is in our interest to further improve human and minority rights. In this sense, the SNS and the parliamentary group, the government of the Republic of Serbia's conscience is completely clean. That's why we didn't react when the Croats said they were blocking our negotiations, nor did we look forward to blocking those negotiations. We are doing what we think is good for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and each other, let the EU member states do what they think is best for them. On the other hand, we are deeply aware of the fact that in Russia, China, we have sincere friends, partners, both in political and economic and security terms, and there is no force that will force us to end good and friendly relations with these countries. So we have shown that one policy can be run which is rational when it comes to foreign policy and which is in the interest of all RS citizens. We have shown that the policy that allowed Serbia to be an independent and independent state can be run in the 19th century. We've shown that in a conflict of great forces, we don't have to be the ones who always pull out the thick end. We have shown that we understand that it is not up to Serbia and us Serbs the fate of the world and that it is not up to us the fate of world politics, but that the fate of Serbia and its citizens depend exclusively on us. So we've shown that you can run a different policy. One policy, which was led by 2012, which she said - will be the end of the world if we do not join the EU, the EU has no alternative. The DS have said that the chance for Serbia is the economic crisis that hit the whole world in 2008, as we do not believe that the policy that says should end all talks, any dialogue with the EU, suspend all possible relations with the EU and turn solely to allies in the east. Serbia wants to have allies in both the west and the east, and we think that policy is best for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. What I'm trying to say is about the candidate himself. Mrs. Maja Gojkovic has shown in her long career that she is a prominent lawyer, that she is an excellent lawyer, that she is one of the few women on the Serbian political scene who has a huge political experience. In political life, Serbia has been present since 1990, in several terms it has been elected as a member of the People's Parliament, as MP in the AP Vojvodina Assembly, as vice-president of the Federal Government of the SRJ. In the previous term, she was president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and that successful president. I think the best Serbia has had since the renewal of the 1990 multi-party system. I am taking this opportunity to say that the SNS parliamentary group today will submit a proposal for the establishment of a polling committee to examine all facts and circumstances regarding the events that occurred after the closure of the polling stations on 24 April 2016. We want to examine all the circumstances, facts, pressures, political factors, regardless of where they come from, which allowed at least one electoral list to enter the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia by joining each other alive to get into parliament. If someone had told me that Bojan Pajtic, Sasa Radulovic, Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Bosko Obradovic, will stand on the same stage, in the background of LGBT population, I would say it is not possible. It turned out to be as possible. If someone had told me that it was possible to break into RIK, yell from the gallery – lie, thieves, steal our votes, and do not submit any complaints to RIK, that it is possible to physically attack the woman who is a member of RIK, threaten her, I would say it is not possible. Unfortunately, it turned out possible. We of the SNS have nothing to hide from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We want to examine all events that occurred after the polls closed. Let's see how it's possible for those who are declared left-wings to join together with those who are originally, ideologically, politically essentially "ljotic". Let's see how it is possible to connect the left and the extreme right because of one single political interest, which is to enter the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia by force of God. So, not those who beat women, threatened them, yelled, yelled at them to submit any proposal to form a survey board. This is what the SNS will do for them today and we will ask for all the facts and circumstances that allowed at least one election list of Dveri-DSS to enter the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, apparently contrary to the will of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We believe that candidate for the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, is the best possible candidate. She also showed it in the past term. She is expected in the next four years of major challenges, difficult jobs and difficult tasks, but I am convinced that she will successfully respond to all these tasks and all these challenges. As for us from the SNS, we will have sincere friends and colleagues, and I call on all other MPs to vote for Mrs. Maja Gojkovic's election as president of the National Assembly. (Milan Lapčević, from the city: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52809	I have to say, I'd prefer that the motionary spoke a lot more about the candidate, he had something to say instead of political, general issues that had nothing to do with the proposed subject, but I didn't want to use this right. Just to make sure we stick to the agenda. We now choose the president and it's our turn to talk about her, and there's time for all the other things, so we'll talk, we'll make survey committees and everything else, run campaigns. (Milan Lapčević, from the city: Rules of Procedure. ) So before the search opens, I remind you that it fits Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total debate time for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I should also add – if, in accordance with Article 97(3). The Rules of Procedure will be proposed for a long time, the National Assembly may decide on the proposal provided that the sittings are attended by at least 126 MPs, and now there are 225. Therefore, it is possible that if there is a proposal, we can hear it. If not, then I ask the MPs, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. The first to speak was Vojislav Seselj, and I give him my word. (Milan Lapčević, from the city: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52810	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we Serbian radicals do not dispute the right of the parliamentary majority to propose a candidate for the president of the National Assembly and in parliamentary democracies that is quite common. We will vote against as the opposition party, but we will vote for the whole package proposed by candidates for the vice-presidents of the National Assembly, because such an agreement was reached at the meeting of the heads of parliament. What I want to talk about here is the relationship of the executive authority to the legislative on this issue, what we heard on the basis of the proposal, which is unsustainable from the aspect of the basic principles of parliamentary democracy and what we must expect from the new president of the National Assembly, even if it was a very small chance to achieve it. The executive rule once and for all needs to be taught that the National Assembly is not its follower and that it is not the task of the National Assembly to pursue the political goals of the executive authority. The task of the National Assembly is to strictly control the executive power and every time it appears in the National Assembly that ministers are going through a warm rabbit here and that it is not known whether they are more strongly criticised by MPs of the opposition or MPs of the ruling majority, and eventually when they have been raised up on the basis of the debate, some basic position that MPs choose to vote. This is, in democracy, the essence of the position of the legislative authority in the legal order. Unfortunately, we haven't had it in the past 25 years since the multi-party system was restored in Serbia, but it's not the problem that we didn't have. If only you could feel some shift forward from one phase to another. Our problem is that we kept going back and forth. We had the most democratic composition of the National Assembly since the 1991 elections. There were no restrictions for the MPs. Only the duration of the discussion could be severely limited. Otherwise, in the ordinary procedure, MPs said how much they wanted, so when the debate was over, when MPs first called the question -- who's coming next? It's "save" in time. What time means. We're here to be day and night. If something cannot be achieved in time, it is done day and night, but not at the cost of denying the rights of the MPs. In that period, we did not have the kind of punishment of the MPs that exists now. This is awesome. The MP can be punished by warning, can be excluded from the session if he exceeds every measure in violation of discipline, but that's all. That the body of the legislative authority fines the members of that authority, members of that body, is unbearable because it is always the one who punishes, the parliamentary majority – and, Nemina, the degree of democracy's development that is seen in the development of minority rights. This is where the minority always goes through a warm rabbit. I had the opportunity to observe for 12 years with a distance the development of Serbian parliamentaryism, and that may be a favourable circumstance, since I could objectively approach it without passion. This is the officers of the National Assembly, the president and the vice president, who serve to drive fear among the opposition MPs. Ministers come, so they read lessons to opposition MPs, so they argue with them, instead of sitting down with their heads, and they go through verbal harassment by, above all, opposition, but why not the ruling majority MPs. This may seem ridiculous to someone who doesn't understand what democracy is, who doesn't understand the meaning of parliamentary democracy, and especially to those who don't know what the principle is to divide power and what its practical consequences are. In fact, we have one twisted variant of the unity of power under the prism of its division, and here there is a tendency for all power to be unique under the rule of law. We listened to congregation officials and presidents and vice presidents thanking in press statements how successful the National Assembly was, because it passed so many laws. Wait a minute, were those, above all, laws passed by the government or the legislative initiative of the parliamentary groups and groups of MPs, independent of the parliamentary groups? When we look at it, we see that almost exclusively the Government is the initiator of law making, and the Assembly is a flow water heater. And the president of the National Assembly boasts -- we passed 30 laws, 40, 50, this year 100 laws. We had this on the case of the president of the National Assembly from many parties here an opportunity to see, but it was all at the heart of democracy. The National Assembly is successful, which has already brought down the legal projects of the executive government, so it brings them back to the tillage, and it is a clear lesson, and the opposition MPs come forward and say, "It is not good for you." It is not the task of the ruling majority MPs to accept everything they are submitted to, even on their behalf, and as sheep, they simply insert the charts, i.e. these cards into the voting instrument and vote. The extent of a twilight of awareness of the importance and value of parliamentary democracy may most indicate the commitment to change the Constitution and as the first reason for the change of the Constitution to reduce the number of MPs, and that is what the heads of the executive government are asking for in this direction to change the Constitution. Then we would be in a situation where the number of MPs or the number of MPs is divided into 150, that the main legislative body has fewer members than the executive authority, because we must count as members of the executive authority all the in-house bodies in the state administration, both the ministers and the head of the agencies and the chief of staff, both these and those. The legislative authority must be as representative as possible. In the Principality and Kingdom of Serbia, the Great National Assembly had nearly 600 MPs, but the king was always anxious to attend a session of the National Assembly. In our case, only opposition MPs with anxiety come to the session. Someone's going to teach them a lesson about this, they're smiling at someone, so they're being fined, someone's not happy that they're being expressed, so they're being fined. It is a shame when someone who is first among the equals, and the president of the National Assembly is the first among the equal, a fine of his fellowman. What democracy is this, is this the rule of law? And worse still, the provision of a Businessman puts that money to be used for humanitarian purposes. It's hard for someone who's trying to benefit from that kind of money. It's damn money, it's supposed to be known, and it's never used for that kind of purpose, because it's humiliating to whoever that money's being told. We have practice here that the laws are discussed first, so the debate is being conducted according to amendments, so a voting day is being set. Why is that? Because the ruling majority is not disciplined. The ruling majority must at each session of the National Assembly provide for the majority and have the majority at their disposal at any time, because when a general debate is being held, or a debate in principle, and it is going through the amendments, and it is waiting a week or 10 days to vote, who is able to remember all these amendments? It must return to what we once had, to vote amendment by amendment, and who cannot stand to resign as MP. It must be endured, not by the National Assembly of Cloaks and Jackets, but by those who can physically endure the work in it. And who can't, can't. Furthermore, we have a practice here that the value of the MPs is measured by how many times he's appeared for the word, which is nonsense, well, did he come to the session. The authorities are pushing discipline over the opposition, requiring all opposition MPs to attend the session. They don't have to, they all have to come from the ruling majority, and when the opposition MP doesn't come, that's a political stance, and when the opposition MP shuts up, it's a political stance, and it has to be respected. In our media, here are a few years already, from time to time, a campaign is being campaigned against the MPs of the people. They're like this, and they're like this, and they're doing nothing. It's not true, everyone works, and the one who sits in the sitting, shuts up and thinks and works and maybe works the most, and it's not on the ruling majority to judge who works more and who works less. So stay out of this stuff. The people will see who is active in the congregation and who is not and thus be defined in the next elections. Imagine now that you reduce the number of MPs to 125 what the consequences would be. The work of the National Assembly would be formalized. And why 125? Let's cut to 10, so if the advances got 50%, five of them and five other parties. Or that there may be only six messengers, that they may have five votes, and the rest of them shall have one vote at a time. Then save the most. Do not save in the National Assembly, the National Assembly spends the least items in the budget, and in principle, it should spend as executive power, in an ideal manner, of course, no one has achieved it, nor is it possible in the present conditions. You look up to some European countries that have introduced the “Beach of God” over the Members of the People. Well, they limit the discussion, so you have five minutes in the Council of Europe, so once in three months you can get the right to speak, etc. It's a formalization of democracy. It's the appearance of globalism in the parliamentary sphere. It is essential to free the MP. If the People's Messenger is released, then there will be an abuse of freedom, but it will be temporary. We're gonna compete here for a month who's gonna talk longer, we've had these cases before, and we're gonna get tired of it, so we're gonna come down to what's normal speech. He can't chair every moment he goes into the word and says – go back to the topic, and I'm assessing whether something is in line with the subject or not. Look, serious people are able to keep up and talk smart, but it's hard for an average person to decide whether it's in line with the subject or not. Let him speak, if it's his right to speak. We had cases in Italian democracy that they were radical MPs, but they were left radicals, Mr. Micunovic will remember them there in the 1970s, if they wanted to obstruct the adoption of a law, they would take turns day and night after night after pay phone until they passed out, and some would bring "Capital" Karl Marks to read, and some would bring a phone book, and some would bring the Bible. Do you remember that? Now, that's democracy. And you who don't like it, suffer. Suffer until they pass out. (Ljubisa Stojmirovic, from the place: It is tyranny. Well, this is the tyranny of the majority. There is no tyranny of the minority in democracy. The tyranny of the minority is in autocracy, in dictatorship. In democracy, there is a possible tyranny of the majority, and we, the tyranny of most of us, are in a position to look at daily and need to put an end to it. How are we gonna get in her way? By liberalizing the atmosphere in the National Assembly. I didn't believe, you know, sometimes in the heat of a political struggle, and I don't notice many of the things that have happened, but when it's from a distance, it sometimes looks terrible. The president of the National Assembly must not be angry with anyone, he must not show anger, he must not show hatred. Neither must the minister. Who can do that? The opposition's MPs can do it first. Well, it can also be tolerated by MPs of the parliamentary majority, but those who chair it must not be tolerated. There is no need for ministers to be tolerated. The minister must not sit here and mock any MP, to pull him by the ears in a figurative sense. So that's something we need to think about. Of course, there are two opportunities ahead of us – to continue as usual and to boast that the parliamentary majority is successful, because so many liters of law have passed through the flow heater in a short time, and so have European, such laws, etc. That's not what parliamentary democracy is interested in. Parliamentary democracy is interested in whether everyone had the right to plead on the legislative project and deliver their opinion. In that case, it is unsustainable to share time with MPs. And that's formalizing the work of the National Assembly. And not every apostle has the right to speak, and it is said: He is a people. If the number of MPs is reduced to 125, then the natural censorship for members of national minorities will be double that. I've got two minutes left, Mr. Micunovic. I'm on it. Don't worry about it. So, there's an increase in natural censorship. Then we will have according to this new natural censorship only Hungarians in the National Assembly, there will be no Muslims, there will be no Slovaks. We now have Slovaks and Muslims and Albanians. Neither will Albanians if natural censorship is increased. Is that in anyone's interest? Or shall We formalize this thing, and say, "Behold, they are guaranteed the right to a certain number of places?" Well, then it's not democracy. Positive discrimination is always at the heart of democracy. Natural censorship is something that is not at the expense of democracy, as it is said, has the right to so much, so let it try to win so much. If he doesn't win, then he doesn't have the right to that much. We'll either have a liberal approach in which we'll exercise our mind-based principles and be able to carry out it by smart people, or we'll have a fight again. We don't care about the big fights, we're always ready to fight, and I'm telling you honestly, we're here to do the will of our people, especially those who voted for us in the elections and what they expect us to do. We will do so successfully, in one way or another, but we want this National Assembly once to change its essential role in society, to fully establish the principle of power-sharing and to put itself above the executive authority, not like this, to call upon the ruling majority to the opinion of the prime minister. You don't have that in modern parliamentary democracies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52811	The word is Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52812	Thank you, Chairman. This discussion today is quite broad and clearly shows the desire of all of us to return after this break to parliamentary work and discussion, and that's good. I hope that this mandate will mark a live parliamentary discussion, a debate, the presentation of different views, but ultimately the decision-making that will benefit the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Two years ago, when parliament was established and the current candidate was elected president of parliament, our parliamentary group was restrained. At the time, only the proposer's explanation was quite different than today. The work of parliament, the need to amend the Rules of Procedure, was discussed, about the role of parliament in Serbia's democratic society. We were not prepared to vote in favour, although as we are today, of course we recognise the full right of the list, which received the highest number of mandates to propose to the President of Parliament as two years ago, we wanted to see the president's relationship in those two years, in which way it will achieve the role that first amongst the equals that sit in the position of Parliament's president should have. To take care primarily of the minority in parliament, because those rights of the minority and the exercise of those rights can be talked about the democracy of parliament or society. Unfortunately, in our opinion, in the previous two years, this assessment has been negative. Parliament was not a place where there was always free to conduct a discussion. Too often, the president and parliament's presidency took care of how to protect the government and the executive power, rather than how to strengthen parliament and legislative power. From this proposer's explanation we heard today, we have not seen any intention to change anything. For this reason, our parliamentary group will not support this time a proposal for Parliament's president. Perhaps the only point in the reasoning given when proposing a proposal I would discuss is the need for peace and political stability to be achieved in Serbia. This is why I absolutely agree, and therefore I call on the future president of Parliament and her fellow vice-presidents who will be elected today, we will vote in favour of this proposal, because this is the agreement that we made at the meeting of the heads of parliament, to make sure that all differences in the opinions that exist in Serbia show all our disagreements here through the discussion that is being held in parliament. I agree that there is no need for justice and the right to be sought in the streets of Serbia's cities, but for that, of course, is the most responsible majority, and in the case of parliament and Parliament's president and those who create that atmosphere in which we will work here in the next period. In the previous two years, as a small example in which the control role of parliament has not been achieved, I say that just by doing the president of parliament it has been avoided that the government comes, as the Rules of Procedure now say, once a month to parliament and answers the questions of MPs. It was done only three times in a little over two years. Various ways have been designed to make this impossible, make it impossible for MPs above all the opposition to say what they have about it and what they think about the government's work. We would like to be surprised, last time we decided not to vote against, we wanted to see how parliament will be led, today we will be against, but I would personally like to be surprised and to see change happen, more respect for the views, above all the rights of the opposition MPs and to criticise the government, because if parliament is not the place where the government is criticised freely, without fear of punishment, then we will not have peace and stability on the streets of Serbia's cities. Having been announced here by the ruling majority by one initiative that needs to answer the question of the regularity of the election that was put forward the night the elections were concluded and in the days after that, we will support it, of course, to get answers to all these questions, but we will also ask for a polling committee to determine which way the state authorities are on the same night the elections were held when Serbia's state of Serbia ceased to exist in one part of the territory because, among other things, the state is the only one who has a monopoly over force. On that night, for several hours, the state gave up the monopoly on behalf of an unidentified group of people. Today, a month and a half later, we have no answer as to who these people are, who sent them there, for what purpose. We'll be looking for a survey committee to deal with getting answers to these questions. Here, I hope that the ruling majority will find it appropriate to form that committee and give us an answer here. Until the citizens of Serbia get an answer to all the questions and have the opportunity to get answers here in parliament, they will look for them elsewhere. That is why it is our great responsibility, that the tensions in Serbian society are articulated in this House, that we be the ones to discuss, which we may at some point argue, but that this debate is being held here, this is what Parliament is serving. Our contribution, as well as the previous two years, will be given to a constructive debate which, in our opinion, has always been within the limits of the Rules of Procedure. And we agree that the Rules of Procedure need to be changed, that it is necessary to strengthen, I say again, above all, the control role of Parliament. I hope that the ruling majority and parliament president, if elected, will be on the task and that in these four years, or as long as we have time in this mandate, we will change some things to do something about the development of Serbian democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52813	There's a word from the People's Messenger Balint Pastor. (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: As a proposing representative, I answered if I may have a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52814	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to look back on just a few of the objections that have been made here. First of all, I'm glad the criticism didn't go ad personam, which means that we did raise the level of political culture in parliament and that we were discussing principled things, which I think is good. However, I disagree with some of the findings. As for what Mr. Seselj said, there is no, at least as far as I know, no parliament in which ministers are terrified of their parliamentary majority. There's a nice book where the preface is better than the book itself. British political theorist Sydney Lo wrote the book "English Parliamentism". The book was published in a Serbian translation in Belgrade in 1929, and the preface to the book was written by Serbia's largest public law theorist Slobodan Jovanovic. Then he, a man, in his style, in the Belgrade legal style, explained why the principle in all parliamentary democracies. He says – because the same party is represented in both parliament and government, only in parliament with its own ranks, and in the government with its generals. As in the army, an ordinary soldier does not command an officer, nor in political life does he who is politically above obey the orders of him who is beneath him. I don't see that there's anything wrong with the model of parliamentary democracy that exists in Serbia. In the end, when you look at the history of Serbian democracy since 1990 and to this day, I have not noticed that MPs who were at that moment were at most very much attacking the government. Governments changed, the composition of the parliamentary majority changed, but always the party that won the elections saw that it had the same political course in both the National Assembly and the Government. The question is what would happen to the state if the apriors now criticised everything that comes from the Government of the Republic of Serbia and if the entire parliament were a control body in relation to the government and if we were all against the government. I'm sorry, someone in democracy has to be for the government, too. We of the SNS are proud to support the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Serbian citizens have recognised, despite the difficult measures the Serbian government had to take, that these measures were beneficial primarily for them and for the Serbian economy. I agree that the opposition should criticise, but allow us who voted or who will vote for the government, that we support this government and that this government has political allies in us. I don't mind if you think Serbian parliamentism should look different. I think it looks what it looks like in almost all the countries that know that political system. As for what Mr. Djurisic said, since the government allegedly ran away from coming to the National Assembly, I don't think there is a president of the Government of the Republic of Serbia who spent more time in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia than Alexander Vukic, you thought of Alexander Vukic this or that. Every budget was explained by Alexander Wolfich. You said before each budget – the budget is catastrophic, the budget is bad, the pensioners' rights are denied, workers, farmers, students, there is not enough money, etc., Vucic must not come to the Assembly. The man was coming. Do you remember the project "Belgrade on Water"? He's like this, and he's like this, these yellow ducks, and somebody took the money, and there was no tender, and he's set up a tender, etc., he can't come to the National Assembly. The man came to the National Assembly, explained the law that enabled the implementation of the project "Belgrade on Water". You constantly, I must tell you, you deceive the public by saying that the government is obliged to come to answer your questions every last Thursday of the month. Yes, but on the condition that Thursday's assembly works. And, you constantly, I have to tell you, you deceive the public by saying that the government is obliged to come to answer your questions every last Thursday of the month. Yes, but on the condition that Thursday's assembly works. And that's what you laugh at, written in your Rules of Procedure. It's very funny. Yes, ma'am, it's very funny, but that's what you wrote in your Rules of Procedure, not me. And as for the punishment of the People's Messengers, so we'll change the Rules of Procedure, slowly we can't do it all at once, you've left a lot of weeds behind, we can't root out everything in two years. As for the punishment of the MPs, I can say I may be subjective, if anyone was tolerant to the MPs in the last meeting, was Mrs. Maja Gojkovic and were vice presidents running for the SNS. For Igor Bečić, you pronounced the most serious possible insults – the bastard, the bastard, the cattle, etc. How many of you got a fine? I received a fine from Igor Bečić, and I have no problem with that, and you are asking yourself, who today are talking about punishing the MPs who until 2012 were the government in this country, you who were rowing and dressing both in Vojvodina and at the level of Serbia and in all units of local self-government, did not and Seselj until 2012, so how many fines were imposed when the National Assembly session was chaired by the lady from your ranks? Well, I'm personally fined with a more brother-brother of 3,500 euros. I couldn't say a word here, as soon as I pressed the button, I got a ticket. When did this happen to one of you? Never. This is where you pronounced the worst possible insults, the man gave you a fine and withdrew his notice. I don't know if it's two, three, five in the top of a fine's head. So, you didn't suffer any terror here, if someone suffered terror, the MPs suffered most of it, but we put up with it to the end. And the citizens are after all, you forget that on April 24th there were elections in Serbia, the people said theirs. You can think of us whatever you want, the people said their own words, and you got as many mandates as the people thought you deserved to win, and now you can snap, but that's how it is. So, Mr. Micunovic, I just needed to say this, you may not be in shape, but just to remind you, I, as an authorised representative of the promoter, can get my word whenever I ask. Just so you know.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52815	I'm asking you to keep the debate out of the context, otherwise we won't be able to choose the president, so that would be in line with your interest to shorten these debates so it doesn't. And now I give my word to Vojislav Seselj, two minutes of replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52816	There is one law that absolutely must be voted by all MPs of the ruling majority and then the law always has a differentiation in the National Assembly and is immediately seen whether there is a ruling majority or not. And at the adoption of that law, it regularly represents a way to bring down the government, although it is not so detailed in our Constitution. It's the Budget Law. It is an obligation for the ruling majority to vote in favour of the Budget Law and neither other. You have a case of a highly developed German democracy, a highly developed Italian democracy, and you have a case of a fairly developed French democracy that corrupts the fact that it's in the presidential system. So there's just no elements for some big dispute. You quote the author from the beginning of the 20th century who did not leave any particular trail in constitutionally-legal political theory, and the militaristic approach to the political sphere of society itself is more about going towards the followers of Mussolini and Hitler than about modern efforts of parliamentary democracy. The political sphere of society cannot be seen as a military organisation. Sure, but then it's a disaster for society. I would remind Mr. Martinovic, yet you Mr. Martinovic, I watched the worst possible words with my eyes about Igor Bečić, I think you were quite right that it was due, and now you are attacking others who are criticising Igor Bečić.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52817	Mr. Seselj, your two minutes are up, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52818	Here's another second, Mr. Micunovic. When he sat here, people remembered your words and just repeated them and you didn't get the punishment, and they did. Please don't, so we all know who Igor Becic is. And we know there's nothing nice to say about him.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52819	I can appeal once again to go back to the election. Here you go, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52820	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, well, Mr. Seselj, I remember that in 1991 you were carrying an iron stake to move Joseph Broz Tito out of the House of Flowers, and here I now see that the proposal for Vice President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia before the SRS was signed by Josip Broz. Now, if someone had told me it was possible, I wouldn't have trusted him, but it seems possible in Serbia. What I said about Igor Becic, Mr. Seselj, I told him about the past term, they're from Zoran Zivkovic, you might find it funny, but that's how it was. So some colleagues in the former regime have been told the worst possible insults. And when he was giving warnings, he took those warnings back. He gave me a warning, he didn't withdraw, I paid a fine of 3,500 dinars and Marjan Risticevic, I think he punished and ended up with the whole story of punishing the MPs. But those were rare exceptions when one of the former regime's parties received a warning. They could talk about what they wanted, criticise, attack Vukic every day, say the worst possible lies, no law is right, nothing is wrong, in the end the SNS has won the elections in spite of all their criticism despite a liberal leadership session of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52821	Mr. Seselj, but please finish this debate. I, with great attention, am taking part, watching this giant chemistry that's going on, but I would still like to go back to the agenda. Here, you have a word, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52822	Mr. Micunovic, you are my key witness here that I spoke of Joseph Broz all the worst when it was very dangerous and that I went to prison for eight years. And then Aleksandar Martinovic didn't dare write against him, could be in a pioneer organization, in a youth organization, in a student and so on. And as for our colleague Joseph Yosaka Broz, I greatly respect him and respect him above all because he is the son of the hero of the Soviet Union, the Light of Broz. That's why I appreciate him and respect him, and Mr. Martinovic doesn't know what that means.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52823	You're the one who caused the debate, can't you finish it? Two, three replicas, that's too much. Come on, go ahead, but no more. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52824	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would stand up to Joseph Broz Tito, Mr. Seselj, but I was eight years old when you were sentenced in 1984. How am I supposed to stand up to him? I didn't have any political rights, I was underage, but come on, it doesn't matter now. I mean, something else. Okay, I see the good spirit hasn't left you, that's good. As for samale, as far as the phantoms are concerned, the SNS doesn't have any problem with that. We want to examine everything that's been going on with Savamal. The competent authorities are working on this. But I can't agree with the finding that events in Savamallah have caused people from state authorities. Let the state authorities do their job and question what happened there. If someone under phantoms was doing something in the Republic of Serbia, that's what you guys in the former regime were doing. In 2001, you arrested former president of Serbia and the president of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, Slobodan Milosevic. At night, you delivered him to The Hague at Vidovdan. You did it all in phantoms. You've done it all by force. You did all this without any resistance in the legal order of the Republic of Serbia. Then you who have done all this, and it's a lot harder things than what happened on Savamala, now suddenly you're calling the state, which is supposed to be responsible for some of the phantoms doing something. And you who were protagonists of the "fantomic" policy now pose as the great protectors of Belgrade, and until six months ago that part of Belgrade was a dump of ships, there were mice, rats, etc. Now those of us who want that part of Belgrade to be the most beautiful part in Serbia, you're pushing the plungers into the wheels.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52825	It's been a while, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52826	You say, "Someone's to blame for Savamala." Let the state authorities do their job, just don't let those of you who under phantoms come to power with hackers...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52827	You're out of time. The word is made by the People's Messenger Balint Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52828	Dear Mr. Micunovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SVM-Party for Democratic Action Group will support Mrs. Maja Gojkovic's election as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We all supported her candidacy in the way we signed our signatures, supported that candidacy. As you know, our parliamentary group consists of two parties. In the past four terms, the Union of Duchy Hungarians has always voted in favour of all proposed candidates for the president of the National Assembly, whom the majority has stood for, regardless of whether we were part of the ruling majority or opposition. As for the other members of our joint parliamentary group - Party for Democratic Action, parties of the Albanian national minority, they will now vote for the first time as candidate for the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I think it's a big step. This was either a parliamentary system or a division of state authorities in a way that some professional, scientific articles could be published, and all of which, of course, is how colleagues expressed it in the previous minutes. Practice is, of course, like this or something. I hope that in the next four years, or as long as this mandate that we have started today will be a little better than it was in the previous 20 and five-six years, when a multi-party system was introduced in the Republic of Serbia. In the parliamentary system, the state power parliament is not above the government. Of course parliament chooses the government and controls the government's work, which is an effective tool. But parliament is above the government in the assembly system, and the assembly system operates not on the principle of division of power, but on the principle of unity of power. In the parliamentary system of state authorities, parliament and government must co-operate, there must be a balance between parliament and government, legislation and execution, or, as it is said in scientific literature, equilibrium between parliament and government must be achieved. As for that, of course, there is much more that we have to improve, and I hope that the years are coming in which we will make huge steps towards this balance between Parliament and the government. As for the government's arrival, members of the government's parliament, in the past two years, everything was the way it was regulated to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, the 2011 Rules of Procedure. Indeed, the Rules of Procedure say that members of the government come to parliament every Thursday when the assembly meeting is under way. So it's all done the way the Rules of Procedure was regulated. That Rules of Procedure was brought in two times ago. We hope that this Rules of Procedure will change and that some, that the opposition will have more rights than there are under this Rules of Procedure, which was brought before two calls, I would like to underline, so two calls before the National Assembly. As regards Mrs Gojkovic as a candidate for the post of National Assembly President, according to our Constitution, it is another function of importance that can be concluded from the fact that the President of Parliament replaces the President of the Republic in certain cases. It is a very important function, and I want to repeat what I was saying two years ago, and I was talking about the fact that the President of the National Assembly should meet certain conditions in order to succeed, not to have the candidate elected, it depends on the majority, but to have the president carry out the responsibilities, the tasks that fall under the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure in the jurisdiction of the President of the National Assembly. First of all, a person should be professional in the job, should be a strong person and within his political party. It should possess an autonomous personality because there are great temptations, there are great pressures and always the executive authorities on the parliament and president of parliament. These pressures, no matter what balance and co-operation is involved in certain situations, should be resisted under these criteria and the fulfilment of these criteria, we in the SVM parliamentary group - Party for Democratic Action, we believe that Mrs Gojkovic can be the successful president of the National Assembly and therefore we supported her candidacy and therefore we will vote in favour of her election in the day to vote. It is interesting to say, no one has mentioned it yet, that Maja Gojkovic will be the second time head of the National Assembly, that may already be said, but it has not been said that re-election has not happened to anyone in the past 20 years. If I remember correctly, Mr Dragan Tomic was the president of the National Assembly for the last time in two terms, from 1994 to 1997 and from 1997 to 2001 and therefore we can conclude that it is important that Mrs Gojkovic be elected today for this very important function. In the end, I want to say that you can always count on the MPs of the SVM and the Party for Democratic Action. We'll always be constructive. We will always try and try to make parliament even better. We will never carry out attacks on the dignity of the National Assembly. In advance, I wish you a great deal of success in this function and I hope to work successfully in this assembly of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52829	The word has a People's MP, Bojan Pajtic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52830	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I would not like to be in the skin of Mrs Maja Gojkovic today, because the presentation of the motion was more like the exposés of the Prime Minister than the proposal of Parliament's president. It seems that the parliamentary majority itself does not have enough confidence in Mrs Gojkovic's readiness to lead parliament in the way that it looks like a parliamentary democracy. But I would agree that Mrs Gojkovic is certainly the least bad solution, since it is legitimately the right of the parliamentary majority to propose the speaker. According to my knowledge, it is a person who has completed her studies, so she has not bought a degree, has not prescribed a doctorate and in a formal sense, her education is not controversial and in this sense it meets the elementary level of qualifications needed to lead the most representative body in this country. We've heard all sorts of things in the course of the proposing's presentation, stories about what the DS was doing, about how our country's development is, about how important stability and security are. I'm just asking you not to talk about the former regime. After four years, it is time for the government to take responsibility for what is happening in this country and not to talk about 2001, because there are more DOS parties on your list and in your coalition than on this side of the Assembly Hall, so from New Serbia, Mr Ljajic, the SVM coalition and from here I see several DOS MPs from that call. So, the story of the former 2001 regime is not a story that is appropriate in this parliament, nor is it appropriate to say that weeds for the government's mandate are being eradicated, weeds reportedly derailed by 2012. To paraphrase the man you've mentioned so many times, these days finally in a positive context, in this country weeds are watering, not rooting out, and that's what's the essential problem. I was particularly concerned with the proposal that parliament would be an ally of the government, which shows a deep misunderstanding of the constitutional position of parliament, a deep misunderstanding of the division of power. Parliament is not an ally of the government, not a government service. It is not the role of parliament to prove loyalty to any government or to any prime minister through the hyperproduction of the law. Valtazar Bogisic said in the General Property Code for Montenegro: "What is born, the time does not correct", and that is what happened with the laws in the previous period, at the time of Mrs Gojkovic's chairmanship. Dozens of laws were proposed overnight, a united debate, and afterwards, at the next session you had amendments and additions to those same laws. That's not how a legal system is built. This is not how a legal state is built either. We forgot to mention, and it is important to say that the President of Parliament is not only the first among the equal in this House. Parliament Speaker, according to the country's highest legal act, in case, God forbid, something happens to the president of the state, v.d. the duties of the President of the Republic. The President of the Republic expresses the unity of citizens and expresses state unity in the function and letter of the Constitution. The cynics would probably say there is no better person to express unity than Mrs Gojkovic, given the number of political organisations in which they are located. But it is a serious issue and we are in serious trouble because the ruling majority does not show the need to have any dialogue with the opposition, that there is a dialogue that would be appropriate for civilised society. It happened in the previous period that we had a discussion on the same agenda point about the budget, about "Belgrade on Water", reducing subsidies in agriculture, turning the debts of "Srbigas" into public debt. Well, call it off, then. Most people can do anything. Most people can break all parliamentary uzes. Most people can vote whatever the law wants. Put an end to the debate, because it doesn't make any sense in this way, through the Frankenstein debate, to tie up topics that have nothing to do with each other. The labour law was passed without a public debate, possibly the most important law from the point of view of the citizens' standards in this country. This is unacceptable and it does not happen in any European society. Therefore, such criticisms by the European Commission precisely from the period during which Mrs Gojkovic was president of parliament, criticism of parliamentary proceedings, criticism that parliament undermines the authority of independent regulatory bodies, criticisms that parliament undermines the authority of the Citizens' Protectors, criticisms of emergency procedures that are passed by laws, criticisms that the government and government representatives do not respond monthly to the issues raised by the opposition. The obligation of each responsible authority is to understand that citizens are the holders of sovereignty in one country and that each MP is individually here in a functional sense, in a formal sense above Alexander Vukic as Prime Minister or any Prime Minister, that citizens are those who bear sovereignty, and we are representatives of citizens. The government is there to be controlled, the government is there to enforce the laws passed by parliament. There's no parliament here to find the government and be an ally of the government. It's a completely nakaradically-set concept. There's no such thing as good authority. There's only well-controlled power. If there is no control over the government, then I fear there won't be much happiness in this assembly of what we will do, regardless of whether the parliament votes to Mrs Gojkovic or not. Mrs Gojkovic has allowed this parliament to also vote in the rules that have clearly been applied to the private interests of the people who are running this country today. The declaration of "Biograda on Water" by public interest and estrangement of immovableity by public interest, where it is obvious that it is a realisation of something which is the private interest of investors and their business associates from the executive government, clearly states that parliament does not correspond to the role defined by the Constitution and the laws in this country either in the Rudiment. Parliament's control role has been abolished. Parliament, without public debate and without awareness of the extent of the damage it has done to agriculture in this country, has also passed a law allowing agricultural land to be taken away from farmers and to be used by tycoons, based on a discretionary decision by committees in ministries. It's a principle that's totally unacceptable and that's the principle we'll absolutely fight in the next period. Mrs Gojkovic did not show in the previous period the desire and will to resist the executive authority and give parliament the role parliament deserves. We will vote against her election both because, and because of the fact that the parliamentary majority does not have legitimacy, and it is not because the electoral theft that took place on 24 April, not on election night, but during the election day, that legitimacy took away the parliamentary majority in this House. The Democratic Party, it would say, had no political interest in protecting the rights of those political parties that the citizens voted for on 24 April to cross the threshold enough to be part of the assembly. The democratic party from the point of view of the defence, the principle that the voice of the citizens is sacred and that the citizen is a carrier of sovereignty, reacted by protecting this right of parties which, I agree, are quite different from the Democratic Party, programming in many segments. I agree that even if the pragmatically observed, as often a policy is observed in our society, the Democratic Party would have responded that a smaller list had entered, and there were more MPs in this parliament, but it would not have been appropriate for us to inaugurate the principle that any vote and any list could be stolen. Votes were stolen both through the "Bulgarian train" system, so through the revision of the minutes, through alleged Albanian families who voted massively in the elections by signing a Cyrillic, identical to the whole family's handwriting. The theft went so far that Mr. Goran Bogdanovic, who is here as an MP, did not vote according to the record himself. When the votes were counted, it was found that the list he was on was 60, not zero votes in the polling post where Mr Goran Bogdanovic lived. So we have a man who can confirm with his head and chin how flagrant that theft was. The polling committee's proposal, and I refer to it, not because it's a subject, but what the promoter was talking about, and has practically set up this committee as a topic of this debate, which will only consider what happened after eight o'clock on April 24th, is ridicule and democracy, ridicule and this House, and it points to arrogance that is totally unacceptable. If a survey committee is formed and we talk about the theft of the election, the survey board must and may consider all the elements and all the circumstances of that election day and the days ahead, I agree. The parliamentary majority can vote and that today is Sunday, but cannot hide the truth that there is no legitimacy, that fewer citizens are in reality, and a significantly smaller number of citizens, voted for their list than official data suggests. I agree that it's not the most grateful thing and that we shouldn't resort to problems being solved, as you said on the street. Trust me on the street isn't coming out of pleasure. Whoever goes out on the street gets out of trouble on the street. Those who took what was happening in “Savaali” came out of trouble as an attack on their own safety and the safety of their family. On the street are those who do not have an acceptable attack on the independence of the District Public Service. Those who were robbed in this election also went out on the street. The Democratic Party, along with other opposition parties, will propose a polling committee tasked with considering all the circumstances of that day, the previous days and later days. We have talked a lot about whether there is a reason in these circumstances to even participate in the work of parliament when the regime is obviously caught stealing votes. We realized that the level of commitment to the European values spoken of by the representatives of the government is so low that such a procedure would cause satisfaction in the ranks of the majority, not concern, or concern about the institution of the Assembly, or concern about the fate of the citizens of this country. For these reasons, we cannot vote for Mrs Gojkovic. Personally, I respect Mrs. Gojkovic. Personally, once again, I believe that it is the least bad solution within that Corps of personnel promoted by the SNS in years behind us, but gentlemen forget the former regime and forget those opposition manners. You haven't been an opposition in a long time, and you've dominated all the spheres of this society. The only reason why we can't say today that we're, in a formal sense, dictatorship is that there's some kind of constitution and some kind of laws that aren't actually respected. We can't say that we're in a formal sense, a doctrinal sense, a totalitarian state just because this government doesn't have ideology. It is both left and right and in the same speech praises Zoran Djindjic and attacks the arrest of Slobodan Milosevic. So much for understanding democracy. So much for understanding our past. So much for understanding the way this country should go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52831	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52832	I knew Mr. Pitiæ was prone to lying, but if he had such a tendency, I didn't know it until now. I'll try to get in line. Tell me, Mr. Pititić, were you the main voter from Bodrum and Thessaloniki, and when you were head of the DOS parliamentary group, and when your main ally...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52833	Please don't bring those stories in.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52834	What did I just say? Is it forbidden to say DOS? ... when your chief ally in that business was, is that what it's called, Alan Selimovic, if I'm not mistaken. Tell me, what was the state of Serbian parliamentism when it was voted from Bodrum and Thessaloniki? What is the condition, Mr. Dusan Petrovic, when you throw away, of Serbian parliamentaryism when you entered here on October 5th with automatic rifles, burned down the National Assembly, brought out chairs, artistic paintings, when you were breaking into the National Bank of Serbia, into the Federal Administration of Customs with a sock on your head, etc.? In what state was Serbian parliamentaryism then? (People MP Dusan Petrovic throws out of place. You've got to talk harder to hear you, I can't hear you. So, as for independent regulatory bodies, the independent ombudsman institutions, Mr Pajtic, in the last session, it was the first time that the parliamentary majority or the National Assembly had considered and adopted a report by the Citizens' Protectors. At a time when you were the government in this country, the Citizens' Protector had asked nothing, he could say what he wanted, criticise what came to his mind, never in any media has it been published, nor has it occurred to you that the report of the Citizens' Protectors, who was elected in 2007, ever put to the vote. It was the first time in the last assembly of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. As for Djindjic, you had a chance, Mr. Pitiæ, to raise a monument or a bust to Zoran Djindjic. As far as Zoran Djindjic is concerned, we can have feelings like this or that, but the fact is that at the time of the murder, the man was the president of the Serbian government. The Serbian Progressive Party does not want any more in Serbia to happen to any Serbian Prime Minister, from which party to come, to be killed as Prime Minister. We express our respect, not according to what Zoran Djindjic was doing as a politician or according to what he was doing as Prime Minister, we express a pitet for the fact that a Serbian Prime Minister was killed and we appeal that this never happens again in Serbian history, that never again a Serb raises his hand. As for the ideological orientation of the SNS, I think you are the last, and you, and your colleagues from the DS, who have the right to talk about it. The Democratic Party was created, or its work was restored, you correct me if I am wrong, in November 1989. You have renewed your work as a classic party of civic orientation, about, in a modern political dictionary, the right centre party, because Costa Cavoski and Vojislav Kostunica were also in the DS and others who later openly declared themselves as Serbian nationalists. When did you become left-handed? You became left-handed by chance in 2008, because you were in a tight spot around most whether you were going to form a government or not. You've done what's called a reconciliation declaration or a fraternization agreement with a political party you've called the worst and ugliest words ever. And you keep talking about those 1990s how dark they were, how they were like this or like that, and then in 2008, just to make a government and just to make government in most local self-government units in Serbia, we haven't forgotten that. You have trampled all of your ideological orientations and all of your programming goals and since one party of civic orientation, which eventually carried out a robbery privatisation in Serbia, you suddenly, overnight, became left-handed. Is that what happened? (Gordana Comić, from the place: No. It was so, Mrs. Comić, you seem to have forgotten Ljubiš Saviæ Mauzer, you forgot your ox at the Palace, you forgot... (Gordana Comić, from the place: I forgot nothing. You forgot, and then you didn't even know, then it was your fault. (Gordana Comić, from the place: Nothing. You forgot that DS was in time, I think it was in 1992, brought so-called. A Sokoban declaration demanding the unification of all Serbian countries. Today, you're terrified of that policy. That was evil, that was the worst policy possible, and then you're telling us about how someone has no ideological orientation, and the cream on the cake, that's your political cake, is the fact that you called to vote for a list called "DVERI – Democratic Party of Serbia". During your time, the DSS called the minority a clero-fascist party of the Serbian Orthodox Church. DVERI are originally, according to my ideological orientation, let Bosko Obradović be angry all he wants, I mean, I've read some books, Ljoticevics. The genealogy of this movement is Ljoticovska. The names of their organs are Latvian. Their political light is Ljoticevski, which means there is no parliamentary democracy, no parties, no stocks, a firm hand, a reputation for Mussolini, Hitler, etc. And then on stage all together, Bojan Pajtic, Saša Radulović, Bosko Obradović, Sanda Raskovic Ivić, in the background of the long-colored flag, tell me Mr Pajtic, what is the ideology? How do you baptize this ideology? Left, right, what's the name of this ideology? I've never heard of such ideology in my life. As far as crime and corruption are concerned, Mr. Pajtić, you have done more of the Zulu in 16 years than the Turks have ruled those parts. The Turks arrived in the 16th century to Vienna and Pest, and then they ran over territories that are now called the Vojvodina. Less Zulu and less evil have been done than you have done in 16 years of your authority. There is no province institution and I hope that the laws will not be selectively applied, that they will be applied until the end and that any abuse in Vojvodina that took place from 2000 to 2016 will be examined. Why do I say that? There is not a single province institution that has had any budget, it was small, it was big, it had so much or so much money, and you didn't get sick of it. Budget of the AP Vojvodina, the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund, the Vojvodina Development Bank, the Vojvodina Development Fund, the provincial secretariats, above all, the Regional Secretariat for Science and Technological Development. Do I have to remind you how much money you gave to phantom companies in the name of some credentials, and instead of money, they gave you toothbrushes, syphons, etc. Mr. Marijan Risticevic and I here, in the last term, have read to you the contracts with the Somboro firm, I think it's called "Maranta", which you've given money from the New Technology Development Fund, I think that's what it's called in Vojvodina, and they've made a commitment to you, instead of money, to return the coffins to you. Now, you explain to me, Mr. Pajtić, what does the government of the AP Vojvodina, its regional secretariats, have to do with the description of their jurisdiction defined by the Constitution and the Statute of Vojvodina, with the burial of people? But it doesn't matter. And then you found yourself calling someone for crime and corruption. If I were you, Mr. Pittice, I wouldn't use those words. I would pray to God if I were you if someone hadn't knocked on my door and not brought me a subpoena, because what you did in Vojvodina, I don't know what else should happen in Serbia so that the same political class could rule the northern Serbian province and go so thoroughly, as it went with your hand.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52835	Mr. Martinovic, you brought me into serious confusion. I thought we were choosing Mrs. Maja Gojkovic as president, and you seem to be choosing Pitiæ or I don't know who else you're talking about. Stick to the agenda. Your exposure takes us one way I wouldn't want us to go. Let us choose the president, and all your frustrations, or whatever you want, mayhem, you do it somewhere else. We're wasting time, we're wasting endless time, and we're not going to choose. Just to warn you, I won't be working until midnight as you think, so you're obstructing Mrs. Maja Gojkovic to choose her tonight. Replica Pajtic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52836	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, because of such slanders as Mr. Martinovic has spoken, since I am a man who has never broken any law, and where I have taken a single dollar of state funds, I have initiated a whole series of lawsuits and when Mr. Martinovic recommends that I avoid subpoenas, he is the one who avoids the trial where I sued him for slander, other SNS colleagues did not do so. And Mr. Milovanchev also responded to representatives of the SNS, because I sued both the party and the gentleman from "Informer", only Mr. Martinovic asked for a change in the jurisdiction of the court by running away from establishing a factual state and I will banish Mr. Martinovic, all these slanders. You started with a hate speech, because this is a hate speech. Making so much libel, is hate speech, haika, and you yourself commended the debate that it wasn't ad personam and it wasn't an ad personam. As for the tendency to lie, Mr. Martinovic, I've been active in politics for 20 years and I stand behind every political finding I've said. For example, on July 25, 2011, you said, "They called me to move to SNS, but my answer was – no, because I am loyal to Vojislav Seselj. The transition to SNS would be an extremely cowardly move and turning its back on a man who is fighting in the dungeon with superhuman efforts, not just for himself, but for all of Serbia. So you continue on March 27, 2012, you say – co-operation with those who were created by stealing the mandate of the SRS is not possible. I'll never believe it. I'll never believe it. So you say -- between Boris and Tom, this is May 2, 2012, there's no fundamental difference between Boris and Tom. It is the face and face of the same pro-Western treasonous and anti-Serbian policies. So who's lying to Mr. Martinovic, that's what you tell me after this?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52837	Replica, two minutes. So there's no confusion, it's normal until 6:00, so since it's 4:00, you know we'll be working by 6:00. Now he's picking up a replica... (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: I answered. ) Previously on Obradovic, you will get the word only in order, but if the replicas last, then it will not end quickly. I'm sorry, just to announce that it's on the record, to extend the session after 4:00, and I'll interrupt when I'm tired, until I think it's normal for the session to work. According to Article 27 and Article 87. Rules of Procedure No 2 and 3. National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working and then, we will vote on that, 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to complete a constitutional session as soon as possible. So, this argument -- the sooner it ends, the more it's not an argument for me. So please, I'm giving my word now, and I'm going to give you a break to set up the heads of the parliamentary groups whether they're going to work after 6:00 p.m. and what are the reasons they need. You have two minutes and we'll be done.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52838	The Honorable Chairman, dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, helps all. First of all, I would like to welcome you on behalf of the Serbian Parliamental Movement Group "The Dvori", which is a new political option in the National Assembly, and we did not expect our first address to be a replica. However, given that Mr. Aleksandar Martinovic could not have missed on several occasions in his presentations instead of talking about the agenda point and the SNS candidate for National Assembly President, he did not also use various expressions about the Serbian Movement "The Dvori", from which I can conclude that the Serbian Movement "The Dvori" is potentially what infuriates, bothers or scares Mr. Martinovic or SNS. What is important is to point out that democracy is most in violation of the one who steals the electoral will of Serbian citizens, and just as the SNS was the bearer of this latest attempt at electoral theft and attempt to below the line, i.e. to lower at least three lists of opposition, steal their mandates, and thus increase its score in these elections, which she saw as unsatisfactory on election night. That's something else we'll talk about. However, this second, Mr. Martinovic, cannot really serve you the honor. Bringing the Serbian Movement "Dover" known for its anti-fascism, by Orthodox, Slovenian, Serb-friendly traditions in the context of fascism, is indeed something embarrassing on your part. It is known that our values have nothing to do with fascism. It is known that we represent exclusively the interests of a Serbian tradition in which fascism has never been characteristic. If fascism stands for family values, domestic economy and agriculture, over-indebted families and everything the Serbian Dvori Movement stands for, then you obviously do not know the concept of fascism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52839	The word is Sanda Raskovic. (Vojislav Seselj, from town: Replica. Two minutes. I haven't seen you. You'll get your word. He'll get a word later. Mr. Martinovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Sanda, I'm sorry. There are people here who urgently want to...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52840	Mr. Micunović, you violated article 107. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly by jeopardizing the dignity of the National Assembly. So, Mr. Bojan Pajtic, you know very well, it's not someone I lobby for to vote for. You yourself in the DS don't know who will be your president – do Pajtic, do Sutanovac, do Natasa Vukkovic, ask God who? So now I'm voting for Bojan Pitiæ. I have no right, I'm not a member of the DS. Something much more important than that, Mr. Pajtić, I have appeared in court, and I am, without a lawyer, on a lawsuit that you filed against me for my actions in public, where I called you a criminal, a liar, leader of the criminal regime in Vojvodina. Now, you stand up, Mr. Pajtić, and tell me if you showed up at the hearing on your lawsuit against me, or you sent a lawyer and you told me when I didn't sign a subpoena to respond to a lawsuit that you filed against me for what you said was "intense mental pains" that you suffered because of my actions in public.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52841	Gentlemen, you will all receive your word. I don't mind, but if you want us to elect the president, then I'm asking you to limit ourselves to a subject that's on the agenda, if you want us to finish this job today. Please ask for a word. You've said enough, too much for everyone. Let someone else say something else. Therefore, you rebel as much as you like, I'll stick to what's normal and rational to stick to the agenda and you have to stick to it. I'm just asking you to limit the replicas and injuries of the Rules of Procedure, etc. If there are, go ahead, but let's not talk too long. Let's give it a chance for others who haven't spoken yet, representatives of other political groups. What do you want, do it. He checked in with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52842	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Martinovic looked negatively and offensively towards Article 104. The Rules of Procedure about me and the party I belong to, so that gives me a basis for replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52843	Just tell me, is it a replica or a breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52844	Replica. I was looking for a replica. I'll use my time, it'll take longer if you won't let me speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52845	Please, let's hear it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52846	The longer you hold me back, the longer my exposure will take. So if you want us to end this point quickly, I suggest you stick to some elemental order and decency. Mr. Martinovic pointed out that he has no right to vote in the DS. I'll tell him right away that when the DS comes to power, we won't even accept him because he's prone to the ruling party, so he'll never have the right to vote. As for the court case, Mr. Martinovic asked for a change of jurisdiction, practically to change the local jurisdiction of the court and thus avoided facing us in court, but we will face it very quickly, as well as a series of colleagues I have already faced. As for DS and who will be president of the DS, I am immensely proud to belong to an organisation that chooses its president or president in a democratic way, unlike you, gentlemen, where more than 3,000 delegates vote unanimously for Kim Jong Un, in full violation of all the basic rules of democracy. So when 3,000 people vote unanimously, it is not that it is not a party of democratic orientation, but it is one authoritarian party, a party living in fear, and that fear you are trying to pass on to the citizens of Serbia. You won't make it. It is the Democratic Party and its democratic values for which we are fighting.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52847	Mr. Pitiæ, I gave you my word believing that it was a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but that the breach of the Rules of Procedure was then without replication. Anyway, you said it was a replica and it was satisfied. Now the word is Mr. Seselj, I think he answered the line. Mr. Seselj's giving up. Here you go, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52848	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, unlike Mr. Pitiæ, who invents and lies, I speak exclusively on the basis of official documentation, Mr. Pitiæ, and you press another 52 charges against me, I will always come to trial, I am not in any mental pain, I am not afraid of anything, just write the charges. Here it is, a solution from September 2, 2011. What's this lady so nervous about, what's with this book? Take it easy, you'll get the word. Decision on the granting of funding funds for the project with functional classification 442, production of positions 648, subsidies to private enterprises of economic classification 4542, capital subsidies to private enterprises, this solution is granted financial resources in the total amount of, now beware, as soon as I see a round figure for me there's something suspicious, round 24 million dinars for co-financing, watch out for this, it's modern technology, it's a miracle unseen, making coffins, to co-finance the plant for the production of funeral equipment. Mr. Micunovic, so you have one funeral home, you give him 24 million dinars. The gentleman has an obligation to hire 20 workers, except himself as the owner and as the founder of the company, he did not hire anyone, and according to a contract he concluded with the province's secretary instead of the money, he had to pay back, the question whether or not that obligation was carried out, a certain number of coffins. Isn't that right, Mr. Pittice? Now, you tell me, is what I said about Alexander Vukic and Tomislav Nikolic worse? That's why no one lost their job, no one's kid cried, no big economic damage happened. I said, I was wrong, I'm wearing my political cross on my back, and that's not your problem. (Vojislav Seselj throws out of town. ) So, Mr. Seselj, you are right, but you, Mr. Pajtic, have reversed these things from the province of Vojvodina to the extent that today, according to the resolution ministries, the most users of social assistance are in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, which, by all its capacities, would have to be the most developed part of Serbia. You have turned the most developed part of Serbia into the poorest. Why? Because you kidnapped, because you robbed, so you stole from the children distracted in the development of Mr. Pitiæ. A million euros instead of building a home in New Vienna for children distracted by 2012 has not been made until today, and the money has ended in private pockets. Is it true, Mr. Pitch? If that's not true, you file another lawsuit against me, I don't have any problem with that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52849	First, it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Who answered? The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52850	Mr. Micunovic, you are the chairman of the National Assembly today. I'm reporting under Article 103. The chairman of the National Assembly is in the role of the man who will perform, in order in the congregation. You obviously don't run this assembly right. All the time, all day long, we've been talking off the subject of the agenda. Today is the point of the National Assembly President's election, 99% of the time we're listening here about the coffins, about millions of euros, about the converts that passed from party to party, and we haven't heard anything about the person of the president of the future or candidate for president of the National Assembly. If you'll excuse me, take over the chairman's office, take the floor, give me a heads-up and bring this session to order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52851	You are witnesses to warn persistent speakers to stick to the agenda, as authorised proposings appear uninterrupted and do not speak of the agenda. It causes replicas, which are also not part of the agenda and it obstructs our work, namely the choice of president we should have talked about. I've appealed more than once, but obviously it's not worth it. I've got two replicas here now, first Pytic, then Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52852	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I am sorry that the debate on the president of the future parliament has turned into some morbid story about funeral equipment, some kind of funeral boxes. For 12 years, I have been in the position of the President of the Executive Council, i.e. later the District Government and the Prime Minister of the province does not deal with any crates, no funeral equipment, nor do I know what Mr. Martinovic is talking about. He may be talking about the activities of one of the secretariats or one of the province's institutions, but talking in the context of the election of the President of Parliament on mortuary, or funeral equipment, is extremely inappropriate. I'm not a undertaker, I'm not a undertaker. Mr. Martinovic has me confused with the founder of his party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52853	The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52854	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've already given up on the replica once, but since Mr. Martinovic mentioned me again, I must. I'm very shocked, I'm just mentally shaken here. Mr. Martinovic says he withdrew everything he once said against Tomislav Nikolic and Aleksandr Vukic. How is that possible? Gentlemen, does this mean that he withdrew everything about Tomislav Nikolic's diploma? For the first time since Aleksandar Martinovic, I heard that Toma had a fake degree, that he had won a degree, that he had not passed any exams, that at the time of his alleged exam he was in Strasbourg, etc. Please don't let this happen here in the Assembly. A man who is the source of my information about Tomislav Nikolic's diploma is now giving up. Leads the Serbian public astray. After we checked it out, it wasn't just me who trusted Alexander Martinovic. I had my faithful Zoran Krasic, who did not find it difficult to visit those universities, determine the dates, the exam classes and compare with the places where Tomislav Nikolic was officially staying that day. Don't let him give up his entire past so he can now pardon his party's leaders, he can't do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52855	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52856	I thought Mr. Seselj could hit harder, but I don't think you're fit. I think Serbian citizens now see what the SNS was talking about in the election campaign – when it is necessary to attack the SNS, when Alexander Vukic is to be attacked, as you can see, is very easy to make a coalition of DS and the SRS. Then the same is said by Bojan Pajtic and Vojislav Seselj and there is no ideological difference. I didn't say you were a undertaker. I said that you, here I will choose the most decent possible words, have embezzled the funds of the citizens of Vojvodina by giving your circuit secretary for science and technological development, and you cannot possibly know what that man was doing while he was in office, giving 24 million dinars to a funeral equipment plant and a man instead of paying you back, has the obligation to return your coffins. And not only that, you signed contracts, or your regional secretaries, your directors, that people pay you back instead of money, I don't even know what you were returning, toothbrushes, antifreezes, siphons, wine white, black, like this, like that. Ask God what you did, all that they pay you back, just don't let them pay you back, because you love money most of all. I, Mr. Pititic, have proven it based on one solution I have, which concerns what your circuit secretary has done for science and technological development. Unfortunately, such solutions have as much as your souls will and therefore the Vojvodina is in a difficult situation. And because of what you said, Mr. Pititic, as the minority is being terrorized here, how do you not have any rights, here, Mr. Pitiæ, at least be so honest and tell me that today my initiative has been called a meeting with the presidents of the parliamentary groups? Have we, and we didn't have to, given up two vice-presidential positions, one for you, that is. for your parliamentary group, and the second for Sasa Radulovic's parliamentary group, and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, instead of six, will have seven vice presidents? Tell me, when did you act like one? When you and the opposition went out to meet, other than punishing her, kicking her out of the O.R., talking about them all the ugliest things? So, we have shown in part, Mr Pitiæ, that we are ready for dialogue, that we are ready to change political culture in Serbia, because there is no need for us to be afraid of you. Well, you've barely crossed the census. You're a party that's almost a statistical error. Listen, the Serbian Progressive Party fears Bojan Pajtic and his party, which won 6.02% of the vote?- I'm sorry. A strong party and strong political power. So not because we're afraid of you, but because we wanted to show that we're tolerance, that we're different from you, that we can work on different criteria in this assembly than the DS criteria. So, Mr Pitiæ, from the SNS, when it comes to democracy, when it comes to political culture, including parliamentary political culture, you can only learn a lot.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52857	First of all, there's something amazing going on here. Aleksandar Martinovic is bringing me into contact with the DS, claiming that I am attacking Alexander Vukic along with them. I didn't even mention Wolfie today. I'm about to attack Alexander Vukic here when he submits exposés about the new government program. I was talking about Tomislav Nikolic and his fake diploma. Defending Tomislav Nikolic and his fake diploma, Aleksandar Martinovic questioned Alexander Vukic's diploma. Alexander Vukic's diplomat is indisputable, gentlemen. If there's anything in his possession that's undeniable, then it's an indisputable college degree. Don't make it harder to change. Here is Professor Ljubisa Stojmirovic, who took all the exams of Tomislav Nikolic, all the scientific papers, graduate work, master's work, started writing doctoral dissertation. Let him explain everything to you how he worked, and he's doing well. Now joint scientific papers are being published with Tomislav Nikolic. He's preparing him for his doctorate. So they have several joint scientific papers, two or three. Do you, Ljubisha, nod your head, is it three? So, where does he publish them? In Nis, because they don't know who it's about. They mean some normal Tomislav Nikolic who's really writing something. On the side of the quality of the works, it's just a special story, but it doesn't matter, Tomislav Nikolic doesn't even know how to write it. Do not change the thesis, define yourself between Tomislav Nikolic and Alexander Vukic. When I attack Tomislav Nikolic, you only defend Nikolic. When I attack Wolfie, you defend Wolfie. They're not twins, I guess, or I wasn't informed of the current situation in your party, or they didn't inform you. If you have not been informed, you are flying quickly from that post as head of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52858	According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Jasmine Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52859	I will ask the chairman to respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and point 106. A Rules of Procedure which explicitly says – the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. A search is currently being conducted for the election of the future president of the National Assembly. I ask you to behave responsibly, because if you are acting past the Rules of Procedure, you are wasting time on Serbian citizens who are paying for all this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52860	I don't know how much parliamentary experience you have, but when it comes to the debate, then we stick to the agenda. In replicas, unfortunately, people go out of the agenda because they answer some direct questions, corrections, whether they are true or not. But now you're attending something that people don't respect the absolute agenda and don't follow it, it remains a fact. I'd give... (Maya Gojkovic, from the scene: I would just like to ask you to let us know.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52861	Dear President, I would really, with great respect for the fact that you were once President of Parliament and you knew the procedure, ask you to pay attention to the Rules of Procedure that you have before you and that indeed Article 104, which speaks of the dignity of this Parliament, use some time, pay attention to Article 107, to the point of the agenda, etc., because it is impossible for one speaker, at least not so enabled, to say that you are violating the entire Rules of Procedure and so you will enter into the history of this parliamentaryism. So, you're right, and don't take it in a pervasive sense, if you're tired of getting some rest for a while. That's why there are our colleagues here who help you work. They are not here political icabana, but they can also, by the rules of our Rules of Procedure, continue to lead this session, and you can at some point rest. That's what all presidents do, give their vice presidents, and this time to the people who help you. Because this is all just not what the MPs were talking about when they started talking about my candidacy for Parliament president. They were correct enough and they didn't talk about my personality. Some say something positive, some say something negative, but that's why there's a parliament, not to praise each other, but to tell the truth about us, even though each of us sees ourselves in the mirror in the best light, but that's not always the case. But you allowed, of course, once again under the auspices of democracy, which I support, to talk about broad topics. The promoter began, afterwards, Dr Vojislav Seselj, etc., Bojan Pajtic continues. And we went into replicas... (Vojislav Seselj throws out of town. What do you say? (Vojislav Seselj, from the city: Give up the promoter and run for office. That's right. (Vojislav Seselj throws out of town. That's right, slowly, that time will come. Politics needs, Professor, and patience. That's what we learned. But, please, let's get back to the agenda and please use the right business so the replicas can't go indefinitely.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52862	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52863	And I ask, if possible, that in this part of the session we vote on it...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52864	You're done.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52865	I'm sorry, I have to finish. So, let's vote on you hurting the Rules of Procedure. That's possible, and I'm asking the MPs to turn themselves in and vote whether you hurt the Rules of Procedure or not. I am very well-intentioned, and I do not think that parliament resembles what the opposition MPs spoke of in the previous part of this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52866	Mrs. Gojkovic, I'm sorry, but you should know that I don't work under pressure, never, not now. I know I may not be as much of a chair to you as I am, but it would be good if you'd advised your promoter to focus more on your strengths which here will recommend you as president instead of dealing with other political parties. So what you're transferring to me would be better, it's closer to you now, if you did it to Mr. Martinovic. Secondly, as far as fatigue is concerned, I'm not tired and, as you can see, I'm not moving from here and I can stay until morning and that's not the point. It's not about that, it's about the dignity of the Assembly, that I don't let anything get out of hand and then at midnight, when people are asleep and no one's watching, then we pick you in the dark. You don't deserve to be elected in the dark at one o'clock in the morning, but when it's time, while we're working, six hours, seven, when all the viewers are watching it. So, don't worry about my condition, she, I have to surprise you, as you can see, I'm sitting here uninterrupted and sitting as long as I need to, but I appeal once again, I expected this to be a constitutive session and that everyone would be glad to end it in tolerance and peace. There was a meeting with the heads of Parliament, and we agreed, and it seemed like it was going to end normally, but obviously I don't know what motive or passion we're extending this forever. That's the whole story. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52867	I hope you won't stop me from speaking today at the session. I'm just a candidate. You have now threatened, therefore, Article 7 paragraph 1 because you have compromised the dignity of the National Assembly by your comment. Your task was to answer me if you had broken or not members of the Rules of Procedure that I quoted, one, and two, if you wanted to enter the controversy with me, in a replica, you had to log out of the chair seat, sit in the benches of your MPs and answer me whatever you wanted. I am not asking anyone at all to be politically likable or unsympathetic because there are no such categories in politics at all, and if I am going to get the trust of most MPs in this House, we will see that when the vote comes in line. If you thought you were talking about me, you were supposed to sign up, and if you thought you were using the chairman's seat today to say what you thought about me and the chairman, then you should have given that place to one of your assistants today. I also ask that votes be voted on on this breach of the Rules of Procedure because you are doing everything your MPs have asked me not to do in the future, if I have done at all in the last term. So, you're here to make order in this House, you shouldn't be ashamed of it. You must have the same arches to the opposition and to the ruling majority. There are no likable and less likable MPs, especially not today when it is a constitutive session. I should never have, I understood that at least from previous speakers, those who won't vote for me today, but they have time to change their minds because I'm going to prove that I'm a good candidate for Parliament's president. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52868	Do you, Mrs. Gojkovic, want the Assembly to declare the injury of the Rules of Procedure? (Maya Gojkovic, from the place: Yes, both about this and the previous. I believe that there has been no breach of the Rules of Procedure, but is the best intention for the Assembly to deal with the agenda and to carry out the task it has been given today. Now I give my word to Alexandra Jerkov. Replication or breach of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52869	The microphone isn't operational. ) Infringement of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Maja Gojkovic has abused Article 103. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly because she asked for a word in which she had never given a word to anyone in the opposition, because she felt that the chairman during the interpretation of the infringement of the Rules of Procedure could not harm the Rules of Procedure, so that no one in the opposition in the parliament she led had ever received a word like this as she had received the word, all requesting to indicate how she felt that you were holding a session in a way that was challenging. Considering what she said and all the ways she said in these two minutes... That's exactly what I'm talking about. I think Mrs. Gojkovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52870	Mrs. Jerkov, you've reported for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and then that replica doesn't work. Specify a member who is injured. Get to it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52871	Article 103. I believe Mrs Gojkovic has misused her right to speak under Article 103. The Rules of Procedure and all that she said in these five minutes, which also did not belong to her, shows that she does not know the work of the Rules of Procedure at all, suggests that she is chaired by colleagues who do not have the right to chair the Assembly, so that after two years of the Presidency we now find out that she does not know either the Rules of Procedure nor...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52872	Nothing, no comment. So Bojan Pajtic answered the line. I'm sorry, Pititic, there was a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Maja Gojkovic, after the injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52873	Injury of the Rules of Procedure 27 and 103, paragraph 2. So, in the first sentence, you had to interrupt your distinguished colleague, Aleksandra Jerkov, because for all the years of parliamentary life and her parliamentary experience she did not learn one thing, which is that she cannot hurt the Rules of Procedure, but only the chairman. So I don't know who her imaginary injury to the Rules of Procedure was. Whether she referred this to you, as a member of the Democratic Party and the current chairman, or directed it to me, but it is regrettable that in all these years she has not learned that only the chairman can harm the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, you had to interrupt it precisely because of the development of democracy, the preservation of this Parliament's dignity and equal relations with all MPs in this assembly, and I believe that this time you have shown that you have double arches to the MPs, one you hear, and the other you do not hear, one you allow to hurt the Rules of Procedure, and the other you do not allow. Now I'm going to tell you what I said... I am now asking on behalf of our parliamentary group, and this was allowed by the President of the Parliament, not to report again, to set a short break and to agree on a further session, whether you need a vacation, five, ten, 15 minutes, half an hour, nowhere to rush, you have extended your work over 18 hours, and to agree perhaps on respected colleagues, you do not need to underestimate them at all, have parliamentary experience, that one time and they are holding a session. Thank you. Of course, you've hurt the Rules of Procedure and I'm asking you to vote on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52874	Since passions are getting hot and many are tired, and not me, I'm giving everyone ten minutes off. Thank you very much. [[After a break.]] We're going back to work. The word is, finally, since the replicas have put it off for a long time, Sanda Raskovic Ivić.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52876	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will certainly speak in keeping with the agenda, but I cannot express my dissension with the debate of individual MPs so far. This does not exactly promise that this National Assembly will take great care of the interests of citizens and the interests of the state. The Democratic Party of Serbia and Serbia's Dvora Movement together came to the polls with a firm belief that this society and the state need changes both in politics, so that the changes in the people who make the policy are also needed. By choice, Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, we see that many things will not change and that this assembly council will also maintain a policy of continuity with what was before. What I would certainly like to say is that since the SNS so swears in the EU, here I dare remind them that certain EU countries respect parliamentary life so much and their parliaments, or parliaments, it is the custom that the president of the Assembly is usually from opposition lines. For example, Malta, not to mention the Scandinavian countries. We DSS, or our parliamentary group, will not vote for Mrs Gojkovic as the presidential candidate...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52877	Please don't interrupt the pay phone, we heard everyone else, so let's hear it from you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52878	We will give support to the vice presidents this time even though we are not satisfied that the SNS has won three candidates, which is actually only three candidates from the opposition parties. Of course, I would just like to say that both the way and the behaviour of the MPs from this SNS Parliament club really, here I am speaking, and otherwise while they were saying others, I am indeed putting Mrs. Maja Gojkovic very high on the list of wanted ones, because she is beside many who sit in that parliamentary club the right of the queen of democracy. But the joke aside, we have a lot of reasons why we can't really support Mrs. Gojkovic. In addition to being one symbol of the continuity of this policy and of the staff continuity, I must say that today's session, the constitutive session promises badly and indicates that everything that was bad in the previous session will take place in this session. Let's just go as the Assembly is called, as this constitutive assembly is called. Here, I got something yesterday after 4:00 a.m. telegram to come to the constitutive assembly today at 10.00 a.m. So, not a single day has been left for the MP to prepare himself, and here we see the same practice that was in the previous session, which is that they call meetings so quickly, all things by emergency procedure, that many laws are not discussed and that opposition MPs are indeed scribbling. What I also want to say about Mrs. Maja Gojkovic's choice. Maja Gojkovic broke the Constitution. In fact, we've had elections now at all levels, and we've had local elections. Maja Gojkovic violated the constitution by failing to call local elections in Kosovo and Metohija, which was its constitutional obligation. It showed that it is implementing SNS policy and that it does not adhere to the Constitution, because if the Constitution says, and says Kosovo and Metohija are part of Serbia, then either way the elections should have been held there. The fact that in the previous session, and we see that it will also be in this, this high home and the National Assembly has turned into nothing more than one government service instead of a control body, turned into a government service, and I see that this conversion into a government service will last and will intensify even more. Today, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs are not only the day when the speaker of the assembly is elected but also the day when the atmosphere and mode of work will be established to mark the work of the Assembly. In that sense, I would like to make a few suggestions to the future president of the Assembly. The DSS MPs will be very active, they will have a series of suggestions. For these proposals, they will seek support from opposition parties but of course also from parties in power. In this regard, Mrs Maja Gojkovic's role as the future speaker of parliament is very important. The first step in the work of the National Assembly should be to form a polling committee to examine all circumstances and abuses of authorities during the election campaign, on the day of elections, on election night and during vote counting. Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52879	I ask the MPs to listen to their colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52880	The Prime Minister and the SNS president, the master in exchange for the thesis, by the system – holding the thieves, wants the entire survey board and the story to come down to the night the theft culminated and the opposition parties came to RIK. Ladies and gentlemen, we came to RIK neither in phantoms nor we opened the door. We've been legitimateized there. We were released to enter RIK by security and were present at a press conference held by RIK. So we want to fully investigate all the shops and everything that means stealing, and we have a lot of evidence about it, not only that day or that night, not after the damage of the results, but also something that happened before the day of the vote. We see here very clearly how the SNS will behave who wants to make smoke curtains, noises and one noisy way completely cloud the true state of things and make a sacrifice out of whoever was a thief and who stole the election and from the victim to make a thief. We will also seek as the DSS to form another survey committee, which is the poll committee for "Sava Mala". On that election night, not far from RIK, an outrageous violence took place.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52881	I'm only asking you more in the context of the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52882	I'm going back to the topic frame. So, all I have to say is that it's going to be a proposal for the Committee of Auditors. I just want to say that inadmissible slowness, inertness, indolence and police and the prosecution have pointed out that the Security Control Committee will have a job to do. We will also seek the formation of this survey board. (Maya Gojkovic, from the post: Professor, is someone holding a session? ) Furthermore, we will ask the President of the Assembly to call on all the presidents of the parliamentary clubs and to initiate a change in the Rules of Procedure. For four years, the Serbian Progressive Party has been extracting that it has found the country in a terrible state, that the Rules of Procedure is no good, but that they were unable to change it. Veroljub Arsic, from the city: Is the Rules of Procedure a theme? ) Four years sitting there, here is Mrs Gojkovic in the second term, this Rules of Procedure must be changed not only because he is important...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52883	Please stick to the subject after all.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52884	... It holds a democratic procedure, but also what needs to be brought into line with the Serbian Constitution, because it does not agree. (Veloljub Arsic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) Let's say, as an example of the non-compliance of the Rules of Procedure with the Constitution, I will urge the constitutional right of MPs to propose laws. ‘Article 107 The Constitution of Serbia is prescribed," I quote, "the right to propose laws of other regulations and general acts has every MP of the government, the Parliament of the AP or at least 30,000 voters". In practice, this right of MPs has been suspended because when setting the agenda, MPs of the ruling majority never put on the agenda the draft laws proposed by the opposition MPs. Our parliamentary group, therefore, will propose these two committees of inquiry, will propose a whole series of laws, a law on the origin of property, a law on military neutrality and many other laws, and therefore we will seek the support and change of this Rules of Procedure. And finally, I have to look back on what Mr. Martinovic said, because Mr. Martinovic called not only the DSS but also me personally by wondering, by glued the labels to his colleagues from Dvora for "Ijotićism", fascism and similar things that my colleague Obradovic had already responded to, but he said that he was baffled by what he sees me, Boška Obradovica, Cedomir Jovanovic, Pajtic and others together. [[Vladimir Orlic, from the place: Is this why we took a break?]] (Veloljub Arsic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. ) I would just say that the man who was convinced of the radical yesterday and told what he was saying and Mr. Pajtic quoted it so that I don't quote again where we don't know when Mr. Martinovic was telling the truth, then or today. I think a conversion, like he should've covered his ears when he was talking about the conversion of other people.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52885	I pray we understand each other here first. If a bunch of MPs interrupts a letter at the same time, you cannot ask them to stick to the agenda at the same time. You can't hurt the Rules of Procedure on the one hand, and on the other hand you can call on the order. (Veloljub Arsic, from the seat: run the session, don't give a lecture, run the session!) Don't yell from there, you can go outside. What kind of behavior is that? I'm giving you a warning. There's nothing you thugs can do today. (Igor Becic, from the place: You boasted of the longest internship here, and you do not know how to conduct a session. What? Who the hell are you? (Igor Becic, from the place: Today you boasted about having the longest internship. You can't speak from the scene if no one has given you their word. That's what the Rules of Procedure says. Don't be nervous, I'm sorry, but I'll handle it. Please, Mrs. Raskovic, stick to it however, set an example for those who have so far failed to follow the agenda, so circle around the election of the president, its quality or choice, or whatever you want, so as not to have an obstruction of the Assembly, thus delaying the de facto elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52886	Mr. Chairman, I think that I and how I kept the agenda and everything we said was about the election of Parliament Speaker, or President Maja Gojkovic, who is the only candidate and who has a majority here, so it is clear that she will be elected. But I only made certain suggestions and certain examples where she, where I expect me to be president of the DSS parliamentary group, as head of the DSS parliamentary group, where I expect Mrs Gojkovic to change her way of working. I expect it from her. As far as the DSS is concerned, the DSS remains a harsh opposition party and I can tell you that we will stand up for everything that matters to this country and to the people. We will never be an opposition to the state of Serbia or the people, we will stand up for everything that is national, which is in the interests of citizens and in the interests of the state, but we will also stand up for everything that is democratic. Serbian citizens who want to hear a voice against NATO, who want to hear a voice against the EU, will have a speaker in us, as well as citizens who want to live from their work and who are competent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52887	There are five or six candidates in the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mrs. Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52888	Thank you. Mr. President, you started a new session about 20 minutes ago, and as much as I remember you taking a break to start another part of it differently, to run a session primarily you, but also to get the MPs to realize that no matter how different we think about how democracy in this home should look, we have to follow the rules of conduct. What you allow MPs doesn't really say in any section of the Rules of Procedure. So you've broken again and Article 106, Article 107, Article 108, Article 109, etc. I'd like to ask you to remind yourself of the matter you've obviously forgotten. So just because someone talks quietly, someone says in one sentence, you're the queen of democracy; it doesn't mean they stick to the Rules of Procedure and talk about the subject. So, apart from that qualification that I am the queen of democracy, and in a little bit and ironically, nothing else had to do with the subject and should stick to the agenda as the distinguished colleague said, but the agenda points where we are now, and that is the debate, a strict debate on the candidate for Parliament's president. Although someone thinking about obstructing something to do, there's a little bit of it, and the lawyers know they're interpreting it, the president from the last call is the president until he chooses another. So, for free, this is all about obstruction. So, the President of Parliament exists, and you're only helping this first session to take place constitutively in accordance with the rules of conduct of this Parliament. Those rules were passed by you DS, then the ruling party, two thousand, I don't know what year, when this Rules of Procedure came and I think the distinguished colleague was, and at that time, part of the ruling majority. So when you make rules, laws, it's not just about the moment you're in power. Rules and laws apply forever until something changes. Therefore, Mr President, either you want to lead this session in accordance with the rules or allow the next oldest MP to lead this session the way it should be conducted. (Nataša Vukkovic, from the place: Time. Don't warn me on time. The time at this session is a very relative thing, and I want to because I have called for more injuries from the Rules of Procedure, I have two minutes left, I just want to tell you don't insult the MPs from Alexander Vukic – Serbia wins. Not when we are protesting, because this is not the Academy of Science, and you are close to British Parliamentism and you know that there is protesting in different ways, the chairman, then allow us to protest from our benches without jeopardizing some limits of decency.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52889	Is your lecture over, Mrs. Gojkovic? (Maria Obradovic, from the place: So come on, let him go down to the benches, and let him react, and not like this. ) Please, if you want to interrupt the session, say it loud and clear. Don't make me... It's rude.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52890	Article 27, endangering the dignity of the National Assembly. I had hoped for everything, President, but that you would insult women, to insult ladies, to insult the President of Parliament...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52891	It's rude when you don't have a word to talk about the date, and you keep your lessons here to everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52892	That you are going to insult the President of Parliament, that you are going to threaten the right to say something to some MP from the ruling majority today, that is not what I was hoping of from you. You have today shown that citizens of Serbia, when they go to the elections and when they vote and when they round up a particular political party, are never wrong and that they now knew who they voted for and who they punished, and who, with the help of a statistical error, entered this parliament. The poll committee, here, I'm filling the first application of opposition MPs as president of that assembly, still current president, so much for you to know what the rules are, so still the current president, you're just helping me because I'm not the oldest president, is fulfilled. My parliamentary group has requested that the proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the events during the election and post-election process. My colleague, you could at least be restrained after I've filled this out for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52893	I can only say, since you've been talking for a few minutes without saying a word, that you've already chosen yourself and that you think that as president you can speak, criticise whoever you want, that you usurped it. Then give up constitutional provisions that the chairman is the oldest president to lead the assembly. Then say we don't need elections, we're the bosses here, we applaud, we do whatever we want, etc. (Maria Obradovic, from the post: This is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. You can't talk about it from there. You'll all get a word in the Rules of Procedure and we can continue this as far as we can. Let's see who goes first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52894	Dear Mr. Micunovic, Article 107, relating to Parliament's dignity. I would ask you, you must take care, you are the chairman, the president is still Mrs. Gojkovic... Those of you who don't know, I'd like you to keep them quiet. There's a theory here that this is an illegal parliament, because it's supposed to have formed an election theft. Well, what are you saying, why are they sitting here? Then why give the identity of the theft? Come out, people, out of the O.R., break it up. I'm begging you, because this is what citizens are looking at, let them interrupt more to deceive the public. The only one who stole the election is sitting across the street, because with the help of a statistical error they came in here. Thank you. I'm asking you to vote on the injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52895	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52896	Mr. Micunović, you have boasted here today that you are an MP with the longest internship. Well, you're taking this session in a catastrophic fashion. You allowed the Rules of Procedure to be harshly violated, that Ms. Sanda Raskovic Ivić, who, however, I think has forgotten that nothing has changed here in parliament, still has to be talked about, still has to respect the dignity of the Assembly, still this session has to be conducted in accordance with this Rules of Procedure. I can't do anything, and SNS MPs, to ease their pain if they were afraid of forming a survey board, but Serbian citizens are demanding the truth and they will get the truth, who, with the help of whom they pushed a parliamentary group into parliament. If they have the fear of finding out the truth, then they can ask SNS MPs to withdraw that proposal, but we won't do it. We want it to be investigated all the way. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place, and what have they left you? Why won't you be vice president? ) But, too, Mr Micunovic, I repeat that SNS proposal, if you are tired, if you do not want to lead this session, let your colleagues finish this session in a way similar to this parliament, it is similar to the large hall of the National Assembly and simply that we have a choice that Serbian citizens deserve. I ask you, because I don't think you can and need as chairman in this way to allow MPs to undermine the reputation of the National Assembly and the People's MPs and the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52897	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52898	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Mitsunovicu, I speak as an authorised representative of the promoter. First of all, the SNS does not allow her to be taught patriotism by people who claim that "Storm" was a legitimate operation by the Croatian military. We're not going to let patriotism lessons be held by people who claim that there's been a geocyd in Srebrenica. We do not want to be taught patriotism by people who did not want to leave the ambassadorial post in Rome, although Italy also recognised Kosovo and Metohija's independence, while the president of the DSS urged all his officials and all his ambassadors to return to Belgrade. Mrs. Sanda Raskovic Ivić stayed in Rome. Isn't that right, Mrs. Ivić? You, Mrs. Raskovic Ivić, obviously don't have enough political memory. Aristotle once asked a rhetorical question: “What benefit do people benefit from lying? “ So he says: “They have the benefit of not being trusted even when they are telling the truth. ” Mrs. Raskovic Ivić, you have now spoken an incredible lie. You say – SNS and Aleksandar Vucic are traitors, villains, criminals, because they did not hold the election at KIM. That's what you said today. Here is coalition partner Bojan Pajtic, who, as key evidence of the election theft, said that he voted on KIM in the municipality of Vitina, did Mr. Pajtic, Mr. Brankovic, who is 144 years old...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52899	Please, it's been a while. Don't talk about the agenda. You're referring to the injuries of the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52900	Slowly, Mr. Micunovic, did the woman say there was no choice at KIM?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52901	What are you doing in the congregation?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52902	Well, stop, slowly, slowly, let me explain. So, Mrs. Raskovic Ivić, Mr. Mitsunovic, said there was no choice at KIM and that it was prevented by Aleksandar Vukic. A month before that, Pajtic, Sanda Raskovic Ivić, argued together that I do not list them all, as Aleksandar Vukic stole the election right in KIM, so imagine, a man of 144 years voted. Then the whole of Serbia saw that it was Happy Brankovic from the municipality of Vitin, who was 44 years old, not 144 years old. Now, Mrs. Raskovic Ivić, explain to me later that you will explain to me what you were doing as Director of the Refugee Commissioner, so how you came from the Democratic Centre to the DSS, but a little later. Now, would you explain to me whether there was a choice at KIM? (Goran Jesic throws out of place. Take it easy, Gorana Jesic. It'll be your turn, so take it easy. So now you explain well to me, to me, and to the MPs, but above all to the citizens of Serbia, were there elections in Kosovo and Metohija or were they not there? If they weren't there, where did you find this 144-year-old man from the Wittin municipality that he was just voting for Alexander Vukic and the Serbian Progressive Party? So there were elections in Kosovo and Metohija. That's the one thing you forgot. Secondly, Mrs Raskovic-Ivić, at a time when your party had a parliamentary majority in 2007, you forgot all this, the second government of Vojislav Kostunica was, the National Assembly of the Republic voted in a resolution that states among other things that Serbia is military neutral. So, there's no need for you to ask us in 2016 to declare that we are military neutral when we declared that in 2007. So, and that's...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52903	How much time do you need for the replica, Mr. Martinovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52904	I'm not talking about the replica. I, Mr. Micunović, don't use...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52905	How much time do you need to stick to your agenda?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52906	I can't hear you. I can't hear you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52907	No, no, I'm talking about keeping the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52908	I don't speak as an MP who volunteered for the replica, but as a representative of the motionary.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52909	So, for the replica, it takes five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52910	So, I don't have a restriction on the discussion. I just want to say...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52911	Just tell me how long it takes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52912	What are you so nervous about, Mr. Micunovic? You've crossed the census. It's a great political success. There is no greater success in Serbia than when the censorship is crossed. What difference does it make that you won 131 terms, it's a success when you win 6% of the vote. You should be happy about that. So, Mr. Micunovic, since you've had a miracle of winning, as you are, 6% of the vote, in your place, I'd be happy, not nervous. I am trying to explain to Mrs Raskovic-Ivić that the elections in Kosovo and Metohija were, that no one had stolen anyone, that they had joined the left, the right, ask God who, that one electoral list should enter the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and that Mrs Raskovic-Ivić had no need, neither Bojan Pajtic nor Jesic nor Marko Djurisic, to submit any proposals for the survey board. I did it for you today. Your parliamentary group will be entitled, if you wish, to give its representative to that committee of inquiry. When you read the proposal to form a survey board, you will understand. The survey board's work, as you say that night, you were Mrs. Raskovic-Ivić calm as bugs, not one complaint to RIK. You remembered to make an offensive on RIK a few days after the election was over, after you realized you hadn't crossed the censorship, and on that night, as you call it, electoral or post-election, the only two objections to the RIK were filed by the SNS. You, or your list, are not the only ones. When you realize that you have not crossed the censorship, then the attack on RIK, the insults – you are liars, cheaters, then women in the Parliament of the King of Milan are beaten, then threatened, then gatherings are organized, where all the leaders of the so-called are standing for you. The opposition, then it doesn't matter who the patriot is, who the traitor is, who he is for NATO, who he is against NATO. When it comes to hatred against Vucic and SNS, we're all in a crowd and it's still showing up today. It's nothing to argue with. I just want to tell you -- don't bother yourself, Mrs. Raskovic-Ivić. For you and my colleagues, I wrote a proposal to form a survey board on everything that happened on election night, and five days after that election night, and who told whom, and who held a few press conferences, who called for who to vote for, etc. All of this will be nicely examined, as I hope some state authorities will examine what you were doing as Director of the Refugees Committee, what you were doing as an ambassador to Rome, how it is possible that you turned overnight into someone who is against the EU, and you were more than two years in the Committee on European Integration where you advocated European integration, etc. Before you ask us certain questions, answer the crucial question – were there any voting in Kosovo and Metohija and where was that man of 144 years from the municipality of Vitin who voted for SNS and Alexander Vukic, if there was no election in Kosovo and Metohija?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52913	The word has been made by the MP Srdjan Nogo, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52914	Art. 106th and 107th. I would ask colleagues from the SNS to respect the Parliament's dignity, to respect other MPs, to avoid direct address, to avoid insults, to avoid... In accordance with Article 106, no discards are allowed. (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the place: You cannot address us. Mr. Djukanovic, you're not allowed to throw away. I just advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. It's clear, gentlemen of the SNS...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52915	Talk to me, and I'll tell them. Do not turn directly so as not to cause endless replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52916	So, please, under article 106, it's forbidden to throw away as other MPs speak. It is absolutely clear that the task of the 100 SNS MPs, in this assembly of parliament, is to earn when the opposition MPs speak and to applaud when their MPs speak. It's the task of most of you. (Alexander Martinovic, from the city: Kosovo? )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52917	Mr. Martinovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52918	Just to tell you, as Mr. Martinovic said, what is the essential problem of the SNS with the opposition and this election? There's 30 less of you than in the last term and now there's anyone to stand up and say what your government's policy is, that you're in charge of this country by seven billion, that you've reduced the number of employees, that the laws you're making are not for efficiency and justice at all. It's someone who can tell you that your advisor is Tony Blair, that your advisor is William Montgomery. That's why the opposition bothers you, and that's why you throw it away as the MPs speak to the opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52919	Would you like to make a statement about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52920	Dear Chairman, you're putting me in an awkward position right now that I wanted to talk about the breach of article 107. The Rules of Procedure, and according to our Rules of Procedure, are not allowed twice for the same injury, and I will give up my exposure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52921	The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52922	Mr. Micunović, you are the chairman today... Article 108. Mr. Micunovic, article 108, says: “The president, or chairman of the National Assembly, is taking care of the session of the National Assembly. Because of the breach of order at the session, the president of the National Assembly can give a warning, take away words or distance from the session. “ Furthermore, Article 103 states: “The MP has the right to orally point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure and that the President of the National Assembly is obliged to give notice to a national MP who does not comply with the provisions of Article 1, 2 and 4 of this Rules of Procedure or otherwise abuses the rights given to these members. “ Also, Article 106 states: “In the course of the speech of the MPs or other participants in the search, ” says the speaker in other ways, as well as any other procedure that endangers freedom of speech, is not allowed. “ Please, Mr. Micunović, I understand that you are a Democrats and that you want in the best way to calm down the passions of this Assembly, but you have introduced a practice from the first speaker, or a representative of the promoter, not to stick to the agenda theme and to talk about anything other than what is the agenda point. Now you're introducing another practice, which is that all the time someone's been saying, members of the ruling party are getting, making noises and distracting other speakers. I ask you to stick to these quoted points... The SNS are getting it. ) Here you see, I also showed on the case of what it looks like.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52923	Time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52924	So please stick to these provisions and keep order at the session and do not allow it to be thrown away.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52925	Time's up. Thank you. Would you like to make a statement about the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52926	I want you to stick to the Rules of Procedure. There's no need to plead.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52927	I'm afraid we'd empty the O.R. if we applied all the measures, the injuries. Who's calling? Here you go. Is the breach of the Rules of Procedure again?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52928	Item 1 of Article 106. Okay, how about attitude two? Mr. Chairman, do I have the right to speak or the SNS to determine who has the right to speak in this assembly? I'm asking you to let me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52929	That member's already been advertised.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52930	I said position 1 and item 2 and item 3 of Articles 106 and 109. Am I right now? So, besides, Mr. Chairman, there's no point in talking to you or representatives of the SNS here anymore, I want to address the citizens of Serbia who are witnesses here. Speaking to you, I would like to address the citizens of Serbia who are witnesses...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52931	I've already said, please, Mr. Beard, that you're talking to me...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52932	I'm talking to you right now and I'm telling the citizens...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52933	... Because you're going to cause replicas and then we're going to work again for two hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52934	You have been allowing the SNS to destroy the dignity of the National Assembly for an hour now, to cast out the people's MPs of the opposition, not to be allowed to speak, and I suppose it is clear to you, Mr. Chairman, that the SNS MPs have instructions to destroy the dignity of the National Assembly, to reason with the National Assembly, to abolish the meaning of the National Assembly, and you allow them to do so. Don't you understand, Mr. Micunovic, that they were instructed to make senseless of the National Assembly, to question the key state body of this country, so that Alexander Vukic and SNS could rule without control. See, they win again, they don't let it again, they block it again, and you allow it to happen to Mr. Micunovic. I'm asking you...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52935	Okay, it's my fault. I don't have the force, so I can't shut people up here or kick them out, I've appealed and the only thing I can do is appeal to order. There are obviously various currents here, all leading to the obstruction of our work today, and I'm not convinced that we can finish this job today. To whom it is in the interest of some later analysis. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52936	I would like to remind you all of the violation of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of Article 108(2), on the basis of which the President of the National Assembly has the opportunity to give notice, take away word or away from the session of the People's Parliament which violates any provision. I call on you to honor citizens of the Republic of Serbia who today's call to the latest data shown on Parliament's website, today's meeting pays about 1.5 million dinars, so that we don't spend time and money on citizens of the Republic of Serbia, please take advantage of your right.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52937	Here you go, replica Sanda Raskovic Ivić.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52938	I must say, although we opposition MPs have prepared ourselves for insults, I cannot allow a political conversion to lecture me on moral credibility. Speaking of theft, let's remember what Aleksandar Martinovic said about stealing the SRS' mandate in 2008, and now it's a SNS fin, what did you say about stealing the SRS mandate? When did you tell the truth, Mr. Martinovic, then or now? You're a political convert who doesn't have any moral credibility. I need to answer a few questions you asked. First of all, you're talking about stealing, the SNS was created in the theft of the mandate and dragged into parliament...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52939	Mrs. Raskovic Ivić, do not address the MPs directly. Tell me what you object to. I ask an audience who reacts so that it does it a little more peacefully.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52940	The first question is that we said there was no choice in KIM. We didn't say that. I repeat, Mrs. Maja Gojkovic broke the constitution because she did not call local elections in the AP KIM territory. It's about local elections in KIM territory. It's not about anything else. As far as Italy is concerned, don't tell me about my ambassadorial post, it's a matter between me and the then president of Kostunica, but at least don't tell me who are now with the Brussels Agreement supporting the European path of Kosovo.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52941	It's time for the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52942	Please, I have to say, I have to answer something, he's been talking for 15 minutes. As for Storm, you believe so-called "Storm." The Croatian press, rather than me, thank you, for your health. As for Srebrenica, I explained it more than once, and I said... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52943	I hope there's no more replicas and we can... (Alexander Martinovic, from town: Replica. I miss you very much, Mr. Martinovic. I haven't heard from you in a while. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52944	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there's no need to yell at you from the DSS or you from the Dvora Movement, because you're going to yell and make no noise at your argument. The election was on KIM. Your key argument that the SNS allegedly stole the election was that man from the Vicin Municipality you attributed to being 144 years old. Today you claim we're villains and criminals because there was no choice in KIM. So, you're denying yourself. What I said, you can read it, Mr. Obradovic and you, Mrs. Raskovic Ivić, in a proposal to form a survey board. So our proposal to form a polling committee is not just about what happened on election nights, but about what happened until the final election results were announced by RIK, because we want to determine who the pressure was on, who with whom and for whom he joined, so that you, by force of God, would, contrary to the will of the people, come into parliament and then boast that you actually won the election because you passed the 5% censorship. Mrs. Raskovic Ivić, I will not answer your insults. I said what I said. That's why I'm carrying my political burden today. I thought it was moral to say something that a man hundreds of miles away from Serbia told you and who has been in custody for more than 10 years. Turns out I shouldn't have done that, because that man couldn't appreciate it. But it doesn't matter. But Mrs. Raskovic Ivić, because of my words about mandates, about Alexander Vukic, about Tomislav Nikolic, no one has suffered any economic damage. Since you stole your own Kraji people, as director of the refugee office, there is a huge damage to the state of Serbia, to the Serbian people and to the exiled Serbs from Croatia and the Krajina. And the other Mrs. Raskovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52945	Please, Mr. Martinovic, speak to me, if you do not find it difficult, not to cause an uninterrupted replica. That's what the Rules of Procedure says.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52946	It's in the Rules of Procedure. I'm talking to you. Mr. Micunovic, they can tell me everything they want and that I am here to present a punching bag for everything they can't say, because neither Alexander Vukic nor Tomislav Nikolic are present here, but I never told them, no matter how many converts I am, that I am a villain, a criminal, a traitor, ask God what I am, I never said that the Croats had the right to banish 250,000 Serbs from Krajina and I never said that there was a genocide in Srebrenica. And in that sense, I am not allowed to be taught patriotism by people who have said it all and who are convinced that all this really happened. Mrs. Raskovic Ivić, just to tell you one thing again, you can think about me thinking about what you want, my father was wounded at the Court on August 8, 1995, the day after the Croats officially announced that Operation Storm had ended. And ask yourself where you were in 1995, where you were in 2011, where you were later when Vojislav Kostunica asked you to leave the ambassadorial post in Rome. It seems that your Italian coats were more than your exiled Serbs from Krajina.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52947	Replica, Sanda Raskovic Ivić.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52948	I see a big round of applause has fallen for my coat. I won't justify myself because of my pumpkin, because I, Mr. Martinovic, have 37 years of work as a specialist doctor. Secondly, I have to tell you that for those of you who have no moral credibility, it will probably mean something, and that I will not allow you to insult, but also to lie. For this lie that I stole someone, I don't know who, refugees, you'll get a lawsuit. You'll get a lawsuit, Mr. Martinovic, I promise you, a lie and slander suit, because that's the only thing that makes you look like you're defending yourself. You who don't know what you are, you who don't have any moral credibility, you who are one of the most ordinary converts and I can only tell you that by insulting others, you will never undermine who you are.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52949	According to the Rules of Procedure, Djordje Vukadinovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52950	Article 107, I waved for a moment but you didn't notice the dignity of the National Assembly. Dear colleagues, it is clear that I disagree, it is clear that there is little we can agree on, but this session is, I resent it, Professor. Micunovic, but by the way, it's an extenuating circumstance for Mrs. Maja, because even you who belong to this camel, you have failed to provide an essential equal treatment, at least roughly equal treatment for the opposition MPs. What can we hope for when Mrs. Gojkovic sits in that chair? So, it's simply a grudge to you, but it's not up to you either, it's clear to me, but to the overall atmosphere. Let's ask ourselves, we're going to have a political time in the next period, and we're going to argue and we're going to fight, but this is what I wanted to tell you – this session started out nicely, it started almost normal, it started in a good tone, and people I disagree with, from Professor. Seselja do not know who else spoke there, so Marko Djurisic and others spoke reasonablely, and you yourself commended that there was no ad personam, that it was spoken in an argument. And then what went on? The problem is that Mr. Martinovic in my court, whether by mistake or by task, went to actually destroy something that was supposed to be a routine thing to choose from the President of the Assembly and then to continue to work, to discuss and debate things that we disagree about, I will end up, as if someone were to answer that this session and not the session itself, but this Assembly would turn into a circus and thus collapse something that should be a serious control institution of government work and that all the power center in the country would be in one address, in one hand and in one head. It's very dangerous. You derogate your position, not just the positions and the opposition. In a way, you're actually cutting the branch you're sitting on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52951	Time. Here you go, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52952	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm in a big dilemma right now - I don't know if I'm talking to a Serb or a Vlach. If you're Vlach, here I am going to try to be a little softer in the show that, God forbid, someone doesn't attack me to attack members of the national minorities, because I'm extremely esteemed by the national minority. I'd like you to explain to me whether, in the meantime, you've turned from Vlah into a Serb or remained a Vlach, just so I know, and other MPs. Otherwise, I agree, Mr. George, with what you said, I'm speaking to you. So I agree with what the gentleman who represented the Vlach national minority suggested. Let's break up a nice argument, there's no need to fight anymore. The Serbian Progressive Party with its coalition partners has a majority. Let's make Mrs. Maja Gojkovic the president of the National Assembly and get this thing over with. There.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52953	Vukadinović, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52954	So, Mr. Martinovic just repeated what his boss was up to unconsciously repeating and showing how much he didn't have a spine, as he didn't have a few years ago when he was saying what he was saying about him, that he didn't have any now. That's not the problem. The problem is something else, which is the most responsible person, and that's real we know who, also allows himself such things. This isn't about minority rights and national identity. It's just that we're on an important and difficult job. It's just that this country wouldn't be easy to manage even if it were the government and that we're all better at what we are. It's that one irresponsible group, I don't think that's true of all, not SNS MPs, nor do I think they're angels on this side, but it's this way, gentlemen, that we're destroying this institution. I have no problem answering in the same spirit, however I pleaded, and I have always pleaded in the same way, and during communism, and in the '90s, and today and today, so I have always been a Serb, nor Yugoslav, nor Vlah, nor anything else, but I could remind you, not only of you, Mr Martinovic, but also of some of your leaders, how they pleaded and what they said, more or less funny, how they talked about a "table for one", in this same Parliament, i.e. in the second building, but in the same National Assembly, they also changed from the largest patriots to the greatest Europeans. We can remind ourselves of that, we should remind ourselves of that, but I can't, nor can the people of Serbia pay the price because of someone's subsequent mind, because after 20 years someone discovered that the Berlin Wall had fallen, because someone discovered that there was an EU and that someone in the old days decided to be more Catholic than the Pope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52955	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52956	Mr. Micunovic, Article 107, relating to Parliament's dignity. I'm really asking you not to have the right to preach to the MPs about morale by someone who tried to steal the Vlach's national minority. It offends Parliament's dignity. I ask you to warn an MP who in such a harsh way insults the messengers here and tells someone...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52957	Please tell me which member was injured first, because you're reporting from the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52958	I said, "Article 107." Mr. Micunović, you didn't hear me. It is embarrassing and scandalous that someone is telling Mr. Martinovic that he has no spine, the one who tried to fake being a member of the national minority to get to the mandate. I ask you to warn such a man, for he violates dignity with the very presence of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52959	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52960	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, so you who speak of political converts have not yet answered my question whether you are a Serb or a Vlach, because in 2012, you said you were a Vlach and as a Vlach you entered the National Assembly. I have not seen more political hypocrisy than when someone changes the nation to become a MP, to drink coffee for seven dinars and eat lunch at a 200 dinar congregation restaurant, I have not heard that in my life. But something much more important, Mr. Vlahovic, uh, Vukadinovic. You belong to a party who has carried out almost all the robbery privatisations in the Republic of Serbia, of 24, and unfortunately there have been many more, of the 24 privatisations that the European Commission has assessed as controversial, I think, all but one, happened at a time when your party led the government and led this country. Unlike you, the government run by Alexander Vukic is not closing factories, but opening them. As you could see, we open them throughout Serbia, both in Vojvodina, in Belgrade, and in western Serbia, and in southern Serbia, and your coalition partner, the day after the opening of a large factory in Vladic's Han, which you otherwise as Pajtic Vojvodina, as Turks, ruined while you were in power, photographed. (Nenad Canak, from the post: The Turks were not in power. ) The Turks, Canak, were in Vranj, as they were not in Vladic's Han much longer than in Vojvodina. So, your coalition partner takes a day after the prime minister opens a factory in Vladica's Han and enables hundreds of people to be employed there, photographed in front of the newly opened factory, and says, "What better for us investors to have a lock factory standing there, where no one works, what do we need investment for, what do we need jobs for? Unlike those of you who shout so much, you are very insulting and very nervous, and I don't know why, because you have achieved historical success, you have entered the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, SNS from day to day changing Serbia for the better and we are moving forward. We're growing a gross social product. You can hate me now, Wolfie, SNS, but these are indicators you can't question. We have reduced the number of unemployed, almost every day a new factory opens up, we improve education, we improve our health system, there is no need for children who are suffering from severe illnesses to be treated by sending SMS messages, there is now a budget fund under the budget of the Republic of Serbia from which it is financed. So, every day, we change what you've devastated to the end, in the coalition with those you've been with while you've been doing it, and looting privatisations, as well as today when you're protesting alleged election theft. And nothing, Mr. Vukadinović, changed – and then you were with them when you were closing factories both in Vladni Han and in Vranj and in Šapac and in Novi Sad and in Subotica, and today you are on the same side with those who claim that electoral theft happened, and they remembered that seven days after the election was over. Mr. Vukadinovicu, we have a lot of hard work to do. I fully accept your proposal to stop the debate, to vote, and let the MPs decide that they think it is best whether Maja Gojkovic will be the president of the National Assembly or not. You may hate me and my colleagues from the SNS to the will, but more to restore Serbia to the state in which it was when you were in power, there is no force. We no longer close the factories, but we open them, we create new jobs, and in the next four years Serbia will be a much better place to live than it is today, as it is today much better than when your party was in power.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52961	The word is made by MP Marija Obradovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52962	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Rule 109, I've been waiting a long time. We're here to hear about obstruction and the fact that SNS is making obstructions. For the time being, I see that in the ninth hour of the discussion, we listen to insults, lies, without any reason, and you expect us to keep quiet, us 131, and you know that there should be many, many more of us, that there is not another list violently inserted that has reduced our mandates, so now we have 131. I want to tell you what the 131th term is. Someone said, "You're only 131, you've got 30 less than you've ever been." Gentlemen, we're talking voices, you let the math go. I look voters in the eyes every day, and here are people for 1,823,000 and several hundred voters. You want me to tell you who's on the other side? On the other hand, there are people who have 19,000 voters.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52963	May I ask you, when the applause is quieted, which member is injured after you reported for a breach of the Rules of Procedure? And do not turn to the Messengers
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52964	I appreciate every voter in Serbia, but they should keep in mind how many people are behind them and how many voters are standing here. Accordingly, they must respect the will of the voters. They don't have to respect Mr. Martinovic or me personally, but those people who voted for the policy represented by the SNS must respect that. The obstruction is being conducted exclusively by the opposition MPs and I expect them to agree on a proposal to end the discussion and immediately declare Mrs Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52965	The replica was reported by Djordje Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52966	Mr. Martinovic, you have a problem with facts. First of all, I don't hate anyone. Let's not pretend, you've been here for three hours insulting everything, three hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52967	Mr. Vukadinovic, speak to me, not directly, because we will have replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52968	Let's not fake ourselves, Mr Micunovic, the problem is whether by nature or by directive, the parliamentary majority is unable to hear a few, therefore, few, respected colleagues, short replicas and criticisms at its expense. What did we have? What did we have? First Seselj, well we had Sandu, we had Bojan Pajtic, and we needed to hear two more heads of Parliament. We'd have five, seven, eight minutes to talk and that's it. I tell you the most well-meaning, I don't hate anyone, I'm not Vlach, I didn't get into parliament, it's all false, but it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter at all. I'll answer that, I'll say a table for Alexander, a table for a wolf, and I'll compensate for that George Vlach. I'll also say that if I'm not mistaken, my colleague was a member of the DS before that. I haven't changed my beliefs, I haven't been a fake patriot, and now I've become a fake European leader of your party and that's what's important in this story. But if you are not able, colleagues dear, to hear a few opposition MPs say a few things, not even ugly, at the expense of Mrs Gojkovic, then I do not know what this looks like. You seem to want to throw the opposition out of this parliament, as if this is as few as you have, because you cannot bear to hear criticism on your own account, and especially not at the expense of your leader. That, dear colleagues, and ask here the elderly who know both theory and life, can't end well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52969	Time. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52970	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Vukadinovic, are you the same one who claimed in May 2014 that we were burning corpses in Obrenovac? Are you the same one who said about...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52971	Talk to me, Mr. Martinovic. You may feel uncomfortable, but still, talk to me and tell him what you want to say to me. It'll be a replica again.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52972	Is this the same gentleman who said that at the time of the May floods of corpses that we collect in Serbia we burn at the "Nikola Tesla" Termo power plant in Obrenovac? Is that the same Mr. Vukadinovic? I'll tell you, Mr. Micunovic, what this is all about. This is where the representatives of the so-called opposition came...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52973	Tell me whatever you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52974	Here, let me explain, there's no need to get upset. So, here came representatives of the very colorful political opposition, left, right, nationalists, Europeans, found, for then, for neutrality, etc., and thought that they would hit the SNS parliamentary group like a bag, that we would keep quiet here and wait for the moment when you would determine a vote for the president of the National Assembly. I am telling you now, we will not be silent because we have nothing to be ashamed of and we will fight until the last moment that Serbia will never return to the time it was ruled by the Democratic Party, the Democratic Party of Serbia and its coalition partners. So we don't want to keep our mouths shut, we have the courage to fight. That they expected us to keep quiet and listen to their written speeches and homework, I'm sorry, but they were wrong. So, we'll fight to the end. I repeat once again, as far as I'm concerned, I have no doubt at all. As far as I'm concerned, and as far as my parliamentary group is concerned, you can stop the discussion immediately, invite your boss and other leaders of the so-called opposition to give up the discussion. Let's go to the polls right now, so let's see who has the majority and finally the citizens of Serbia see, after more than a month of the elections, who actually won these elections and who loses. Did the one who won 1,800,000 votes win more than in the previous elections and now has an absolute majority in the National Assembly, or did the elections get those who received 5%, 6%, etc., and ask the dear God in what way?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52975	The word is Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52976	Mr. Micunovic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want to congratulate you first on your choice and wish you success in the work we do together. I don't think that success will be if it depends only on my wishes, and that's why I'm not too happy. She disappeared somewhere in hours after us, Maya Gojkovic, a candidate for Parliament's president, so I'd like to talk about her choice. In the atmosphere that was created, it doesn't seem to matter. A lot has been said about the opposition, and much less about the ruling party and the coalition. I don't think the SNS should be silent. On the contrary, I think he should speak openly of everything he has to talk about as a party that is so responsible, given the number of votes you won in the election. I don't know, I talked to my colleagues from other parties, none of us have the illusion that he won the election. I personally congratulated you on winning the election night. I received a call from your president during this debate to talk to you next week. I answered that call and said I'd accept it. And you'll admit it's not a normal situation where we as presidents talk, and we can't normally talk here in the Assembly. The only thing that bothers me is if the subject is what's been kept quiet, that you've failed to insult the president of the state. I am not obliged to fight for Tomislav Nikolic, when he was elected president in 2012, I congratulated him, went into inauguration, but I do not like the idea that the president of my country, although I voted for someone else, was so openly offended, and that the party that was running for office was silent. That's what was wrong here today. That means we don't have a president. We have proved by doing so here that we do not have a parliament, that we are in trenches of the 1990s, in which no one has found happiness, and certainly not the people who voted for us. I don't want to end up on the coffee price pole at the restaurant, but I want to tell you that our parliamentary group is going to behave today during the vote. We will support the agreement made before this session and accept the list of vice-presidents proposed by the parties, in accordance with the consultations. (Alexander Martinovic, from the city: And who gave you this?) ) The agreement was reached thanks to the willingness of the SNS to meet the demands of the opposition, which I consider justified and therefore supported them. But when you take one good step, there's no need to drag us back. It's hard not to recognize what you said about the arrest of Milosevic, about that darkness after October 5th that you described, but I kept my mouth shut by not wanting to get into that kind of controversy. As Serbia has always been the biggest problem for itself, it seems to me that the atmosphere has also been transferred here to parliament. What we see around us testifys about the loss of authority and the great mistrust of people in our ability to influence this society. That's why phantoms and ducks happen to us. If we want to change that, then we can't run away from our interpretation of the past. I think it's a shame that anyone today represents citizens in Serbia, and in particular the government, allows himself to substitute himself to the murderers of the Prime Minister and make one legitimate issue, and the solution is in the interest of those in power, about this nonsense in the 2001 election night. Our contribution to this atmosphere that I am talking about will be the willingness to honestly tell you why we will not vote for Maja Gojkovic. Because we didn't talk about it. No one offered us this as a proposal and invited us to make a deal. Not about percentages and quotas, but to agree on the support that would then give us the right to tell why we stand behind someone who is a candidate of the party who won the election. If we want some order in the country, then it is the fundamental right of one who wins the election to have a president. You have denied us the opportunity to vote for Maja Gojkovic by your relationship. What I want to tell you honestly is a fact that comes from some personal experience. The Serbian parliament was always good when it was led by women -- and while Natasa Micic was doing it and while Mrs Dejanovic Djukic was doing it. I believe that Maja Gojkovic will try to make it so, but you, as the ruling majority, will make it possible for her to do so. I'm not in Dragoljub Micunovic's party. I wanted us to agree to go to elections together, the Democratic Party made different decisions. I felt that our agreement would stabilize the country's opportunities and allow us to seriously influence all the problems that are looking for solutions today, and we need each other in this business. In 2012, when your first government was elected, I told Alexander Vukic that politics in Serbia is such that sooner or later we will end up with each other. What's the problem is that we've spent four years, largely compromised ourselves and made ourselves so powerless that today, regardless of the millions' support, we can't answer all those challenges that can't wait for some of our later minds. Respect the chairman, and if you find it difficult to be the victims of some mistakes, you realize that you are the greatest and that you are therefore legitimate, in a political sense, the target here in parliament and you are fighting for yourself, but don't fight that fight in this way, that everyone here today must feel ashamed of what he heard or said. I don't like the fact that the parties have changed. I think that most of us were both in power and in opposition, I remember very well the pointless sessions that were then condemned by the ruling coalition of the Democratic Party and the SPS, I remember Dinkic's Law on Chambers of Commerce, which is being adopted by an emergency procedure, which takes effect in three years. We remember the midnight vote for the budget and 30 points of the agenda, which are being discussed at the same time. There aren't too many here, in that regard, innocents. Let this parliament be the way the country needs it - efficient, capable, parliament that will express everything that is our personal value, not what makes us bad. Today I think we've promoted everything that people have long stopped believing in Parliament, parties and us as politicians who gave that policy our lives. A lot of things have been done wrong. I ask you to finish this debate by everyone saying what they think they should say about the candidate for president and vice president. I told you why we won't vote for Maja Gojkovic, I personally wish her success as well as all of you. This is what Serbia needs, and in 2001, phantoms, robbery privatisations, one party, another party, the third party, if we choose this, we can also talk in such a way. I think at least at this point, it's not necessary and if someone's responsible for the atmosphere, it's always the one who's the greatest and the one who's power. From your willingness to endure something will depend on the further course of the session. I don't think we should go straight to the vote, I think we should get back to the debate on the agenda, let the other colleagues come forward. I agree that we will vote in accordance with the agreements and then the vice presidents, but a little courtesy and order in mutual relations is necessary. We're not enemies, I've said it so many times, and when we're forced to endure personal insults, I think we're obliged to think about it and prove it to ourselves. I don't see you as my enemy, Martinovic, or your client. I respect your result, but then you respect it yourself. The expression of respect is not only a struggle for its attitudes, but also the ability to endure what might otherwise not work in private life. I've been silent all day, and I can't think of going back to 2001, and I don't think we're thinking about running for office here. I know it's hard for you to talk about phantoms, and to look at Balša Bozovica or Natasa Vukkovic. I'm the one who was in April 2001 with Milosevic, I'm the one who was with him on June 28th. Don't talk about it now, it's the least of my problems, but 15 years of that story didn't bring anything normal to this country. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: you should be responsible for this. ) I agree, and I would like that responsibility to be determined once and for all, but not in these unfair discussions, but as it seems in a normal country. I didn't attack you when you said you were going to raise Zorana's monument, I didn't do it. Don't fight with those who didn't before, I guess because they had their reasons. One of the reasons we didn't do it was because even his grave in the cemetery couldn't be alone, and he's being guarded by a police patrol day and day. We don't need monuments to fight over. If you want to do it, do it politely. I think it's an obligation for those who lead the country to mark 15 years since the assassination of the Prime Minister. All that's said before and after is the compromise of both this man and the little normality left in our relationship. So much for me. I hope you understand why we can't vote for Maja Gojkovic. I respect your gesture and the step you have made, respecting the demands of the Movement "Enough" and the Democratic Party. I think we need this atmosphere and let this first session be the way Vukadinović wanted it to be – a decent and in a clear way expression of our willingness to be different than we've been before.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52977	Please, does the president of the parliamentary clubs or the authorized think anyone else is speaking? If he wants, let him press the key, let's have it right here on the record. Meanwhile, Nenad Canak has a word. The rest of you, get ready.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52978	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Chairman, two years ago when Mrs. Maja Gojkovic was proposed to the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I probably gave the shortest speech in my life, and who voted - I have nothing to say. And I really didn't have anything to say, because it would have been completely declassified if I had talked about certain events from the past, Maja Gojkovic, her being mayor of Novi Sad and some other moments that would only make a question, and wouldn't have given a single answer. In the past two years, we have not had any major objections, as the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina, in the way Maja Gojkovic led, as far as we are concerned, the Assembly. However, I wanted to ask some other questions that are now the time to give some answers. First, I must remind myself that the National Assembly is an extremely important institute in the state because it is the most representative body of all citizens. As the most representative body of all citizens, I must remind you of what I have noticed to appear as a delusion to some colleagues, and that is that all of us sitting here are directly elected to the elections, and everyone else, both the government and the directors of public enterprises and all the other officials, are appointed faces. It's a very important difference because they draw legitimacy from us, from us who are directly chosen, not us from them. The majority is the story of the executive government that, behold, she needs more freedom. That is why it is a great challenge for the government to start showing itself, to start ruling some shortcuts, rather than respecting the procedures that form the basis of democratic society. In that sense, parliament is an infinitely significant institution, as the main dam, to establish dictatorships in a country. That's why "Mein Kampfu" Hitler writes that parliament is a place where parliamentary caterpillars are collected that do nothing, are just pests, contrived among themselves, and that it should simply be abolished. Because, I repeat, parliament stands, if it fulfils its duty to defend the democracy of a society. This parliament deserves someone who will take care of it in a way that will not only have their own budget, but also have enough power to counter all the objections that appear to it. When I tell the riots, here I am talking about the position of the MPs, about protecting the integrity of the MPs, about not being in the boulevard press the main theme of who came by car to the meeting of the National Assembly, without touching the subject of what kind of car came, let's say, at a cabinet session or at a session of some board of directors of a public enterprise or synod. To understand one thing, we sitting here, all of us with the full respect of the parliamentary majority that she got, here's the information, over 1,800,000 votes. All of us sitting here represent someone and we are bound by the citizens of this country, but at the same time the executive authority is bound by us, bound to this Assembly. And when Maja Gojkovic, Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia yesterday, and how things stand and the future, has no place to live and is in a position to act second to the importance of a function in one country, then I ask you how far this parliament has come and what is the attitude towards parliamentaryism. When I say there's nowhere to live, ask her, don't ask me. How is it possible that of all the villas and apartments owned by the Republic of Serbia, a residence cannot be found for the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, another man of the country? As possible, no matter what anyone thinks privately about Maja Gojkovic, I'm not talking about her, I'm talking about the President of the National Assembly, I'm talking about the systematic collapse of the credibility of the National Assembly and I'm talking about that if this process continues, and the National Assembly is the only place where the hands are raised for anything that comes from the government, we're going to lift one of the branches of government and push that country into a dictatorship that we're all going to be responsible for together. On the other hand, it was said in one of the discussions that there could be no opposition against the government, for my God, most of them chose it. Let me remind you that when decisions are made in the Vatican, for example, one cardinal is always obliged to control everything that is stated, to attack any idea that is given. The reason is that he, by title, the devil's lawyer fights exactly what they offer others to search all possible weaknesses before it comes out of the Vatican chambers, before it goes, as we would say in today's language, into the ether. This is the purpose of the Assembly, among other things, of proposing government and government legal initiatives here to be searched with full care before they become legally binding. This has never been the case in this House before. So far loyalty is measured by who votes, and who does not vote, and not who contributes, and who does not contribute. I would just like to say one more thing, which when we look at things taxically, Mr. Martinovic said an explanation proposal for Mrs. Maja Gojkovic that she is a sort of lawyer. I'm not sure anyone can call himself a great lawyer when his defendant, the defendant, is sitting in custody for 12 years, and then eventually he cancels his power of attorney. That doesn't happen to these great lawyers, so here's a living witness to have cases like that. Isn't that right, Mr. Seselj?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52979	I don't know, now you get yours, so I'll do it later.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52980	I didn't bring anything out, Mr. Seselj, I'm from another party, I bring it in here. So the point is very simple. With all due respect to Mrs Maja Gojkovic and her work over the past two years, we will not vote for her choice for the simple reason why I think parliament needs more energy to be invested in raising its credibility and defending the interests of all Serbian citizens who have delegated 250 people to take care of their country's interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52981	He has the word George Komlensky.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52982	Ladies and gentlemen, friends and comrades, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, as a representative of the Socialist Movement Committee Club, the People's Peasants' Party and the United Peasants' Party, I declare here that we will vote in favour of the proposal that Maja Gojkovic be elected president of the Assembly. Not only because Maja Gojkovic is the only proposal, but it is the most convincingly best proposal this Assembly could give and take at the moment. In the past two years, Maja Gojkovic has contributed with her exceptional enthusiasm, work, by making an extraordinary contribution that this Assembly is doing effectively, well and above all in accordance with the laws, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Rules of Procedure on Labour. I won't comment on some things, but there are some things I can't ignore here. How cautious Maja Gojkovic is, how perceptive she is, and according to the opposition group's proposals, she is also speaking of this proposal on the election of the Committee of Auditors to address these topics that our colleagues from the opposition ranks have mentioned. They mentioned it, but they were lazy enough not to write a proposal, but to stick to comment only. We have indeed experienced here today, but completely unexpected, the terror of minorities above most, and then, according to the old good cliché, we have listened to the story of culture, the principles, the descent of tones, the desire to keep some things intact here, and to remain unexplained until the end, and there are quite a lot of them, because all these things are mentioned here in context and at the moment when the proposal for president of the assembly was discussed. We can't not link them to evil intent, because if it were just the president of the assembly, we would only hear about Maja Gojkovic. Here today's story is spread to what can't be the topic of this agenda point. If we are talking about election thefts today, we must not forget that this assembly hall in 2000 was burned, that the ballots were burned, and that the electoral will of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia could never be checked, controlled, that it could not be legally proved that in October 2000, a coup was made in Serbia, by burning the ballots, by destroying the Assembly, by harassing journalists, by harassing all those people who do not think the same as those who committed the coup in 2000. I understand why some gentlemen don't want to talk about phantoms today, they don't want to talk about past times, because what they've done for the past 12 years, and even 16 years is a tragedy that will leave Serbia a deep trail, and it will need a lot more power and energy to fix it than it needed to be done. I would ask you then to remind Mrs. Sandu Ivić that she was at your democratic centre, that she was very far away from the DSS which she allegedly belongs to today, that all the time she spent in politics, even to this day she was close to every regime and tried to be with him, to the extent that she was close to today, that she tried to be close to today's ruling furniture until the moment that Tomislav Nikolic refused to give her ambassadorship even though she delivered her CV. It's a constant reminder of the next thing, and I agree that what's born with a hump, time is hard to correct. The most brutal thing that ever happened in Serbia was the coup of 2000 and we are still not in a position to say that all the consequences of that coup have been corrected. That is why I understand why it is spoken in advance and alerts me to hate speech every time true facts are presented about what must be clearly spoken of. How much is the difference between the current ruling party and those who once ruled, says patience to wait for the state authorities in the legal procedure to do what they should do, without perorations, without lustration, without harassing innocent citizens. We cannot, and Mrs Gojkovic herself has made it clear that she has understood as a very pervasive comment "the Queen of the Assembly". We have a king here, but we have a bankruptcy king who's probably waiting on his turn to entertain us here with the prices of coffee at the congregation restaurant and perhaps by introducing bankruptcy in this assembly, but that can't happen at all. The expenditures reportedly mentioned for the duration of this session are far from the damage that the bankruptcy king has done in one bankruptcy, transferring unfounded funds to his close associates, who are even presently in this room. Mr. Micunović, since I'm not once sure whether you enjoy today allowing only my distinguished colleagues on the right to make noise and not to use any bells or it's a habit of two thousand years, I won't even take up too much time. It would be best if the opposition had any candidate for the president of the assembly at all, so that we could say what we were thinking. Praise Maja Gojkovic no need. Her work, her commitment, her involvement in the past two years clearly speaks of it. I agree that this home is important and important for work, but first, let the leaders of the opposition agree whether unity of government, whether equality of government, whether or not one will dominate all of this. The legislative function of this body is clear, and what we expect in the previous period and in the future, we have an extremely agile government, an extremely engaged government, which prepares the laws, as an authorised proposing puts them on the agenda of this Assembly, imposes a pace of work, does not prohibit any initiative and position and opposition to address some new amendments, texts, complete proposals and make life in Serbia at least a little better. After four years, Serbia may not be much richer, but it is a far more just country, a country that has stabilised its economy and we expect it to move forward, will move forward with one full capacity and full engagement and this assembly home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52983	Is there still a president of the parliamentary groups or authorized to sign in, please? Meanwhile, Sasa Radulovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52984	Ladies and gentlemen, the honourable MPs, the chairman, the agenda point is the election of the National Assembly president, that's the topic we need to talk about. I'd like to go before we talk about the subject to read what the Rules of Procedure says about it. So, article 27. – The President of the National Assembly shall represent the National Assembly, convene its meetings, chair them and perform other tasks in accordance with the law and this Rules of Procedure. So these are the jobs of the president of the National Assembly and we need to talk about a candidate who will do these jobs best. The promoter spoke much more about the government, Europe, Russia, economic policy, GDP growth, all these things, but very little about how the president, the former speaker of the Assembly, represented the National Assembly, chaired sessions and held other jobs. I will now move on to the other members, Articles 105, 106, 107 and 108. Rules of Procedure. In article 108, he says - the work at the National Assembly session is being taken care of by the president of the National Assembly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Then, members 105, 106 and 107 say – no one can speak to the National Assembly before asking and receiving a word from the president of the National Assembly. Then, in Article 106. – The speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. Then, no one can interrupt the speaker or warn him, except for the president of the National Assembly, and during the speech of the MPs or other participants in the search, it is not allowed to throw away, or interfere with the speaker in any other way, as well as any other procedure that endangers freedom of speech. And Article 107. – The speaker at the meeting of the National Assembly is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly and the session of the National Assembly is not allowed directly to address the MP to another MP, to use offensive expressions, etc. So the job of the president of the National Assembly is to do this. We think that this debate today has shown how much political culture you do not have in the National Assembly and how much the president in the previous session has actually failed in that function and that is the main reason why the MP group "Enough has been enough" will not vote for the National Assembly president. Of course, this pay phone is being abused for debauchery, for planting, for lying, for a political circus, it really doesn't belong to this home. We have issues, we need to talk about them, we have differences, they're normal, we need to talk about these differences, and eventually we need to vote, of course, and make laws, make decisions. That's what the citizens expect from us. What seems to be happening instead is we get a reality show that looks more like "The Farm" or "The Couples" than it looks like the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the place: He insults the Assembly. So this has to change... (Maya Gojkovic, from the post: How can you insult parliament? )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52985	I'll give you a warning. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52986	Since this reading was obviously not completely clear, no direct address of the MP is allowed at the meeting of the National Assembly, nor is it allowed to be thrown away. So, if someone wants to respect the Rules of Procedure, this is the first thing they'll ever respect. This applies to both the government and the ruling majority, as well as the opposition. The same goes for all MPs from the opposition who are to talk about the agenda point. So this is the essence of the reasons why we think that the president did not function well in the previous term and that is why we will vote against it. We hope to have a new political culture in which we will be responsible for citizens, talk about the points of the agenda, discuss them and ultimately make decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52987	The People's MP Veroljub Arsic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52988	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I believe that the previous speaker has violated the Rules of Procedure relating to Article 107, in which he writes – the speaker at the National Assembly session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. To explain, Mr. Chairman, the previous speaker called the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the most representative body under the Constitution, "realitious" and "pharmam" and then appealed to us as if he were someone who is our tutor and should teach us good behavior, and he does not adhere to it himself. So, I believe that the Rules of Procedure have been injured because you have not warned him that such expressions are no longer useful and that he respects the dignity of the National Assembly and respects the will of the citizens of Serbia, which we all present here, regardless of the lists from which we are elected.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52989	Okay. Since this is a reaction to the Rules of Procedure, then there are no replicas and I can't give you a replica. Of course, I appeal once again to silence passion and to choose words, because as I said at the beginning, this is the best way to safeguard the dignity of the congregation. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52990	Dear Chairman, honourable fellow councilmen, pardons, MPs, respected Serbian citizens who follow the direct transfer of this assembly session, allow me to welcome you all once again on behalf of the Serbian Movement Group of Ministers and immediately say that our parliamentary group will vote against the election of Ms. Maja Gojkovic as National Assembly President. I want to immediately, of course, and to explain very directly and specifically what these are all the reasons that guide us in this direction. First of all, the organization of this constitutive session of the National Assembly. In particular, here, as head of one of the parliamentary groups in the National Assembly, I have not been invited to this constitutive session at all. Until yesterday, so 24 hours earlier, we didn't even know when the constitution of the session would be held. We didn't know her agenda, as we didn't get it until the very beginning of the constitutional session. We already understood what the idea of the ruling SNS was, that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia was humbled, that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia lost its meaning and that it remained only SNS as the only authority and only power in this country. It just won't work. The SNS may have received, as she says, 48% of the votes, along with all forms of electoral irregularities, theft and manipulation, starting with media darkness, to avoid confrontation between the authorities and the opposition and everything else that we will prove on concrete examples through the assembly polling committee, but the other 52% of the electoral body does not belong to the SNS and never, as it could not determine the results of the elections, will not be able to determine the full political life in Serbia, nor will the work of the National Assembly. It is clear from today's events in the National Assembly that this humiliation of the National Assembly continues and in this I see the negative role of Ms. Maja Gojkovic both in the organisation of this constitutive session and in the absence of warnings to Mr. Aleksandr Martinovic, who actually opened one bad practice at this constitutive session. In fact, very little or almost nothing has spoken of the SNS candidate for National Assembly president himself and has become the prime minister and has begun to present the programme of the future government of the Republic of Serbia instead of the mandate. It's possible he has a fascination with the prime minister. It's possible he has a cult leader who has to respect. It's possible that he doesn't know anything else to say except what was already said by Alexander Vukic, but simply, it wasn't a subject. It was crucial not to allow and stop one such bad practice at that time, and later, everyone simply had to respond to everything that was launched by the SNS. It is clear that it is one practice that they want to introduce into this new assembly of the National Assembly, that whenever an MP from the opposition appears, they begin to gain, they interfere with his exposure, they prevent different opinions from being heard, and thus simply kill the meaning of the parliamentary opposition as control and corrective functions of each government. In that sense, I think that Mrs. Maja Gojkovic did not properly manage the previous assembly of the National Assembly. We'll give you a series of examples that speak in that direction. One of the most important examples is already listed by our fellow MPs from the DSS parliamentary group. In her time, following the anti-constitutional Brussels agreements the previous government made, of course, in breach of its pre-election promise to annul all agreements signed in Brussels in its time by Borko Stefanovic on behalf of Boris Tadic, going much further in anti-constitutional activities regarding KIM, disbanded local self-government in four municipalities in the north of KIM. Until today, no elections have been called for these four local self-governments in the north of KiM under the current laws of the Republic of Serbia, allowing Maja Gojkovic directly to take part in the implementation of anti-constitutional Brussels agreements in the practical surrender of KIM to the Shipar regime in Pristina and to make it impossible for citizens of Serbia in KIM territory, i.e. in particular these four municipalities of the north of KIM, to choose their authority by law and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It's just enough that we never give our trust again, or ever give it to Mrs. Maji Gojkovic. She obviously does not know that she respects the Serbian Constitution. It directly violates Serbia's constitution and for years does not call elections for these four local self-governments in the north of KiM, of course, because it is part of a government that implements all anti-constitutional Brussels agreements and that also prevents the Constitutional Court from setting up and stepping fat in Serbia's path to the EU at any national price, and first at the cost of issuing and handing over KIM. Of course, Ms. Maja Gojkovic also made problems in her statements on the other side of Serbia, in the other Serbian province, in Vojvodina, where she did not pay attention, whether by chance, and whether it was some SNS projection, she spoke about the co-operation of two governments, the Governments of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Vojvodina and at all pointed to a dangerous potential of separatism that exists in northern Serbia and which apparently is neither foreign nor individual SNS MPs. That is also an important reason why we cannot give our trust to Maja Gojkovic. Of course, we got her biography here. She's pretty poor. It is a few sentences, which practically do not say anything, leaving out everything important that should be mentioned in the biography of Maja Gojkovic. It is particularly characteristic of this break between 2004 and 2012 in its biography, where no single word mentions what Maja Gojkovic was doing between 2004 and 2012. Of all the MPs present here, Maja Gojkovic is probably the champion of party change, probably one of the leaders of political flyers in this assembly of the National Assembly. I think in that sense she would be a much better candidate for one of the party's leading functions, Ljubisa Preletevic Beli, than for the president of the National Assembly. Allow me, if anyone can be in both the SRS and the People's Party, and in the coalition with Kostunica, and in the coalition with Dinkic, and finally in the SNS, and before anyone knows where else, the question is whether she has any political position, whether she has any political principle, whether she has any political programme and how will such a political personality be found at the head of the National Assembly again? Is it possible the SNS criterion that the bigger the flyer, the higher you go? Could it have been the SNS? Look, when you change so many times the parties, then you owe a lot to whoever gave you a chance for the seventh time, then you have to listen to the orders of the executive and to work in the legislative authority exclusively by the directives of whoever allowed you to be a factor in society and state again after the seventh party. Maybe it was missing in this biography of Maja Gojkovic and that the SNS really says realistically why it is running. Simply, she will be the most loyal to Alexander Vukic, she will serve the best interests of the SNS, she will best listen to the directives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So in this sense it is very important to know the biography of candidates and to cite his political path in this biography. You can't take a break from eight years old and suddenly show up at the SNS presidency, as if we've all forgotten how many parties, ideology, programs and authorities you've changed so far. Simply, the dignity of the National Assembly should contain another provision missing from this Rules of Procedure, which is that the president of the National Assembly should not be a person who has changed seven parties. It just loses every sense. Politics loses every sense, ideas in political life lose every sense. That is another reason why, of course, we will not give our trust to Mrs. Maja Gojkovic. I would not now enter into various affairs that have not yet been given judicial epilogues in connection with its functions in its time, but what was certainly its legal jurisdiction, and so far here in this respected home has not been mentioned, is its obligation to implement the electoral process under the Law on the Selection of the People's MPs of the Republic of Serbia, the Supervisory Board of the Serbian Parliament, which would actually oversee the conduct of the elections. How many election cycles in a row are there no monitoring committees? Why did the SNS avoid forming a supervisory board, i.e. why did Maja Gojkovic avoid forming a supervisory board? So, in advance, did the SNS have any idea that she was trying to steal the election? Otherwise, it would not be a single reason not to implement the law and not to form a monitoring committee of the Assembly that would, of course, accompany whether the elections are going in its order. So here's another reason why we can't give our trust on behalf of Parliament group Dveri Maji Gojkovic, because she hasn't exercised another constitutional and legal jurisdiction, and she could. Why? Because she does not think about the implementation of the Constitution and the law, she is thinking with the head of Alexander Vukic, she is thinking of the interests of the SNS and they will always be for her, and that is crucial, be above the interests of the Constitution and the law of the Republic of Serbia. I have proved this on two very characteristic examples, which is the disbanding of four local self-governments to KIM, and this is avoiding the formation of a supervisory board in the Serbian Parliament. So it is clear that we do not get the president of the National Assembly who will be the president of all MPs, regardless of power and opposition. It is clear that we are getting a party pawn who aims to carry out the interests of the government and that the Assembly, as we see it today, is somewhere down a little bit extreme, a little humiliated, a little crushed, that we wait 24 hours earlier to know when the Assembly is sitting at all, that we don't get material, that in every other way we know who's the boss in this country, and that's the government, and who are some of the less important elements that we're going to step on, humiliate, and that we're constantly devising their work, and that's the National Assembly, instead of being exactly the other way around. So, from what we've had a chance to see today in this showcase exercise that she actually intended to implement the SNS parliamentary group, we see actually a vision of Parliament's role in the political thinking of SNS. It is obvious that Maja Gojkovic, who has undoubtedly, as it says here, a rich parliamentary experience, is just saying once again, is rich after flying from party to party or is rich by obedience to party leader, it is for discussion, but the fact is that in her personality SNS sees actually someone who will continue to humiliate the National Assembly and who will actually consider the role of opposition in the National Assembly. Every time the opposition comes forward, 131 SNS MPs will report, who will reject the speech of the opposition MP and thus prevent a quality public debate, even though no one forbids them to take a word, replicate or simply answer for the discussion after our speech. Why did they get the task of making it impossible to hear the word of the opposition in this House? Does that hurt them? I think that's actually the key point of what we've been looking at in these several hours backwards. They are troubled by the new composition of the National Assembly, they see a serious opposition in the ranks of the new National Assembly. As you can see, here they come again, they're getting, they can't stand the word of the opposition, and that's actually what the image of the SNS is. No one argues that they won the election. Let us dispute the way they won – electoral theft, manipulation, irregularity, media darkness, falsified voter lists. This is a subject that we will discuss seriously through the congregation survey committee. The Serbian Progressive Party, and this is my most important message, I assume that Mrs. Maja Gojkovic will be chosen by the ruling majority's will, is not to allow herself to think that she can run the National Assembly without opposition and without giving the opposition the right to hear her voice and without preventing the ruling majority from even allowing the opposition's voice to be heard during that time. What I want to insist on in the end is what Maja Gojkovic missed in the previous term of the National Assembly. She missed to remind her own party, the SNS, of pre-election promises. There are so many broken pre-election promises in the operation of the SNS that it would take us a long time, but to list one of the topics. The famous topic of the fight against crime and corruption for which we have never, for four years now, seen a specific epilogue by the SNS authorities. The law on the origin of the assets of all politicians and tycoons has also been mentioned in the previous 26 years. Has the law been passed by the National Assembly during the chairmanship of Maja Gojkovic? Of course not. How did the fight against crime and SNS corruption end? By raising the champagne toast to Miroslav Miskovic's health at the celebration of 25 years of "Delta Holding". It is a picture of the fight against crime and corruption, and on the other hand there is no law on the investigation of the origin of all politicians and tycoons from 1990 to today. Of course, which is not yet available, and the key issues are the most important state problems, the most difficult existential situations facing Serbian citizens, which were neither mentioned nor very few words under the chairmanship of Maja Gojkovic in the previous National Assembly meeting. Little has been said about the problem of the white plague, that 40,000 citizens die more than they are born on an annual basis, that we have under one child per couple, that we are one of the oldest residents in Europe and the world and that simply one country that has not put up a fight against the white plague as a priority and one Assembly that has not put up a fight against the white plague as a state priority really doesn't deserve to get a transitional assessment and to gain confidence in a new mandate. So no family policies, no family care, no support for birth, young married couples and families with more children, no support for over-indebted families. It's enough to set an example of 20,000 families that have loans indexed in Swiss francs and who, after 10 years of credit repayment, need to pay back more than at the beginning of credit debt. While we are still talking, there is a Swiss camp of overindebted families in front of the government of the Republic of Serbia that you have not offered a solution to their existential problems, and that is the only one in the region, unlike anyone else who has at least made life easier for over-indebted families. You don't mention, of course, not domestic economy, not domestic entrepreneurship, although you have declared a year of domestic entrepreneurship. Billions of euros in our money from the state budget have given foreign companies who come here to take that money, use cheap labour and now export profits abroad, often showing their business with a loss so they don't even pay taxes on profits achieved in Serbia. You humiliated soldiers and police officers by reducing wages and diaries, counter-constitutionally reducing pensions for our oldest citizens, allowing foreign banks to have the highest interest rates across Europe, forgetting Serbs in the environment and Serbs in the diaspora. All of this by Vice-President Maja Gojkovic. I think I simply cited enough reasons why the MP group of the Serbian Movement Dveri does not want their trust to give Maja Gojkovic, on the contrary, to vote against her election to the National Assembly president, especially after today's SNS parliamentary group demonstrated its vision of the National Assembly, the National Assembly in which the opposition of the National Assembly will be denied, where not to talk about what the authorities are doing, but what the opposition is doing, because watch out, the paradox, we are the only country in the world in which the ruling party has accused the opposition of stealing the elections. Well, believe it not that funny. It's tragic. This is proof of one attempt by the ruling party to deprive everything, to abolish everything and to keep Serbia alive only by the SNS, but gentlemen of the progressors are not possible. Now you've got one serious congregation convocation, you've got a serious opposition, get used to it in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52991	He has the word Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52992	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know what you are, Mr. Beard by profession and by education, I didn't understand anything you were saying. You obviously, many things about how the state works don't know, and I think it's a real good thing that the citizens of Serbia didn't show you trust to run this country, because if they showed you the trust Serbia would have failed, I guarantee you in 24 hours. What kind of family values are you talking about, Mr. Obradovic, when you personally physically attacked RIK member Maja Pejčić, insulted her, twisted her hand, you who yelled from the RIK gallery, thieves, villains and stole us, etc. And then something incredible happened. You say Maja Gojkovic is the worst woman in the world because she will listen to Alexander Vukic. No, he needs to listen to you. Who are you listening to? Who brought you together in 24 hours against the SNS and you big russians and opponents of the NATO Pact and opponents of the LGBT population and those who are for the EU and NATO pact and who are for Gay Parad? Who united the professional bankruptcy manager. The citizens have united you. So, who united the professional bankruptcy manager? Who put you all together? What is the factor of the power that the citizens have said, where are those citizens who have such power to unite DS, Sasu Radulovic, Dveri, DSS, etc? Where are those citizens? I saw 200 people in front of RIK the day you protested. So you don't have citizens' support. You have someone else's support.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52993	Don't personally, please, there'll be a replica by tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52994	It's not personal, but they say they've united them. I say it is possible for 200 citizens to unite so many parties to erase all their ideological differences and unite in the fight against the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52995	I remind you of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52996	Now, what I don't understand, Mr. Micunovic, is that someone says he's a patriot, that he's a rusophile, that Alexander Vukic is the greatest traitor and villain because he's running negotiations on the survival of the Serb people in KIM, and then, by some miracle, in the re-election of the Dvora Movement, he gets the most votes in the Shadow at night. Now I'm asking you, who voted for the Dvora Movement in the Shadow, if they really are who they are? As for the fight against crime and corruption, Mr. Obradovic, you correct me if I'm wrong, but the people in Chačka say that your movement was funded by your father, who, if I'm not mistaken, was the building inspector in Chačka racketeering people who have illegally erected objects, so either you give money to the Davery or I'm making a solution to the destruction of illegally erected objects. How is it possible that in the leadership of your Serbian, all Slovenian, Orthodox, I don't know what kind of woman you have, you have an open lady who works for the interests of a foreign force? How is it possible for us to learn about honesty, about patriotism, to be held by you who finance yourself in the way you finance yourself. Tell me, what is your ideological orientation that brought you together with DS, with the Movement Enough, with the members of the LGBT population, so what is it, what is the connective tissue that exists between you but hatred for SNS and Alexander Vukic? You, Mr. Obradovic, have one problem, not only you but also these coalition partners of yours, you will not admit that you lost in the elections, you will not admit that you have entered this National Assembly by putting pressure on RIK, uniting yourself with political parties, which ideologically have nothing to do with you, of course, provided that you and your coalition partners have any ideologies at all. So, I don't know what kind of villain you would have declared me to be, like, Bojan Pajtic. invites people to vote SNS, you don't mind. What you need to know, Mr. Obradovic, and you seem to be weakly following the developments in Serbia's political and legal scene, the Constitutional Court of Serbia has said its own on the Brussels Agreements and said that it cannot be declared because these are not approved international agreements, because the RS has not concluded any international agreement with the self-proclaimed republic of Kosovo, but is conducting political dialogue and has qualified the Brussels Agreements not as legal but as political acts, as acts in which the Constitutional Court values constitutional and legality cannot be declared. So, Mr. Obradovic, before you say a certain difficult word, let's get a little information about what's going on in Serbia, and as far as the electoral theft is concerned, it's not clear to me that you didn't take on that famous election night 24th April, absolutely no single objection to RIK, but you did chase at RIK only when it became mathematically clear to you that you didn't cross those famous 5%s as required to enter the National Assembly. Tell me how you who teach us good behavior here, by the name of which you would call members of the SNS, if they had fallen into RIK in such a way, shouting, threatening, what you said – a bastard, a liar, a fraud, a thief. You beat that girl, Maja Pejčić, in that protest of yours, where I don't know who united you against the SNS, you physically attacked, or your supporters against the journalist "Pinka" Gordana Zelec. So, what name would you call SNS members and activists if they were acting the way you behave? So, Mr. Beard, everything's great what you said. There is only one small problem – you will not be citizens of Serbia. Maybe someone else wants you and whoever wants you somehow pushed you into this National Assembly one way or another. But believe me, without that assistance, you would never see this National Assembly, except on the second journal of RTS or any other information shows. However, you can say whatever you want, you can accuse, you can insult, because you have done nothing but insult Maja Gojkovic. You say you stand for family values, and you make the most of the possible insults for a woman, so one gentleman and one gentleman and someone who's supposed to be attached to family values don't behave like that. Someone who's attached to family values, I don't know how he feels about being a flag in rainbow colors. How come the LGBP population bothers you every day, you just didn't mind the day you protested in front of the Republic Election Commission? So where are the criteria and where are the criteria? How come one day you're a great Serb, a great patriot, advocacy of co-operation with Russia, and then you say – Vukic stole us and came to help whom? The OSCE mission, the Council of Europe, to bring Europe's observers to Serbia's re-election. Why didn't you look for Russian observers, if you're such a great friend of Russia? After all, Mr. Obradovic, the official Russia is, I hope you follow so much, let's understand why you don't follow what the Constitutional Court is doing, maybe you're not a lawyer, I guess you're being thoroughly informed. Are you familiar with the fact that Vladimir Putin and Dimitri Medvedev congratulated on the victory of Aleksandra Vukic and SNS in the elections held on 24 April, I assume you've heard of it? I didn't make it up. You can say all the worst for me, the people who run the Russian Federation congratulated the SNS on winning. As far as KIM is concerned, if we were such villains as you represent us, we wouldn't get the most votes in KIM. It is not KIM, Serbs did not vote in KIM, so Serbs voted in the KIM list for Alexander Vukic and SNS. Why? Because he allowed them to stay on their centuries-old hearths. The Serbian banners are also harvested in Zubin Potok and in Gracanica and in all other places where Serbs live on KIM, and in Strpec there is a Serbian banner, and the question is whether you would see yourself running this country – of course you would not. You run a policy irresponsible, adventurous because you have no responsibility to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You are one small coalition that asks God how he entered this National Assembly, according to the citizens of Serbia and the future of Serbia, you have no obligation whatsoever. Unlike you, we have this obligation and how we have it. We have accepted on our backs a very difficult burden – and to carry out the burden of economic reforms, and to carry out the burden of reform in all areas of social life, and to preserve KIM in the composition of Serbia in the way it is at this moment the only possible. Do you think, Mr. Obradovic, that I would not wish a Serb soldier and a Serb policeman were present at KIM? Is that possible at this point? It's not. Let's see what's possible. It is possible to save what is being saved and that is what the Government of the Republic of Serbia, led by Alexander Vukic, is doing. If you think differently, here, let's you and I go gun in hand, to Kim, and defend the Serbs. It is easy to be, Mr. Obradovic, a great Serb and a great patriot here in the Assembly, in Nikola Pasic Square, but it is difficult to be a Serb at KIM. What do Serbs think of KIM about the government policy led by Aleksandar Vukic towards KIM, they told you on April 24th. The best results we've achieved right on KIM, better results on KIM we've achieved than we've achieved, for example. in some municipalities in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. What does that tell you? This tells you that the only policy possible when it comes to KIM policy led by SNS and Alexander Vukic. You have another problem, you live in your world, in the imaginary world. You do not want to accept political reality, and the political reality is that you have been assessed by Serbian citizens by not crossing the censorship, but some force did push you into the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but don't think that's why you're very strong. Every force is in time and every force will pass.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52997	The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52998	Mr. Micunovic, Alexander Martinovic has mutilated the spirit of this Rules of Procedure himself. He accuses the Dvora of putting pressure on RIK. They're not Dwri, they can't Dwri, they can't DSS. This is Kyle Scott's radio, and say that name - Kyle Scott. The Ceda-Boris-Canak coalition couldn't pressure RIK, they couldn't change the election results. It's Kyle Scott's radio, he's been pushing both RIK and the Republic Statistics Service, and your government has caved in when he intervened, your authority has receded, you've become afraid of Scott. You are not allowed here in any word to mention Scott and ask the question - who is, who is, who is, who is? Well, here it is, either Risticevic or me, five and ten, it's not Scott. It's a shame to now sharpen the saber on Twors and DSS or someone third, on Scott. Scott got involved in your country management, Scott's leading word. Eliminate Scott.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u52999	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. I've got to get to the Rules of Procedure first, and then the replicas will come. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u53000	Thank you, Mr. Micunović. Articles 106 and 107. By the way, I've been waiting a long time to pick up. First, 106, because the speaker absolutely didn't talk about the subject, he talked about everything except the subject, and in 107, he hurt his dignity on two occasions. First he said about Mrs Gojkovic, I'm talking about Mr Obradovic, that Mrs Gojkovic is thinking about someone else's head. You know what, it's a very ugly insult, but I'm not talking about Mr. Obradovic thinking about someone else's head, his former associates saying No, it's not a replica, one more thing's an injury. [[President: Wait, now this is a replica, please.]] He is told by his former associates that he is thinking with someone else's head and that of Mrs. Jasmine Vujic, otherwise an American army official, who is now his adviser. She's the one who actually serves him how to get a haircut, how to look like him, how to speak, how to change the culture of speech, etc. etc. So that's what his former associates say, that he's thinking about someone else's head. On the other hand, I warn you, Mr. Micunovic, once again, someone claims this is an illegal parliament. Don't sit here, gentlemen, go outside, crucify the tents, protest, do something, and don't give any legitimacy if you're stolen, because that's how you legalize theft. We're looking for a survey board to determine how you stole the election and entered the Assembly, and here you seem to be for a plate of beans in that restaurant agreeing to agree to the theft, which you claim was so drastic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u53001	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Djordje Vukadinovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u53002	Thank you, Mr. Micunovic. Article 107. (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the place: He can't, I've been invited. ) May, for the sake of Martinovic, the dignity of the National Assembly. Also, Mr. Micunović, please, if possible, allow me to speak for two or three minutes. Secondly, I, dear colleagues, listened to you very carefully, silenced all my colleagues here when they responded to various things that were not easy to keep quiet about. So, I listen very carefully, I lean, lean to hear the better, and you hear me, and then answer and replicate. What's the breach of the Rules of Procedure, article 107? Why was the dignity of the congregation injured? It has been injured in many ways, in many aspects, but first of all by Mr Martinovic being here, and not as anyone, but as head of the parliamentary group, the strongest and largest parliamentary groups, said that someone had forced someone into the Assembly. It is an insult to this House, to all MPs and to me personally. In that sense, he is euphemistically asking questions -- who did it, who united you, you entered into force, what is your ideology? We were united by the arrogance of the current government and Alexander Vukic. If he hadn't announced at ten o'clock in the evening that three, according to his data, were more reliable than RIK and CESIDA, three lists do not cross the censorship, three Scotts, ten Scotts of the CIA and the KGB would have failed to unite such a divided opposition. You gentlemen have taken a step towards that unification.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u53003	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u53004	I'm not defending Scott, I'm just saying that no one is capable of uniting Serbs as a Serbian haughtiness... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u53005	Time. Thank you. First things first.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u53006	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, first of all, let me make sure someone doesn't rip off my balcony. I'm advertising Article 103, 27, etc. Mr. Chairman, I've reported myself multiple times for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but unlike those where it's never enough, unlike the new Vlach's political...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u53007	Please, the injured member, Mr. Risticevic?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u53008	I said 27, 103, 106, 107. So Article 103 says the MP has the right to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I've tried it many times, but apparently you have two standards, one for me, and the other for these there. I've been brought here in contact with some people who are winners of the balcony jumps. Mr. Seselj, I have nothing to do with Scott. Unlike you, I think the pressure on the Election Commission, on the Bureau of Statistics, on the members of the RIK, which is inadmissible, because imagine that someone in Washington broke into the Serbian embassy, if they had broken into the Central American Election Commission during the vote count, what would that be? Please don't get me involved with that Scott, 'cause I think there's been more bastards involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u53009	Here you go, Mr. Beard.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u53010	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Martinovic is extremely inspiring that we may even better underline some of our basic thoughts. That SNS is extremely well aware of who Mr. Sergei Železnjak, vice president of the Russian Duma, knows very well who Mr. Alexei Pushkov, the head of the Russian Parliament's Foreign Affairs Committee, and may not tell the Serbian citizens that these two of the most important figures for Russia's foreign policy have just congratulated the entry of our election list Dveri – DSS into the Serbian Parliament. I understand that the SNS wants to keep the monopoly on dealing with Russia, but it's just not possible. It is obvious that Russia is increasingly less trusted by the SNS and more and more by other political forces in Serbia. The second thing, the biggest election theft was right in Kosovo and Metohija, where we had no right to keep boxes, or members of the election boards, or to participate in the vote count, so that it could vote for SNS in Kosovo Mitrovica, and sign with Cyrillic and Serbian names and last names. Very interesting, Mr. Martinovic. As for the gay parade, you're the experts on it, I wouldn't go into it, you organize gay parades. When you say gay parade, it's the same Serbian Progressive Party. And, of course, what is particularly important to me, because I am personally offended here by who knows which path by the coalition around the SNS, as far as Chačka is concerned, I think that the results of your Minister Velimir Ilic who has just brought it out, and in court is unable to prove and escape from court hearings, these various disqualifications, insults, lies and slanders, which has been disastrously defeated by Dvori in the town of Cačka, and you should know, gentlemen of the advances, that you have lost to the Dvori in nine polling places in the town of Cacca and that it is actually a picture of the future development of political life in Serbia. So, 24% of the vote for the Dveri in Chakra says best what the Chacans think of your qualifications and me and my family.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u53011	Time. The word has been given by the MP Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u53012	Thank you, Chairman. I would like once again to remind you that the topic of the debate is the election of the president of the National Assembly. I understand that it is interesting to discuss Russia, Kosovo, the Brussels Agreement, election theft, Savamalaj etc., these are all interesting topics, talk about the Committee of Auditors, etc., however, the theme of this session is the election of the National Assembly president. Since this Rules of Procedure says that the speaker can only talk about the point of the agenda under investigation, then we should stick to the Rules of Procedure, because if we do not stick to the Rules of Procedure, we send a message to Serbian citizens that we do not respect the rules, that we do not respect the laws, and then citizens can understand that they are neither valid for them nor for the MPs. I'd ask everyone once more to stick to the agenda. If someone wants to change the Rules of Procedure, so that he is different and that he is a member who says he can be offended, talk about anything, talk about anything, be able to vote and throw, then suggest that we discuss such a single Rules of Procedure and vote on it. However, while this Rules of Procedure is valid, we should stick to it, and that main point that we should stick to is to talk only about the agenda point, and I will remind you once again, it is the election of the National Assembly president. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-03-0.u53013	Gentlemen of the People, we work ten hours out of ten, and now it's eight o'clock. We still have 33 speakers and several authorized men who can speak for half an hour. So, I'm scheduled to resume my session Monday at 10.00 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to open the session. As you know, age is a privilege, and I'd rather be the youngest than the oldest MP here, but that's how it is. On the other hand, I am the oldest MP in this assembly, and the only one who has been an MP since the early 1990s. So let me say a few words, if they finish the gentlemen and take their seats, I will continue. I'm asking the photographers to leave the O.R. and allow us to continue our session. Ladies and gentlemen, we'll start again. I welcome you and wish you success. At the same time, I'm asking all my colleagues to do the session's work today. I said I was looking for a little privilege to say a few words and I'm going to say that and it won't be any speech. Given the fact that I am the oldest and the oldest and half-years old, I want to say a few words, especially to those who enter parliament for the first time. We are obliged to preserve Parliament's dignity. We have to protect him, first of all, and that's what's called a humanity, and then from the insolence of all the other parts of the government that we would like to usurp his jurisdiction and humiliate him in various ways. Therefore, I appeal, if we want to preserve dignity, let us keep it in all sights. We are gathered here people, his representatives and bearers of his sovereignty. No other authority can be above this power. We must be aware of that and respect that dignity. Secondly, let's respect each other, let's respect the Rules of Procedure, let's address the chair rather than any fellow Members, especially let's choose our words. There's not a thing that can't be said in the finest words and that has a sharpness at the same time. We need tolerance, because there is a lot of intolerance and hatred, and it is not good that, since we are in front of the mirror of the people every day, we take pictures, we teach the people how to behave, and the good work will be done by the congregation. I wish you all a lot of success in your work, preserving Parliament's dignity, full of tolerance for the country's progress. I hope you'll help me get this session done as clean, clear as possible, without a lot of delays and interruptions, and leave all the other passions for another session. Please first listen to the state anthem of the Republic of Serbia. (Intonation of the Anthem "God of Justice") I would like to inform you that today's session of the National Assembly, next to the MPs, is attended by members of the Republic Election Commission. I remind you that, according to Article 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, First (Constitutive) session of the National Assembly for the selection of the National Assembly president, chair, as you have already heard, the oldest National MP, who is assisted by one of the youngest MPs with four electoral lists who received the largest number of seats and the Secretary-General of the National Assembly, or his deputy. Please read the names.
