ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10562	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the sitting is attended by 89 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 88 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's MP Zoran Radojićic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10563	Dear chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, I would like to ask a few questions for the defence minister. Is it true that in August 2015, the Ministry of Defence gave members of the Serbian Army the use of energy juices from the Kruševci "Rubin", which expired in June of that year and were assured that the juices were safe to use? The Serbian Army received a donation of about 2,000 litres of Zum energy drink during July and August 2014. In addition to the juices, the "Rubin" act arrived in the units from June 25, 2014, which states that the juices are safe to use even though they run out of use. All is confirmed by the Act of the Directorate for Logistics of the General Staff, Internal Number 4690-84 of 26 June 2014. Question number two - is it true that the Ministry of Defence in one barracks in Panchev paid for the reconstruction of the 352 thousand-euro range, which was declared unsecured for use and put out of use immediately after the reconstruction was carried out? In August 2014, works were carried out on the reconstruction and modernisation of the shooting range in the barracks "Rasko Nemmanic" in Pančevo. There's a special brigade headquarters, as we know. The orderer was the Belgrade Military Construction Centre. The works cost 43 million 319 thousand 500 dinars. Special Brigade Command No. 622-1 of 19 January 2016 prohibits the execution of all types of shootings on this range because it is also insecure. Question number three - is it true that the company that performed the shooting work, along the way to Brigadier General Veličković, the Special Brigade Commander, made a cottage that cost about 30,000 euros in the Deliblat Cave, the Delibat Lake, the Pancheva municipality, that is, that the company "Zelenilo" from Pančeva has arranged the yard? It is, therefore, about the company “Mova” d.o.o. Kruševac, construction company „ Morava In“ d.o.o. It's a pear. Question number four -- is it true that the Serbian Army bought six thousand sets of broken uniforms from Jumka and how much was paid? The competent authorities in charge of the development and defence technology at the Ministry of Defence, led by General Zrnić Bojan, launched and implemented through the company "Jumko" from Vranja to purchase six thousand sets of the M-10 uniform. It was produced in this quantity, it was paid, delivered to the military, but as intolerant. This term does not know any military rule put into use on the use and expenditure of the Serbian Army's uniform, but it was bought, paid at a full price as if it were correct and given for use, but not for those who needed it and intended it. These sets of uniforms are given only to training centres and soldiers at the service of the military deadline, to be spent as soon as possible, while on the other hand, therefore, professionals, soldiers, elders sometimes wear uniforms that should have been replaced long ago. The question is, who is responsible for the above? What did military quality control do and who allowed it to be produced at all and then later paid for six thousand sets of such uniforms? Why is production not stopped in the first 50 or 100 sets, if such a uniform did not meet the required standards? This usually happens when it comes to certain products supplied for the Serbian Army, but it is still due to the fact that we have abolished the formational sites of the so-called. military controllers, so those who are now in control, so this complex, otherwise responsible job is done with their regular work, so that the military quality control procedure due to lack of time is performed only fictitically often. The result is visible from this. Question number five - Is it true that in the first three months of 2015, the Serbian Army paid materially for its material benefit in the first three months of 2015 because of negligence or with the intention of paying about 60 euros to certain companies that distribute electricity instead of a regular price of 5.155 dinars for megawatt hours? Namely, the Department of General Logistics of the Department of Material Resources of the Ministry of Defence, following the signing of the temporary procurement plan for 2015 in the second half of January 2015, directed the Department for Supply of the Department of Material Resources of the Ministry of Defence to obtain electricity. This was to be concluded by 1 April 2015, but someone from the Ministry of Defence said that it was not possible until then to carry out a procedure that precedes the conclusion of this agreement, so public procurement procedure, procurement of all consent, etc. That's why they had to move on to Article 192, which... (President: Bringing the end. )......................................................................................................... They had to move with a spare supplier of the EPS company to conclude a contract that was far more unfavourable than this for supply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10564	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10565	Thank you. I'd like to ask the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia a question. Namely, two days ago at a press conference, which was transferred to four national television stations and several other local ones, the Prime Minister accused me, counterpart Aleksandra Jerkov, Vuk Jeremic and Sasa Jankovic of being apriors against the state and his people. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I request information from the Prime Minister, on which it is based, or to prove its claim that in any act or action I have done politically in the last 26 years, anything that is against the state and the people. I need such information to continue my work as a MP, given that at the beginning of this term I took an oath to perform my post in accordance with the Constitution and in favour of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. If he can't, and I know he can't find one single act or a statement to prove that I've worked against the state and the people, it'll just mean that the Prime Minister isn't an apriori liar, he's a proven liar. I call on him, if his statement was part of a political campaign then to show that he is not also the biggest coward, political coward, in the Republic of Serbia and that at any time, on any medium, electronically, since he controls today all media in the Republic of Serbia, organizes a TV duel with me or with any of us four who have called traitors and people working against their country and their people, and that after five years we face attitudes and see whose action is useful, and whose less useful for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In this regard, I would ask the question of both the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Health, is my safety at stake today, after such a statement, given that in some past times Alexander Vukic, when he accused people of such things, these people were killed. Do I now have reason to worry about my safety after such a public call sent to the Serbian citizens' theatre? Please, Mr. Chairman, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, which states that the answer to the question is to be asked to the officer, in this way, to deliver to the MP within 15 days, to make sure that these questions are answered, so that it does not remain that I and these three people, together with me, are traitors working against their people and their country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10566	Thank you. The word is by MP Enis Imamovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10567	Thank you, Your Honor. A few days ago, something happened that, we representatives of Bosniaks and other national minorities, warned that there could be a problem in our European integration process and that it could be an obstacle to our country on its way to the EU. Serbia has been blocked by the opening of chapters due to criticism of the education of national minorities. That's why I'm asking my question today to Prime Minister Alexander Vukic, it's about responsibility. Who is responsible for the failures in the preparation of the negotiating chapters, and who will suffer the consequences? We did not go into this process of European integration because of Croatia, nor did we draw our goal to satisfy Croatia's wishes or other EU members. In this process we started for ourselves, because it is our desire to modernise our country and make our country a better place for the lives of its citizens, all its citizens, including members of the national minorities. It's not always responsible for everyone looking for the culprits in others and accusing others that they're responsible for what's happening to us. If what the prime minister is saying is true, we are fully ready to join the EU, there is nothing we need to change, only the EU needs to confirm that the situation in our country is great. For the sake of truth, however, the area of individual and collective rights of members of national minorities is regulated today through three basic laws concerning this matter, with this latest amendment of the law on the rights and freedoms of national minorities being one disaster that has brought confusion to this whole matter. The rights of national minorities, as well as the right to education, are further regulated through 22 different laws, all of which are contradictory to each other, so that the right which one law allows, but the other law contests and thus the rights of members of national minorities revolve around. Croatia did not find hot water when it criticised Serbia for its attitude towards national minorities. We have repeatedly pointed out that we have bad experience when it comes to working on action plans for negotiating chapters concerning minorities, and the government's relationship, the negotiating team and the working groups for drawing up action plans that continue to ignore all the requirements of the Bosniak legitimate representatives. As far as Bosniaks are concerned, the long list of obligations this country has refused to undertake in the process of European integration, starting with the resolution of mass abductions, murders and other crimes committed against Bosniaks in the 1990s, banishing, shelling out Bosniak villages, through the representation of Bosniaks in police, judiciary, prosecution and other state authorities with public authority today, including education, information and equal use of language and letters. The Bosniaks' specific position today is that Bosniaks do not have a national state in the EU that will question the situation of Bosniaks in Serbia or resolve it at EU member level or at bilateral level with Serbia. The responsibility for the situation of Bosniaks in the European integration process is both for Serbia and the EU. Our approach is to solve problems within the institutions of the Republic of Serbia. That's what Parliament's all about. However, statistics tell us that our attempts do not give you too many results. I'll remind the Prime Minister that even when this government was formed, we asked him to join the review of the Minority Action Plan together, and we invited him to work together on it. The government and the prime minister, as you can see, have so far ignored this call and given us a hand to work together on this issue. From the prime minister we heard nothing concrete about what Serbia did on the subject of criticism, we listened in Croatia about its behaviour, about the state of Croatia. However, as far as European integration is concerned, we should not be interested in what is happening in Croatia, we should be interested in what is happening in our country. That is why we are asking the question of responsibility, who is responsible for the failures in the preparation of the negotiating chapters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10568	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10569	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Indeed, you SNS, how many mistakes you make that a man doesn't know what to ask here. I'm asking, under number one, Minister of State and Local Self-Government, we have one municipality in the west of our country, that's Baji's Garden. In Baja's Garden, the local parliament has not met for 127 days. The session of parliament was not held for 127 days. Did you think that someone would remain immune to that, that no one would ask that question? DS committees demanded, for the sake of the citizens of Bajina Basta, that a session of the local parliament be held, which the ruling majority, of course, led by the SNS, did not meet. We know that under the Law on Local Self-Government it is envisaged that when the local parliament does not ambush after 90 days, there are either temporary measures or elections are going. But not temporary measures like when you replaced Dejan Chokic in Mladenov, so you held temporary measures for nine months, against the law too. I ask the Minister's question whether the local parliament, i.e. Bajina Basta municipality, and will there be elections such as in accordance with the regulations of the Republic of Serbia and the Law on Local Self-Government, or will you from the SNS, who knows which way, show that you do not respect the rule of law and the rule of institutions, but respect the rule of Alexander Vukic and SNS, which is a disaster. I ask the second question, on behalf of 880 disreputed and humiliated IMT workers, also humiliated by SNS, who have been in bankruptcy for two years. I ask a question on behalf of 880 IMT workers, why did Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic not answer their third letter? The last memo was sent to him on 2 August 2016. Why didn't IMT workers, 880, earn from Prime Minister Alexander Vukic and SNS, the boasting party, the answer, what about the promises and what about those workers? For the matter to be worse, evidence of your crime and corruption, crime and corruption of the SNS is proof that you want to shut down this factory, to leave another 880 people without existence, without work, to sell your tycoon, like Zvonko Veseinovic, or another tycoon to sell the factory and sell that land. We have a memo here from the Taffe factory in India, which makes four thousand tractors a year, which wanted to be a strategic partner of IMT, even we have this memo. No one from the government of the Republic of Serbia, and no one in charge has responded to this. So you want to shut down the IMT. You don't even want a strategic partner, and that's the Taffe factory from India. Their company president came to Serbia and look at the wonders of no one from the government of the Republic of Serbia, who is crying for investment, did not even want to receive that person. That's why we have 880 people without a job... (Alexander Martinovic: Did you receive it? ) Please provide me here to speak and that Mr. Charming Martinovic does not throw it to me. IMT workers have even done with Professor Dragan Markovic at the Faculty of Engineering and a project to position IMT and to be as huge as they were. The factory has made 800,000 factors, and currently there are over 150,000 tractors in Serbia alone that are in office and these people, farmers, have nowhere to order parts, but in the IMT that you from SNS are shutting down. The next question I ask the president of Parliament and the president of Serbia -- why are the candidates for judges of the Constitutional Court members of the SNS? Is that allowed? Why is Tiana Shurlan on the list of SNS councillors on Vrakar? Why did Snezana Markovic release your politicians in the ATP Vojvodina affair? Why is Dragana Kolarić a member of the SNS board? Is that the independent judiciary you're talking about? Are these independent judges who are independent or are they judges from the SNS General Board? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10570	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10571	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, you will have this confusion... Don't count this gymnastics exercise on me in time. Mr. Chairman, the gentlemen of the party of the former regime have been intruding me. You see how the gymnasts run fast, like the foreign exchanges are split out, but no more, the people won't. That's how they ran to the Euros and the dollar. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, who I worked at IMT, when he made 50,000 tractors, I could answer the question of how the party of the former regime destroyed the tractor factory and how the debt exceeded a few dozen times the capital in IMT. I could say that the factory land was transformed into building land and manipulated, but I'm not obliged to give answers, let the government give. My question to the government is this. To provide me with information on how much the political career of Vuk Jeremic in the UN cost this country? How much did we pay as a nation and state? So I want to know exactly how much money was spent in the euro. We owe it to our people. Also, we owe them individual expenses. Is it true that his salary was $10,000? Is it true that his humble apartment in New York cost 15,000 euros? Is it true that the driver had a salary of $6,000? If I told the euro, I apologize. So, is it true that he had a salary of $10,000, is it true that the apartment cost 15 grand, that's his modest setting-up, is it true that the driver had six thousand dollars? Is it true that 112,000 euros have been paid to move? Is it true that paper and photocopier cost between 250 and 300,000 euros? Is it true that paper and office material cost about 300,000 euros. So that's the people's money and, as the former regime's party says, we owe it to our people to give the right answers. I respect and appreciate that there's a "March on Drin" broadcast there, but in the end it turns out that in "Fight on the Heroes" it's about to go to the "heroes". With that before, we owe it to our citizens to tell them exactly how much it cost the state of Serbia and its citizens. Also, in light of the events where the Protector of Citizens has become a protector, I ask the Assembly, the Government, in accordance with their powers, what will he do about the political savagery of the Citizens' Protector who turned into the protector of Sasa Jankovic, who is obviously chasing a political career, so I don't know what we'll do if the Citizens' Protector is going to defend us in the political forest? So what are we gonna do here if he's into politics? Let's swap with his salary, so we can protect the citizens from the authorities, which would be his job. What will the authorities of the Government and the Assembly do about breaking the Law on the Protector of Citizens, Article 10a, and then giving political statements, already broadcasting political fairy tales, volumes, etc.? What are we going to do about it as a congregation? What will the government do to control the financial business of him and the other one, who is called the Trustee who, now I'm risking, is now going to write me some application? The Commissioner has become a political conspirator. So, everything has been moving since 2012, 2013 and the MPs from that assembly know that I didn't want to vote for their reports for a simple reason, and someone has to answer me if it's true that the Commissioner, or the conspirator, the Protector, the Protector, got from the British embassy 80,000 pounds? General Simovic sold us for £200,000, and I ask – did the two mentioned project receive, i.e. the Trustee and Protector, £80,000, which is something more than 100,000 euros? From that moment on, it dates their misunderstanding with the government. From that moment on, they turn around and make political statements. In this regard, I ask the Assembly – what will it do about the political statements of the two mentioned, one of whom was the minister, vice-president of the assembly, MP, member of the three parties, and acting as an independent? I'm super independent of him. In this regard, what will the Assembly do about making political statements, and what will the government do to control this claim that they have received £80,000 or 100,000 from the British Embassy, as they have since dated their political statements? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10572	The word has a People's Messenger, Nenad Christmas.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10573	Thank you. In Kragujevac, there is a company called Zastava inpro, which until recently employs over 300 employees, and of which 145 employees were disabled workers. The company was originally founded in 2011 and was founded with the intention of organising work for the former flag group, all these companies, in one place and in one company. The company is usually involved in the production of trailers and other metal gallantries. Two months ago, its property, to the most extent, is equipment and machines, since it has no real estate, sold to their partner, the former, French company Trigano, who took over about 160 workers from the 300 workers. Since the company no longer has the means to produce and has nothing to do, it has become practically a technological surplus. In addition, these workers, who could no longer continue to work at the new French firm, remained unpaid for some severances and were on strike two months ago, who were currently interrupted as a hunger strike, but continued to protest, where 28 disabled workers were working in the protest. These are the most difficult people with disabilities, and they're in a bad state of health. In addition to paying back back earnings and connecting work experience, they are asked to be given an adequate social programme by early retirement or otherwise to resolve their status. They wrote alongside the competent ministries and the Serbian prime minister. A question for the Serbian government – why does the government ignore the disabled work of the flag inpro, which is a poor health condition, and are declared a technological surplus? Why did she leave hundreds of thousands of employees in social enterprises without any backlogs and associated employment? We have determined that many legal entities, which are mainly exporting companies, have not been returned to VAT for the months of August and September. The VAT refund deadline for August 1st was 1st, and in September was 1st. Companies got information from the IRS that there's not enough money to get all the companies back at once. A question for the Ministry of Finance and the Tax Administration – how is it possible that in the conditions of budget surpluses, as the finance minister told lawmakers and citizens, there is no money to recover funds? These companies have already paid VAT into the budget and how they may have to wait for vomiting. What did you do with the money they paid? This problem has many other businesses in Serbia, as VAT vomiting is late for all. What act of the Ministry of Finance or the Tax Administration lays down criteria for the order of VAT vomiting in the event of lack of money to pay all legal persons awaiting vomiting? Why are the acts with the criteria for vomiting not publicly available? Citizens of the village of Brzen in the municipality of Batocin informed us that their plots near the river Morava are busy with a natural change of stream of river. Since they are not able to dispose of their parcels, they are fine-tuning property tax solutions. The Law on Public Property, Article 9, reads: “Leads, waterways and their sources, mineral resources, groundwater resources, geo-thermal and other geological resources, mineral raw materials reserves and other goods, which are defined by special law as natural resources in the possession of the Republic of Serbia. “ The water law Article 12(1), which has not otherwise been changed by this new amendment, has the right of the Republic of Serbia to prevent the purchase of waterland. Under the law, landowners who have become water land, because they are occupied by the Morava River, which is owned by the Republic of Serbia, must first offer their parcels to the Republic of Serbia, which has the right to an obstacle to purchase. Goran Milanovic of the village of Brzan, has submitted an offer to sell his parcels to the Ministry of Agriculture and to protect the environment, has not yet received an official response. So, citizens can't afford their property, because it benefits the state without any compensation, and it charges them a tax on property. A question for the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection – when will the Ministry of Agriculture answer the questions of citizens regarding their offers for the purchase of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10574	The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10575	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask the question to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, and the question is: will he support the initiative that the SRS put forward this morning? We have submitted a proposal for the education of the polling committee to determine the facts regarding the murder and the political background of the murder of Zoran Djindjic. You know, as many years as it has been told in public, that many political actors are constantly saying that there is a certain political background, and it is clear that it exists, but it is also clear that so far there is no political will to explore this political background. We in the SRS want to finally put an end to this story, regardless of what Zoran Djindjic and the policy he led, we don't mean anything well. We believe that this topic cannot be put in an ad act until the moment until all facts are fully established, and it is clear that this has not been done to date. That is why, officially, we have submitted a proposal for the education of the survey committee by an urgent procedure, and it is our proposal that the survey committee be made up of five members. Five members are something that, in our opinion, would allow the survey board to be functional and be able to carry out its task. If we accept, our proposal is to say, that the top five parliamentary groups have their representatives on that committee of inquiry, and we believe that if there were more, if we were to, for example. have proposed that 14 parliamentary groups, as many as may currently have to the National Assembly, have their representatives, so that they would be over-moved, that they would be pre-named, and that the work of that committee would be condemned in advance. The deadline we set for the survey committee to carry out the task is 90 days, three months. Again, in our opinion, we believe that this is an optimal deadline, not too short, not too long, quite enough that if serious people do serious work, the committee will get results. Our proposal is for the chairman of the polling committee to be held by an MP proposed by the largest opposition parliamentary group, and for the deputy chairman of the polling committee to be the MP proposed by the largest parliamentary group. What are those reasons? We believe that the government, and this one, as well as all previous ones, had enough and time and resources at its disposal, to determine everything she wanted, and that political will did not exist. He cannot control himself, and he cannot control the regime that has at his disposal and the prosecution in courts and BIA and everything else and has failed to carry out that task, we cannot trust these same people again to carry out this task if we sincerely want it to be completed sometime. The survey committee's exclusive task is to look at the circumstances and determine facts regarding the murder and political background of Zoran Djindjic's murder. We still haven't gone. This committee would not deal with politics or the government of Zoran Djindjic or anything else. So there is a limited task in one sentence, facts and circumstances regarding the murder and political background of Zoran Djindjic's murder. We are asking Alexander Vukic because he is the one who decides and it is clear that without the support of the ruling coalition, this committee will not be able to be formed. I call on all parliamentary groups to support this proposal. He who is well-intentioned, who wants to finally establish the truth, will support him, and I believe that those who do not support the formation of this polling committee do not have the right to ever again take into the mouth of Zoran Djindjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10576	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10577	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I move on to a parliamentary issue relating to the Vrachar City Municipality, I'd like to make a brief introduction. The town municipality of Vračar is famous for it because an initiative for Sasa Radulovic's removal was launched within the municipal board of one party, because of the counterfeiting of the electoral list. I hope they make it. But that's not the point now. The topic is the availability and management of the property of Vračar municipality. A few days ago, there was a hundred days of new municipal government headed by professor. A press conference was held on Sunday. At the press conference, frantic data were heard, and I am now asking the MP question to the MUP, who is already familiar with part of what was done during the DS in Vračar, but I would like to further appeal, that the members of the MUP are particularly concerned with certain facts and data that we could hear at that press conference, and these facts and data come from the revision of several different institutions. It's a DRI, a budget inspection, an internal audit, but it's also an external audit house. Everyone agrees on something, which is that property or a good part of the property of the township of Vrachar is gone. We've lost squares of business space. And not a small number, but 5354 square meters of business space is gone, evaporated. It used to be, it's gone. I ask the question – who is responsible for it? Where did those squares go? What has also been determined is a great debt. That's what we talked about at one of the last sessions, 780 million dinars of debt. We know they didn't even try to make it, we know they didn't do anything to try to sue, to charge, to vote for the funds that belong to them. What's symptomatic, it's symptomatic and we haven't talked about it so far, and these are apartments. The audit found, i.e. by checking the documentation, that there are 70 non-existent apartments, or that there are no 70 apartments, to express myself better. Seventy apartments from the Vračar Business Area Fund are gone, evaporated. Radoslav Milojic: Who are you asking? The Ministry of the Interior. Don't throw it at me. Madam President, tell him not to throw it at me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10578	You know it's important that I hear you, and I've heard you say it several times by the Home Secretary.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10579	Thank you. Therefore, out of 421 apartments, Vračar municipality cannot currently use 160 apartments for various reasons, but 70 apartments are missing, or there is no documentation from which it can be concluded what happened to those apartments. There are also several examples of non-domestic business, examples of obvious abuses, and this is the situation in Smiljanić's number 21, on Vrakar. Therefore, the resolution of the competent authority, the Municipal Committee on Business and Finance of Vračar Municipality, the investor “Invest Bureau” has been granted real estate, building land and a basement apartment at Smiljanić's 21st, a total of 3.6 acres and a 31st-square apartment, for the destruction and construction of a multi-story residential building, with the obligation of investors to make up for the municipality in another real estate. If I translate, the municipality has paid three acres in order to build a building there, so that the municipalities will receive a refund, or compensation in squares. The building was built, the building was nickeled, but the investor failed to fulfil its obligation, i.e. the municipality did not receive its squares. When the dispute took place, when it was due to be sued, when the municipality had to vote for what belonged to it, which is the value of over 63 million dinars, the municipality did not take all the appropriate steps, it did not have 100,000 dinars to pay a fee to maintain the additional hearing. This procedure itself has not been conducted and the municipality has lost 63 million dinars, or translated into squares as much as it already is. So, that's obvious evidence that the thief's act on this municipality led, I repeat, because of Serbian citizens, the Democratic Party has been going on for 20 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10580	Thank you. As no one has been reported to request notice under Article 287, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that only Ambassador Nenad Konstantinovic has reported that he will not be present at this session. Today's session is attended by Agriculture and Environmental Protection Minister Branislav Nedimovic, along with his associates. You have received amendments submitted by MPs on the draft law, as well as by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. You have received reports from the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic. Do you want a word after this amendment? (No) Nenad Canak, Goran Cabradi, Marinika Tepic, Nada Lazic and Olena Papuga together submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Goran Jesic, Gordana Komic, Goran Ćirić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Maja Vidinović, Natasa Vukković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic and Veroljub Stevanović submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word on this amendment? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Canak, Goran Cabradi, Marinika Tepic, Nada Lazic and Olena Papuga submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dejan Sulkic, Milan Lapcevic and Gorica Gajic together submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Dejan Šulkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10581	Thank you. We want the proposed amendment to define deadlines for taking action from the minister's competence on the implementation of the IPARD programme. We support the implementation of this programme, but we generally believe that the amendment and addition of this law, and I have submitted several amendments in this direction, I will give one general explanation, no deadlines for taking these actions are defined. The reasons for which the amendment was rejected states that this has already been defined by some methodology. However, neither in law nor in principle, these deadlines were discussed, and we simply feel that this is important. When we talk about the deadlines for implementing this programme, we suggest that the deadlines for meeting the conditions by the users of these funds will be very precise and restrictively defined, while on the other hand, we heard in a principle debate from the minister that in April of the month competitions will be prepared and that we can expect that at the end of this year, or somewhere in the autumn, some competition. So, he thinks these deadlines should be defined. Therefore, for all the powers conferred on the Minister in the amendments and additions to this law, deadlines should be defined in which the minister will act, i.e. to implement practically the law that will be adopted at this session. I'm not talking about the importance of the IPARD program. We are generally interested in fully respecting the principle of public work.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10582	You want to spend five minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10583	Later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10584	All right. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10585	Thank you. We have submitted an amendment to the deadlines related to the implementation of the IPARD programme. So we simply think it is unacceptable to have procedures this long, that nine months from the start of the response procedure, and on the other hand within six months, it is appropriate to respond to the request. We believe first of all that this first nine-month deadline, given that this second one is somewhere defined by the IPRARD program, this first deadline should be shorter given that we are already very late with the IPARD program. That's what we talked about in the principle debate, we have to do everything we can to train the administration to meet farmers' demands in a very short time. So that's something that needs to change here, because we've lost time, we haven't been effective, we haven't focused on the IPARD program due to different situations, choices, changes in ministers, and it's logical that we can't expect the efficiency of the government, the efficiency of the ministry. Now we are in a situation where we do not have that luxury that we can say – nine months will take us to process a request or not. It simply has to go far faster and in that sense our amendment has been submitted, with the goal of trying to replace all of this missed time that we missed in the previous period. Minister, I hope and expect that you will be far more effective than your predecessors and that citizens, or farmers of Serbia, will be able to expect funds and support from the IPARD programme, at least those who can meet the strict conditions of the IPARD programme, which are defined by the criteria in the programme itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10586	The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10587	Dear Chairman, honourable Members, I would just like to say a few words in the context of this amendment. The first part, the first speaker he spoke of, there are methodological rules on the basis of which responsible persons are determined, deadlines are set. It's part of sublegal acts and part of our legal system, and it's not necessary in every single law to prescribe those rules. To me it's quite clear why you did this, you wanted to point out the importance of deadlines, the importance of decision-makers, but I'm just going to say, because of the consistency of all the rules that are being made, it's very important that we have it all sublimed and there's no need to define these rules in each act in particular. In relation to this second part of the exposure, this nine-month deadline is foreseen for the most complex items and we've worked in accordance with experience, the best practices in the environment that have had the opportunity to meet this kind of project, we have even individual countries that have longer deadlines. Of course, these are the maximum deadline all simpler items will be in a much shorter time, even within a few days or a few weeks. This second deadline, which is related to the adoption of a solution, the approval of payments, established a specific sectoral agreement, and there was no room for any other definitions. What I'm trying to say is that all the decisions that will be made through these procedures are defined, we will in the next year of 2017 and our national funds that we spend, adapt to procedures and already train until the moment we discuss the first call there in the third quarter of next year. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10588	Thank you. (Miroslav Aleksic: Replica. You have no right to a replica, Mr. Alexic. He interpreted you well. Anyone else want a word by amendment? Yeah. ) From the time of power. [[Miroslav Aleksic: Please replica, I am authorized.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10589	Thank you. I appreciate what you've said, Mr. Minister, but I have a problem that says within a period of time, not within a period of time, if it were within a period of time, then I would accept that these complex objects really require a certain amount of time, and that we can before that. So here this provision in this article of the law practically protects you that you can meet all requirements within nine months. Also, I have to, I'm going to use the time of power to mention what's defined in Article 4, actually, where you're closer to prescribing faces. What was the idea of our amendment that we've submitted is that you're the one who's making the rules that's getting closer to your faces. He felt that the member was not very happy because it turns out that the minister himself can determine who will be entitled to the funds from the IPARD programme or not. We simply think that there is only one other way to rephrase and adopt the rule that you will bring and which will prescribe which persons are entitled to use the means in this programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10590	Minister Branislav Nedimovic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10591	I thank you, for the sake of the public, for the short time, for the time being. The IPARD programme, which was adopted, defined criteria, defined persons who could and the way in which approval is brought. There is no minister anywhere that the minister has any discretionary right in this regard. And, as far as other matters are concerned, do not have any dilemma about the urgency of speed and desire to establish and approve projects based on IPARD as soon as possible. One of the reasons we've proposed this law is to get into this system as soon as possible. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10592	Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10593	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, you have violated Article 27, which says that the president, or chairman of the National Assembly of the Elders on the application of the Rules of Procedure, has given your word to the Minister for Replica. The Minister, in accordance with this contrived Rules of Procedure, and also the Rules of Procedure that you are obliged to respect, has no right to replicate. In line with the Rules of Procedure, the minister can talk about the amendment, once to two minutes and he used his right to do so, had the right to reply to whose discussion he referred and whose discussion he discussed, whose discussion and proposed solutions he criticised. After that, the minister has no right to reply. No, what he said is short, it's not an excuse, it can't be a second, it doesn't matter which minister, it doesn't matter what the subject is, it has no right, so it's defined by the Rules of Procedure, once two minutes and more. Therefore, I invite you, Mr Arsic, not only now to admit that you have violated the Rules of Procedure, but to break that practice so that the minister can think of anything, because it is a practice here. Ministers can do anything, MPs have much less time. The minister can do any amendment, MPs can't. The minister can do a total of three hours, MPs can do much less. You're denying us a little rights, and you're giving ministers the rights they don't have. I expect from you, not your arbitrary interpretation, but to read me a member of the Rules of Procedure according to which you gave your word to the Minister, and I claim that there is no member because it does not exist. I read the Rules of Procedure unlike you. You're leading him by your democratic sense that you obviously don't own.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10594	Mr. Sarovic, I am not running a session in my democratic sense, but in my Rules of Procedure. Article 116 The Rules of Procedure say: the provisions of this Rules of Procedure at the meeting of the National Assembly shall apply to other participants in the session of the National Assembly. And you're right when you say that ministers have certain rights under one condition, that they are legislators. If the People's MP were the legislator of the law, he would have the same right for two minutes per amendment to come forward whenever he wants to, he would have the right to a replica. And no one's rights are increased or denied. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Inemnja Sarovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. No, two injuries one after the other, Mr. Sarovic. I'm the one who answered your question. We don't want to run the business. Nemanja Sarovic: Again in the Rules of Procedure. ) Again in the Rules of Well, I can't do two injuries. So it's the Rules of Procedure again?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10595	It's the Rules of Procedure again. Mr. Arsic, the dignity of the National Assembly has been violated. It's hurt that you won't let me make a statement about whether I want the National Assembly to declare this in voting day. When the Rules of Procedure say that the MP has the right to plead, it does not mean that we should wave, throw or make any concerted action known to you whether or not he wanted to vote on this vote. I have no right to conduct further discussion, but I have the right to plead. The statement implies that you give me your word and then I say that the citizens could hear it in direct transmission whether I want to or not. And you've denied me this right. And, second violation of the Rules of Procedure, what you say is, that the Minister, to apply the provisions of the Rules of Procedure to all participants. No, it's not true. You're absolutely wrong, and it doesn't matter if the MP is a proposing or not, because another member of the Rules of Procedure regulates, and you don't know which member, here, I'm saying now that you don't know. You, deny me. Another member of the Rules of Procedure particularly regulates the minister's participation in the debate in particular. And no general provision can be applied. So it's just not true. It's applied. When it says - it applies to other participants, it means provisions on punishment, for example, to punish the minister. To punish anyone else who comes to insult the Messengers of the people. And you're just what's negative for the MPs and it's always a negative interpretation that we have fewer rights, and when it comes to ministers, it's always a broad interpretation that they can do anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10596	Mr. Sarovic, everyone has heard that I asked you if you wanted the Assembly to make a statement in the voting day on the violation of the Rules of Procedure that you advertised. It's your view of the Rules of Procedure. Otherwise, the work of this session is regulated by Article 158. Rules of Procedure. You see, for all I know, read article 158. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) There are no more Rules of Procedure, so we will not be having any discussions on the Rules of Procedure. The amendment was submitted by Professor Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. (Nenja Sarovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure, you cannot give me a word. I checked in with the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10597	NEMANJA ŠAROVić: So here is for the public, Mr Arsic, what you said in 158, it was my intention and it was to make you say which member of the Rules of Procedure that regulates the participation of the minister in the part of the debate in particular. The next question is, what does this member of the Rules of Procedure say? He says: “The legislator, or authorised representative of the legislator, has the right to speak of each amendment for up to two minutes, with the total duration of the search in particular on this basis cannot be longer than three hours. ” Minister once or two minutes – Article 158, still no. So, you hurt the Rules of Procedure by giving the word to the Minister, and I ask you to introduce order in the O.R., because the MP of the ruling coalition threatens the masses and apparently suggests that you are in violation of this Rules of Procedure in the future and you are not giving words to the MPs of the opposition who appear to indicate this violation. I recommend to the ruling coalition that if they have something, let them say...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10598	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10599	Here, I'm done. Let them say it. Have political courage... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10600	Mr. Sharovich... (I Nemanja Sarovic, from the post: Do not let the Rules of Procedure and the Chairman be buzzed... Is that what you said about us being masquerade? Did you say that? I give you a warning, Mr. Sarovic. (Inemnja Sarovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miladin Ševarlic. (Inemnja Sarovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. Keep going, buddy. In accordance with Article 112, I'm setting a two-minute break. [[after breaks]] We're moving on with our work. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) The word has the People's Messenger Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. I called before he did. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10602	I ask you to turn off my time, as I cannot speak, since Ambassador Sarovic is right next to me and no one will hear me. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. [[off microphone]] )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10603	Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10604	Mrs. Gojkovic, it's good to have you back, because Mr. Arsic has violated several members of the Rules of Procedure. This time, and that's why I'm reporting right now, a member of 109 has been violated and a member of 112 has been broken. Article 112 determines when the president, or the chair, can call on the member and set a break, and the member says that if the president of the National Assembly is unable to maintain order on a regular basis at the session, he will set a break until order is established. There was no mess here, absolutely no mess, except there were violations of the Rules of Procedure by the chairman, which is a violation of article 109, which says when a warning is made to the MP. Veroljub Arsic gave me a warning for no reason after he turned off my microphone, so he didn't even hear what I said, and he was informed, and falsely, of the MPs of the ruling coalition what I said. If you had a little cheek, Mr. Arsic, you'd admit it and never allow yourself to react and make warnings about something you haven't heard...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10605	You can't address him directly, you're breaking the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10606	... for something others tell you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10607	You can't talk to him directly.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10608	I address him as the chairman directly.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10609	But you can't, he doesn't chair.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10610	So Veroljub Arsic didn't even hear what I said. He asked what I said, and others told him that I allegedly said that the chairmans were buzzers, which is not true. I said something else. He gave me a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10611	What did you say?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10612	I said I shouldn't have the Rules of Procedure and the chairman be the names of the ruling coalition.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10613	There.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10614	That's what I said.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10615	It's not a neck. It's a neck.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10616	No, it's not a neck, it's a completely different meaning.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10617	Okay, thank you. Thank you, MP, we'll discuss this during the session. Article 116 is crucial... (Inemnja Sarovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. No, you can't anymore. I'll take your time every time you abuse the Rules of Procedure. (Inemnja Sarovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. No, you can't. Now I'm going to give you a heads-up about this kind of behavior. Don't harass the assembly. You won't even let me finish my sentence. I wanted to listen to what you said, you said, and then you said, "A violation of the Rules of Procedure, in half the word of the phrase I have spoken." Sit down. I won't let you. I'll take your time from the entire assembly, no matter how long you stand up. This is now the abuse of the Rules of Procedure. There is no breach of the Rules of Procedure during the President's reply. So, sit down, calm down and let me answer you. How many seconds do you need to sit down and act like all the other MPs who behave politely? So, Article 116, which caused such a revolt, speaks of the fact that the Rules of Procedure apply to other participants in the National Assembly session. Sit down. So you don't know the Rules of Procedure. It is his right to give you a reminder of the word for which you have spoken. No one's buzzed around here. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, from the city: You were not present at all. He didn't say in that context. Yes, yes, I was present. Don't worry about anything. Let's keep working. We don't have time here, or people who want to play here... Ambassador, did you have a word? (Inemnja Sarovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. ( A) What member? You have to say which member, because you've already used everything. (Inemnja Sarovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. I can't hear you at all. Ambassador Chevarlich, did you intend to talk about the amendment? Please sign in, I'll give you my word. (Inemnja Sarovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) Do not abuse the Rules of Procedure according to the evaluation of the chairperson who runs the session under Article 27. (Inemnja Sarovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. I give you a warning about this kind of behavior. So, MP, you don't give another MP who has an amendment to discuss. Your behavior is scandalous in today's session. (Inemnja Sarovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. I give you another warning. Now you can leave the session, you have three warnings. With great pleasure, because this assembly will be a place for decent people, I guarantee it. (Inemnja Sarovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. You don't have a word anymore, I'm sorry, you don't have a word, I'm taking your word for it. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. (Inemnja Sarovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. You're a bad imitation of the president of your party. I can ask Ambassador Chevarlich to press the button so I can give him the microphone. If you don't want to, my God.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10618	Your Honor, Madam President, I want to speak, but I think these are conditions that are not suitable for speaking, especially since the MP is so close to me, so I won't be able to say anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10619	Thank you for your suggestion. If you'd like, we have a couple hundred amendments, I wouldn't be guessing.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10620	The MP is so close to me, I won't be able to say anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10621	Discuss the matter with the MP whose word has been taken away.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10622	I'm not here to lead the order, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10623	Thank you, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10624	Let me talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10625	Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10626	So, I have submitted an amendment to Article 7(3) of Article 33, given that the funds for incentives in agriculture and rural development, and despite the increase we have been talking about, have been relatively modestly increased compared to, say, the funds that were in 2013 when they amounted to 34 billion dinars, and therefore I propose that, instead of those interval groups listed in Article 7 paragraph 3 of 20 to 30 million, additional classifications on two interval groups, from 40 to 50 million and maximum of 50 million. On this basis, it is practically possible for a relatively higher number of users to use such relatively modest means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10627	The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Goran Cabradi, Marinika Tepic, Nada Lazic and Olena Papuga. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 6th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Milija Miletic. Would you like a word, MP? (Yes) (Marian Risticevic: A, you skipped me. I can't when you yell, I really can't run a session like that. They just haven't taught me in 53 years of my life that everyone yells and runs a session.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10628	Thank you. I have submitted an amendment to Article 6 and related to the IPARD implementation process. As part of the article, certain things, as requested for approval of the project, are scheduled to take place within nine months, I suggested that it be there for six months and at the request for payment of the funds to be made within six months, I suggested there to be four months. The reason is that we'd like people who want to use the IPARD program, that these people can finish that job early, get funds and normally work, work. There will be enough time for six months, or four months to pay off, and we think it will be just the way it should be for our agricultural producers. One more thing about this article 6, I've put in that if by mistake people get the funds, so they can't justify it in the right way, that's where I filed a request, to get those people's funds back to the IPARD in 21 days, that's where they were proposed for eight days. I think there's a large number of our people, our farmers, who are ignorant and who simply can't do that part of the job by themselves if some mistake is made. I've suggested that these people be everything I've written in this amendment, but they must be vets. We agreed on our committee and we proposed another amendment to include veterinary science, veterinarians being involved in the sphere, to be controllers, because I think that the veterinary service and the people on the ground will be very active and their profession and their science. Veterinary science is very important for agriculture, livestock, dairy, which is very important in this IPARD programme. I hope that in the next period the veterinary profession will be much more appreciated and once again, I call on all fellow Members to support this amendment of mine, because I think it's good. In the end, I agree with both the government and the competent minister, because he did the right thing, but this was my proposal with the intention of giving our agricultural producers the opportunity to compete faster and make it easier and more convincing for them. As far as veterinarians are concerned, I call once again on everyone here in the Assembly, citizens of Serbia, to support the veterinary profession, the veterinarians, because they are people who are in the field, who are doing hard work, and therefore must be much more appreciated, and not as they have been done so so far, because the wind is a very important science in our society.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10629	Thank you. Members of the LSV parliamentary group submitted together to Article 6 of the amendment. Would you like a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10630	I thank the president. Dear guests from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, colleagues and fellow MPs. First, I have to express great dissatisfaction because no amendment to LSV has been accepted, and even this amendment that essentially refers to almost the same thing is noticed by the predecessor, and that is to cut the deadline for the administration of projects. The current bill provides for nine months plus six, which means that you, almost a year and a half, will leave additional space for administration with submitted requests for the use of funds from the IPARD programme, or fund, which for us is an unauthorized long period in relation to this initial delay due to blocking factors for non-accreditation of the Agrarian Payments Authority. You said that in April of the month you expect the conditions to be obtained for accreditation, that by the end of the year you can initiate the first request, which technically, if you perform a simple bill, means December month plus almost a year and a half you have already stepped down fat in 2018 when the deadline for withdrawing the first tranche of 15m euros. I'll also use the time of power. I would further like to now, although I didn't have that impression on Tuesday when we were having a principle debate, however, several colleagues from the ruling majority have encouraged me to believe that these hunches were real, and I am definitely seeing for myself that they are, and that in these last two days since the principle debate, so to this day, an extremely large number of conversations have been made between the LSV parliamentary group and our Banatian paors, especially the South Banatian, from my Panchev ata, which have been following the debate and the tone with which colleagues from the ruling majority defended this law, or attacked this opposite side, concluded, then the amazing thing for me, and now when I look at everything, absolutely realistic, is, which is that the paori we have communicated with the suspicion that even the very delay in the accreditation of the Agrarian Payment Authority has not happened by chance. They doubted that this delay with conscious intent was brought to this level, and in fact, for reasons that future users of the IPARD programme, i.e. funds from the IPARD Fund, would be those farmers who were actually controlled by the ruling majority. That is, a network of farmers who will be absolutely under the control of people who will make decisions when it comes to recommendations to grant funds according to their demands. Or as they called, I have to admit that I haven't heard that code before, IMT had me here, as they say now in Banat. So having such a relationship with the opposition amendments, and I saw from the Committee's report that only the amendments of a fellow ruling majority have been accepted, I absolutely believe that our couples are right. I convinced them that they might be wrong, not wanting the minister to defend me from the minister himself. I even had very solid impressions of communication with us, of debate, of answering the MPs. However, when we received a report from the resolution board and the government's conclusions, they denied me, and now I'm almost sure they're right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10631	Thank you. Minister Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10632	I thank the chairman. Dear People's MPs, I have a few things to point out here, although I have just made comments on the previous amendments, and they are related to these deadlines. This nine-month deadline is maximum and, of course, the items will be resolved in shorter periods of time. We aim, in general, at the proposal of this law, to get into the IPARD procedure as soon as possible and to make all resources available to agricultural producers and processors. What I want to say about selectivity in the way of possible funding, absolutely transparent procedure, absolutely open, IPARD programme adopted, procedures consistent with all EU rules. These commentary things wouldn't overly comment for one simple reason. It's our idea to put as soon as possible into operation and as many users as possible to get absolutely in a transparent way. And if anyone is in any doubt at all in any way in any way, the measure of proposing this law and entering this entire procedure is quite clear and I don't think those claims stand. There's just one more thing about the amendment. We have tried, as hard as possible, to accept as many amendments as possible, and you will see that in the laws that follow today's debate. How correct we were to all, and wherever there was any possibility we went, that is, we accepted parliamentary amendments, and I think we will hear a completely different story from everyone who participates in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10633	Thank you. Well, the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10634	Thank you. I really expected you to comment a little more and enter deeper into the denial of what our couples suspect and think. I'm talking about people who live off the plow, Mr. Minister, not people who live working in these benches that we represent or do your job. So someone who lives off that land, especially the duchess, and I know very well that you know very well how important their land is to them. So, I didn't expect you to go over what they saw so easily, and I expected you to give some much more significant arguments, especially when it comes to the transparency you called for. With one amendment, we proposed that, apart from the publication in the Official Messenger, all information, therefore, competitive and all others, should be published on the Ministry’s website, plus that the authorities of local self-government should be instructed, so that they too could be made public in order to be more transparent so that each individual interested at the level of his local self-government could obtain such information. You also know well that by driving a tractor or any of the agricultural machines, couples do not read the “Official Messenger”, but those valuable hands spin agricultural machines so that we have something to eat. You cannot expect them to read “The Official Messenger ” daily. It was completely objective for our amendment idea to be directed both to municipalities and cities where these couples live so that they could further inform the potential of the users of these funds. Hence, there is another reason for the suspicion to be more justified, i.e. that it will be farmers who are absolutely controlled by the ruling majority so that maximum control of the appropriations can be sent to the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10635	Thank you. The word has a National MP Ivana Stojiljković.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10636	Thank you, Chairman. I just feel the need to give a few arguments. It's the first time he's heard about this IMT theory. It is probably something that was true in your day and “Is there me? ” This is what you can see, because in 2009 you did not provide assistance to these paratroopers today, but you were helping monopolies, so you adopted the Regulation on the regression of mineral fertilisers, and the aim was to make it easier for farmers to successfully end this year's or sowings. What the government did at the time was precisely that the pair, which today so earnestly advocated, forced them to take from certain partners mineral fertilisers and everything else that bound them by this regulation. What I'm also sorry about is that there's been a lot of promises. The parishioners were not helped today when there really are concrete reasons and concrete ways to put agriculture in the service of our own country, and above all to move and to help our farmers to live off their work. I'm sorry it's such a bad comment. I'm sure farmers can see, maybe not all of them, but I believe that their patience and patience will show us trust and that they will see that our intentions were really good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10637	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10638	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as someone who has lived in Vojvodina for 58 years, as someone who is permanently disturbed... Just to get these athletes out. So, I didn't understand that the IMT party was talking, who ran the agriculture in Vojvodina until the other day... At the time, and you remember waving crutches here when we were changing the Agricultural Land Act that was supposed to be in favor of the steam. The Minister certainly knows that. Over 100,000 acres was usurped. So, the loss at the annual level, which the duchy couples suffered, by the abuse of the Agricultural Land Act, which was supposed to apply the Regional Secretariat of Agriculture, which was led there by a party, who forgot to enter more than 100,000 hectares of agricultural land into the programme. By doing so, Vojvodina and the state of Serbia lost over 20m euros annually. My question - what was this IMT when someone deleted over 100,000 hectares of agricultural land? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10639	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10640	I answer, of course, to an esteemed colleague, and I can from the time of the group we have. I have to answer these lies, and there's the minister. I hope he tells the truth, too. At the time of the DS, which was accused earlier, the speaker accused us, the subsidies for agriculture were 14,000 dinars. It wasn't enough, but it was 14,000 dinars. The SNS reduced these subsidies to 4,000 dinars. In doing so, farmers received 2,000 dinars immediately, and for 2,000 dinars, they were about to give blood from the vein. Compared to that time, and now that the SNS has humiliated farmers, it really isn't in place, and we can talk about 1,200 professionals you from the DS fired, and DS hired 1,200 young, educated people at the Ministry of Agriculture to help farmers across Serbia. For two reasons, you took away their funds, took away their ability to advance and to educate, which was the job of these 1,200 young experts.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10641	The word has a National MP Ivana Stojiljković.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10642	What I said is not a lie, because there really are promises that were false. I'll read it to the citizens, so they know. So, on July 11th 2009, "Dnevnik" issued a notice on the Regulation on the regression of mineral fertilisers. Of course, subsidies existed, but the paori were forced to buy agricultural products in very strange tenders, which contributed to the creation of monopoly. Then, in 2012, we have a promise that was called mutilation, but not irrigation when Dusan Petrovic said it was planned to be about 200,000 hectares of agricultural land of 1.1 million hectares, how much we plan to irrigate in total. Of course, the state didn't see anything of it. There was also a strategy to stall Sasa Dragina, the then minister, who said that since October 2008, a new strategy for the development of agriculture to which the DS has repeatedly called, etc. Again, to mention those 5.5m euros that were given into software, i.e. broken software that did not work and went to the Ministry of Agriculture. I think this is enough to say where the money was going and whether it was going well into the hands of the steam. I think citizens, especially farmers, can judge who has good intentions, and who's just falsely covering it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10643	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10644	Thank you. I just want to say two things. I wish all MPs of the ruling majority understood how well the Regional Ministry of Agriculture worked, both at the time of the administration of the present colleague Goran Jesic and at the time of Branislav Bogorovski, and I know that he highly appreciates the current minister. I wish his colleagues in the ruling majority understood that equally well, because they would not look back like this, under quotes of false and manipulative data. As for the promise, I also asked a question in principle about the incentive for plant production, and some of my colleagues discussed it. The first and last promise to the warlords, the pre-election promise of the SNS, was that incentives in plant production from the unfortunate 4,000 dinars would quickly increase to the bar of what the previous one cost almost 100 euros, i.e. 12,000 dinars, in such a way that the party octopus tried to suck up and calm the agricultural associations in its ranks in the wake of election campaigns, to amortise the satisfaction of the pair with this promise. To date, nothing has happened, i.e. this government regulation, which reduces resources and incentives for plant production, is still in force.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10645	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10646	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as successful as the Secretariat was, it is evident that it has successfully lost almost 40% of the area of agricultural land in state property in the territory of Vojvodina. These are indisputable evidence, which the minister will certainly present in the follow-up of the discussion. How much IMT was more than 100,000 ha you can calculate because the value of the annual lease was over 25m euros on the found land they lost. Well, calculate the times since 2007 when the Agricultural Land Act came into force, so that state land can be rented, so calculate how much IMT was in Vojvodina, so see where the officials live, how many apartments they bought, so ask them for apartments in Vienna and then you will know very well how large the IMT was and how successful the province's secretaries were. Two, it was a plant production of 14,000 dinars, but the remaining debts of 15.2 billion, which this government paid off. So, you broadcast the rights, you don't pay, then there's a change, and then we have to pay both current incentives and pay 15.2 billion, one part by budget rebalance, and 10.2 by public debt recognition. That's what colleagues who understand agriculture certainly know. Also, I must say that within the same period as they ruled, there was the following, supporting exclusively plant production supported by their large pairs of supporters of their regimes, those young activists of 1,200, 1,300 who served as party activists a little bit before the elections, etc., but the fact is that we started importing 600,000 pigs, i.e. pig and live pigs of 600,000 each year, that we almost stopped exporting beef, and that we financed the subsidies of cereals that we exported to buy from others that same meat. The government made a turnaround, did not reduce the volume of funds, but shifted it a little to investment and to livestock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10647	The word is Snow White Bogosavljevic Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10648	I'll use the MP's time. It has been said that subsidies have been reduced in previous years, but I would remind the MPs that there has been a change in the cost of subsidies, i.e. incentives in agriculture and rural development. In 2014, we spent 20 billion dinars on 100 euros per ha, and in 2015 about 20 billion. To make it clearer for citizens and MPs, I'll say it's 60% of the total agricultural budget. With a serious analysis of the effects of the measures applied for the implementation of the agrarian policy, we have concluded that much of the agrarian budget is being drained, i.e. to go into consumption. We realized that it was necessary for more funds to be rerouted and that it was going into investment. Why? Because let's say those who have 100 ha per 100 euros get, that's 10,000 euros. We ignore the fact that in Serbia, the largest number, 77% of agricultural holdings are owned by 2 or 3 ha, the largest number is small agricultural holdings. They receive 2 ha 200 euros on the basis of this measure. What can they do with that subsidy? Of course nothing. To redistribute funds, to encourage funds to be used for investment, to purchase equipment, to purchase tractors, machinery, etc. We have concluded that it is much better to reroute funds to this end. As one previous MP said, it is true, we have paid off all the demands of farmers and based on these 100 euros per hectare, and later 100 euros for 20 ha. So, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has found additional resources, but the fact remains that in recent years we have lost a lot of resources, and we could have much more planted orchards, much more equipment, much more investment in processing. So, when one of our farmers plants, say, 1 ha of orchards, he gets from that investment to refund by 40%, in marginal areas 55-60%. Is it better to have hectares or let them spend 200 or 300 euros on the road, figuratively from the bank to the house? So the aim of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia was, and I see, under the proposal of this law, that it continues to be the same, which is to invest in irrigation, to invest in equipment, to invest in orchards, in livestock production. So these are the changes that were made not because someone wanted to or wanted to, but are the changes that preceded the serious analysis of the effects of the funds used in the previous period and the serious goals for the next period, for the years ahead. We will all agree that we need new hectares of planted fruit, investments, to preserve small farmers, because they are, as I said in the previous day when the debate was in principle, they were also the other symbol of the tradition of Serbian agriculture. So, on this small family agricultural land, we will build a strategy in the future, i.e. to implement the already adopted Strategy for Agriculture and Rural Development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10649	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10650	I didn't want to answer, but I just had to, because there's a couple from Panchev here, and we're talking about subsidies. By the way, I'm from where I'm from, and my father-in-law is, among other things, a pair from Panchev. (Zoran Krasic: What does this have to do with the amendment? It has to do with the amendment because we're talking about subsidies, right? By the way, in your day, your panchevi parori couldn't get to the ground, not to get to some plot. The subsidies you've given have been used by tycoons, and that's the essence of the whole story, what you've been doing. You gave subsidies from which the state had no use, and neither did that peasant. (Marinika Tepic: We are not talking about subsidies. ) The subsidies you were giving were mainly tycoons. How? By being able to rent as many countries as you want and reports reportedly plant and you give them subsidies. And then they don't plant it, but they sublet it and make it double, and the farmer gets nothing. That's how you did it. Since you say there are some party couples here, I would really ask you to explain to us what your couples are, which are other people's couples, since you obviously had your partners' associations, since we were able to see exactly how the District Government was giving certain associations money so that they could redistribute themselves. The essence of the subsidy, since I see here that we have politicians who would like us to have a Soviet Union with full exports, which is something that is impossible, the essence is not that someone lives off a subsidy, but that they fertilize from that subsidy, or something to earn, and that the state benefits. By giving you subsidies, we've completely ruined the steam in such a way. The point is that we today have larger yields and larger exports and much better agriculture. Therefore, the policy of this government is such that we want to grant a subsidy, but that a peasant can earn, and that the state benefits, unlike your subsidies, where only tycoons have benefited exclusively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10651	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10652	Thank you. Indeed, with the full respect of the Vojvodina farmer, I do not understand the need to talk only about what the Regional Secretariat was doing, speaking of whether it was enough or not. Anyway, it's a lot more than we've been getting farmers from central Serbia for all these years. The agrarian budget, dear friends, is not only filled with the territory of Vojvodina, but with all of Serbia. Years ago, you forget about these small farmers from central Serbia who have over two hectares of farm homeland. They were, unfortunately, not directed at them. Now I'm listening here to a former minister who says we're going to base politics on small agricultural households. I say yes, that's the way it should be done, but why didn't you do it? Because there is no strategy, because there is no vision and because so far it has not been a practice. I expect Mr. Nedimovic to recognize it, because it will be a real strategy for the development of agriculture, when we include all those involved in agriculture. In central Serbia, dear friends, farmers have tractors over 30 years old. Rarely anyone has the opportunity to buy a sexe that's five, six or ten years old. They don't have the means to start production, they don't have the means to survive, because they can't get to that level or those measures are inapplicable to them. They are inapplicable because the measure of direct administration per hectare cannot meet their needs. They need funds to invest in new production, new technologies, new equipment and thus survive and thus help the overall economic development of the Republic of Serbia. So, please, we're talking this way, not looking for the guilty now. Well, they're all guilty. Here, don't look at the last five years, let's watch the last 15 years since 2000. Nothing's been better, but it's not in the last five years. You're now saying someone else was guilty before 2012. It's all right. It was his fault. But let's see what you've done. Well, I guess you got citizens' trust because you're better and you need to change what others did wrong. And what did you do? They cut the budget. We cannot develop agriculture with a budget of 2.5% or 3% of the Republic of Serbia's budget. The budget must be at least 5%. It's only this year that we've reached the 4% limit. Minimum 5, 6, 7%, and when that happens, then we can talk about both the incentives and the development of agriculture and programmes and the measures, and make a range of all and finally exploit these potentials that we have as a agricultural country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10653	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10654	The esteemed chairman, honourable fellow MPs, respected viewers who follow this debate, I think that from the debate that we have discussed under this amendment, we have been able to conclude one thing, that the same disastrous attitude towards agriculture and the village was also at the time of DOS rule when it was headed by DS, and during DOS when it was headed by SNS. So they're the same principles. The key principle of farming remained the same. So, the elimination of customs duties on imports of foreign goods that floods our market and kills the competition of the domestic producer, the reduction of subsidies, insufficient care for the village and agriculture, and, in particular, the destruction of everything domestically such as agricultural industrial combinations, the agricultural machinery industry, cooperatives, the production of healthy organic food, the fight against genetically modified food, seeds and all that is supposed to be the key points of some serious agricultural policy. So the question here is really just who was worse, whether agricultural policy at the time of DS or agricultural policy at the time of the SNS? But you advancers really had to keep your mouth shut because you cut subsidies to farmers from 12 to 4,000 dinars. Your agricultural budget is constantly below 5%, which is mandatory incentives for agriculture. What else do you have to do to harm Serbian agriculture to stop and realize you're not doing well? Here you have received a very specific amendment, to reduce at least administrative deadlines when paying something or giving it to farmers. Even there, you can't be more up-to-date and be faster, with less bureaucracy, with less paperwork, that even a small amount of money that farmers get easier and faster. I don't see what's at stake in this amendment, fellow opposition colleagues who suggest and want to speed up at least this bureaucratic procedure, to come up with this little amount of funding that's being allocated in the agriculture budget at all. So, there is no concept of domestic economic interest in agriculture here, because if there were a first plan, our cooperatives, our agricultural industrial combinations, our agricultural machinery industry...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10655	I ask all MPs to speak of the amendment. We really need to get back to the amendment to the Sixth Parliamentary Group of the League of the Social Democrats of Vojvodina, who's really been looking for some stuff for decades. I can see that Ambassador Aleksic didn't understand that this was about the regional authorities responsible for agricultural affairs, and you understood even less. Please, we've finished the principle debate and we need to talk about the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10656	You're wasting my time, the chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10657	You spend because you don't want to talk about the amendment, I don't spend.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10658	I was the only one talking about the amendment from the previous five speakers.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10659	So you decided not to talk, too? He can't.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10660	You only warned me about the amendment, and you didn't warn those who didn't even talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10661	I especially want to educate you, because I see a political future with you...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10662	Not over my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10663	... So you can talk about the amendment at least once.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10664	Well, don't over my time, 'cause I'm running all the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10665	Anyway, I can stop you if you're not talking about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10666	You can, but before that, you have five previous speakers to warn you too. Where exactly did you find me?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10667	I wouldn't argue, Article 27 tells me I have to run a session.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10668	But it's just me you're practicing your session.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10669	No, I'm not practicing, I'm running a session.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10670	Can I go on?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10671	About the amendment, yes, and the other one.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10672	Okay. So it's more than clear that when the opposition gets the word, they have no right to speak, and when the government gets the word, they can talk about whatever they want. These double standards are really more extremely hypocritical.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10673	I'd like to ask you to talk about the amendment, and if you don't know you're talking about the amendment, we'll have other sessions, and you'll have a general political situation in Europe. It can't be like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10674	I have said very precisely that I support the opposition's amendment to shorten bureaucratic and administrative procedures, that the little funds you give to farmers you give faster and easier. So, the SNS not only reduced subsidies to farmers, but the little money you give, you give it to people after a year or a year and a half. Is that the subject of the amendment? It's not? Okay, great. So, you explain to the citizens of Serbia why you reduced subsidies from 12 to 4,000 dinars and why, and why, the little subsidy you're giving, you're giving it to such bureaucratic and administrative procedures that people can't get it in a year, a year and a half. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10675	The word is Snow White Bogosavljevic Boskovic. SNEŽANA BOGOSAVLJEVIĆ BOSKOVIĆ: Dear People's MPs, once again for your sake and for the sake of the public to explain, we have paid off all debts to farmers as Government of the Republic of Serbia since 2014. So, in 2014, budget rebalances five billion were set to pay off incentives for farmers based on previous-term debts. In 2015, thanks to the government and the finance ministry's understanding, additional funds amounting to 10.2 billion dinars were also provided, and thus we paid all debts to farmers. If we wanted to figure out how much that is compared to the total budget, it would be more than 5%, and that's well known by the professor I talked to and when we were counting on how much that is. So we paid off everything. As for the concept that has been applied since 2015 and doubts whether it is good, this concept is the result of an analysis of the effects and has proved to be good, because if it were not good we would not have had such exports, we would not have surplus in 2015, and I said that the surplus in 2015 is over a billion and 260 million euros in agricultural and food products. So we increased the exports of agricultural and food products to all markets and to the Russian Federation markets and to the EU market, not to repeat the data I spoke in the principle debate. And that's why I don't accept the fact that we're working without a concept, that we don't know. In the end, I also mentioned the rural development strategy and that it was prepared by two hundred experts and scientific workers, the most invaluable, so we stick to it. We know who we are in agriculture, the results can't be overnight, it takes time. A positive trend is in all indicators, our accident was last year, which was the world market price of agricultural products according to FAO data by about 20% lower. That's why we had much more production, much bigger exports than it was realistically shown through income, and that's what one MP put as a dilemma what it is – you have more production, and it's less income? Well, because that's how agricultural products last year and food products were cheaper, on average by 20%. Therefore, the situation in agriculture is far from ideal, but things change going positive over the course, everyone who knows or deals with agriculture or are agricultural experts knows that the effects will be seen over a year. What we were saying about the investment was all embedded in the regulation, it was all incorporated into the regulations. Therefore, the funds will be invested, i.e. they will go into new plantings, they will go into irrigation equipment, they will go to processing facilities so that small farmers in central Serbia, in the south to the east, have reason to rejoice, that is to say, to benefit from incentives for agriculture and rural development. Thank you. Thank you. The People's Messenger Miladin Shevarlic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10677	I thank the esteemed president, I use the time of the parliamentary group. Let's get a few things straight. First, in the previous discussion not to name it because of the replica, it is mentioned in the peri-curative meaning of the IMT abbreviations. Is there you or me, etc. I'm asking you for all of those, not just from this IMT Hall, but from tens of thousands of workers who worked in IMT. They do not use this keybinding because it is the past government and this government that destroyed one of the basic segments in front of the agricultural sector of agriculture. And now we want to give subsidies when we have destroyed the Dragon, and the Croats have made the Dragon on Ledina next to Županja a new combine factory and are now exporting to us the combines and others. We destroyed Rakovica, we destroyed IMT, and now we need to give subsidies to factories, machinery in Western Europe to buy machinery from them. I think a different order of things should have been. Furthermore, the situation is more than tragic for the largest number of agricultural holdings. So it's not true, colleague Boskovic, that they were getting money to go, to spend on the way from the bank to the house, because now they don't have money for diesel fuel to process their fields. They don't even have a regress for diesel fuel, let alone go to the bank to spend it. If you consider four thousand dinars per hectare for small family agricultural land two, three, and even that of five hectares of what the average size in Serbia is satisfactory, then you are wrong because the state gives farmers less than they give to the state in the name of excise and VAT for diesel fuel per hectare and 200kg of mineral fertilizer per hectare. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10678	Thank you. What do you say, even after the amendment? He didn't replicate to you, said former government on this one, I can do it all over...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10679	The name was mentioned by the professor.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10680	Good name. Here you go. You got your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10681	It is true that I said that it is two hundred euros for our small farmers because they spend it on the way from the bank to the house, I said that they understand what it means. I didn't say it was really small for them. But compared to what they received in the previous period it is insignificant, because they really had no effect from the previous implementation of the strategy. Why? Because small holdings in previous strategies are not even treated as agricultural holdings. They were a social category and it turned out on the ground as a result. So they don't, they get 200 euros, but that's why these big ones take most of the agrarian budget. I repeat, we've given 20 billion for these direct payments. They get 200, and those with 100 hectares get 10,000 euros. Well, these kids need a lot more to build a new one for now, to get anti-building equipment, anti-building networks. Do you know how many are lost every spring because it was a city? So it's better to give them for irrigation, for anti-urban protection, for digging up wells, for plantings and for everything else. What you're talking about is big factories, industries, machinery, it has nothing to do with the incentives we give as a ministry, which we gave as the Ministry of Agriculture. It is the equipment for small farmers and small and medium-sized farmers.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10682	I didn't give her a line after the amendment either. I can't give it to you because there's really no basis. [[Miladin Chevarlic: Please, replica.]] You answer each other, discuss whatever you want. So you can pick up the amendment as well as the previous pay phone. She told me I had no idea. And you told her she had no idea. Well, yeah, whenever it's you, that's how it is. No guesses with me. Maybe with the other chairman. There's no replica. You want to talk about the amendment or not? Do you want to follow the amendment? (Miladin Ševarlic: Adjudication of the Rules of Procedure. No, no, I'll take two minutes if you have two more minutes. Whether or not you want to discuss the amendment. Please, one thing at a time. I have to have a really slow session. (Miladin Ševarlic: The dignity of the congregation has been violated. You're hurting your dignity by not giving me... . I give you a warning from Ambassador Shevarlic because you do not want to comply with the rules of the Rules of Procedure, you do not allow me to hold a session. I beg you to give me your word? So, wait till I finish one shop to start another. I don't know why only the Devere Group has the need for violence to act. So there's nothing violence can do about it. Sit down, let me run the session, I'll give you my word, it can't do this. (Bosko Obradovic: Why don't you give me your word? Why don't we give a word? We don't give a word. That's because we're the chairman and I want to run a session. My question to Ambassador Chevarlic was and I repeat, does he want to discuss the amendment? You want to discuss this by default? (Bosko Obradovic: Wants to take down the Rules of Procedure? ) Don't. I'd like an MP from Bosko Obradovic not toss. I asked you if you wanted to discuss the amendment? Yes, yes, well, I'll give you my word. Do you want a breach of the Rules of Procedure before that? Miladin Ševarlic: Yes. All right, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10683	I thank the esteemed president and thank you for giving me the heads-up, although I think it's completely unfounded, I leave that to your conscience. I've never offended anyone, nor will I ever offend anyone in the Assembly, especially if I said something ugly to anyone. Thank you. As regards the infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Article 107. It has been said that the dignity of the congregation has been hurt, and it has been said that I have no idea. So, please, I said nice that now farmers get to plant production four thousand dinars per hectare.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10684	Now you've given yourself a line, I haven't given it to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10685	I'm explaining what the injury is.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10686	No, you're replicating and saying this, and I said this. No, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. So, article 107 can't be hurt. As for saying the warning, here, I'll do it, I'll withdraw the warning, you're partly right, I said it too quickly. Thank you. (Miladin Chevarlic: Can I continue? ) No, the word is Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10687	Thank you, President. I need to ask you to define on what basis some predecessors have been given, some of you have warned that they are not talking about the amendment, some have talked about a completely different law that is not at all at this point in the debate, very few have talked about the amendment of the LSV, or our amendment that is now being discussed. And I am particularly interested, under the names of my colleague, Snježana Boskovic Bogosavljevic, I saw her write the SPS, and I realized that she should speak as a national MP for the SPS group. She didn't talk about my amendment, and she kept saying in the first person of the plural, what we did, so what we did. I absolutely know that her MP group didn't do what she said she did, and I'm asking her to take care of the signature and the character in which it's spoken and how people are signed to act like it. And please speak of this amendment. Otherwise, I'll only try one sentence to respond to a series of instructions sent to us here, so that you can use countless sentences and digits and data to try to magic our duchess, and all the other pairs. They are absolutely certain in their belief that this law serves only to further expand and confirm and ultimately control the network of both agricultural associations and individual agricultural producers, or registered tomorrow as legal persons, who are able to do so, so that the ruling majority will have absolute control over the funds to be withdrawn from the IPARD Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10688	Okay. As far as your question is concerned, Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic exclusively spoke as authorized in her group and took away her time. So, to anyone who spoke, one might have been a replica, I've taken everyone's time, I can't help but choose to have MPs speak exclusively of amendments. It's partly lost in this sumption. So, Snow White Bogosavljevic Boskovic, I won't give you my word, you can't replicate. The question was addressed to me. Do you, Ambassador Chevarlich, want to continue the discussion? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10689	Thank you, President. I am informing the Assembly that because you pulled a warning from me, which you unfounded by me, I will give part of the funds to the Kovačević family from the Kings whose wife has 10 children. Thank you. (President: Thank you, yes, you have been withdrawn a reminder. ) A warning has been withdrawn, but regardless, I'm going to be the one belonging to the funds, that you don't think I've been looking for a withdrawal here for financial reasons. Therefore, the amendment to Article 6(5), Minister of Agriculture, explaining the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Agriculture and Rural Development, fully understands why they are being implemented for the installation of elements for the use of IPARD funds, and the creation of a basis for accreditation, although it could have been done in 2014, as far as I heard from the presentation of the previous minister at the earlier session, because already there was a legal basis, i.e. the basis to adopt these amendments. There's something else I want to say. The agriculture minister said he would ask for a commission to come in April to carry out the evaluation and accreditation of the Agrarian Payments Authority, to expect the commission to give its consent in the fall. If the provisions of this article are applied, as suggested by the Ministry, we will not be able to withdraw any of those funds in 2017, because if it takes nine months, nine months, and so it says in the article, from nine months will be resolved, and not up to nine months, we will not solve any demands. I'm still interested, as the agriculture minister said in the last session that he already has 21 projects ready to use those funds. How is it possible that there are ready projects and no competition is called and conditions are not known for it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10690	Thank you. The 6th Amendment in the same text was submitted by Zoran Zivkovic and Radoslav Milojičić and together by the MPs Goran Ješić, Gordana Comić, Goran Ćirić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Maja Vidinović, Natasa Vukković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic and Veroljub Stevanović. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10691	Thank you. Our amendment refers to the deadlines of the applicant for the funds and deadlines to which the application is submitted shall be an obligation to respond. The minister has already mentioned several times that our intention to make these deadlines shorter is essentially included in the law because the laws are maximum deadlines, and no one prevents anyone from submitting a request in two days and that, I'm Caricating a little, respond within seven days. It's an exact explanation, except it won't happen. So our amendments go from experience, from learned mistakes. I think it would be a good idea if there was no will to accept the amendment on the short deadlines, I understand that, but to prescribe a clear procedure in the sublegal acts that the Ministry is bound to do. And, as you say to us, they can do it in two months, as they can in nine months, and then commit them by a sublegal act to be so. Why isn't the explanation standing? It says – the time is required for the applicant to prepare the law, to have time and everything else. If I'm applying, because I need money that's on favourable terms through the IPARD line, why should I waste my time? Why am I bringing this up? It looks like a depression, and it's essentially an illustration of this amendment. Our Assembly passed a law on local self-government to report what their property was, when we passed the Law on Public Property. So, if there's any simpler stuff, it doesn't matter if you're in Mitrovica, in Novi Sad, in Kursumlia and all that, but to just report it – this is mine. And nothing happened for a year, then a year and a half, then two, so we extended the deadlines. So, even when you have a direct interest in reporting your property under the law that the congregation has passed, it doesn't happen. I would love to, and I have no doubt of no intention, I do not believe in the ethics of intent, but I have no doubt that you have a plan, that the applicants are also required and those who will professionally organise by April the Ministry to respond to the demands for money, to motivate, that time is an unrenewable resource, only time and living people, everything else can be compensated. That's why we submitted the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10692	The word has a People's MP, Zoran Zivkovic, as a promoter, and then a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10693	Thank you. I'll use it for five minutes. The amendment is completely meaningful and I don't think there's any doubt about good intentions, as I have no doubt of the good intentions of the motionor for these three laws. Minister, I'm complimenting you right now, so you'd better hear it. So I'm praising you, so you'd better hear it. I have the conclusion that good intentions are in all three draft laws that are on the agenda today. It's not a set, it's a set of laws. Seth's something else. I think it's in the same atmosphere and the amendment that my colleagues from the DS and I filed, which is to force the procedure to cut deadlines. I think it's clear to everyone that three months can't possibly be a small deadline. In three months you can do anything, sometimes something good. It would be good to have such great periods, it's time to use them for good things. If you give the applicant a request and an administration, a three-month period, and in that time I can't, I was a proposer, either that applicant's request, was an administration to come to a solution, then we have a big problem. This is the 21st century, there's no need for anyone to dig for knowledge, through archives, by libraries, a few weeks, as it may have been 50 years ago, there's information available on click, and if a procedure is well done, if the forms are put in, if the decision-making procedure is well done on request, I think the deadline can be 15 days. That's why it's good, not just in this area, in all areas, where the administration needs to do something to make these deadlines as short as possible. The secondary effect of this is that citizens who are asking for something from the state authorities are also more concentrated, more focused on what is their request. It's not something, it's a bad practice to submit a request, and then wait for months, then supplement, so the amendments, so the law changes, the power changes, we have the elections for a year, so the question is whether the government will be in the next composition, not only in the presence of ministers, but also in the organisation of the government is the same. Therefore, it is time to turn to shorter deadlines and therefore our proposal is the one that is, and it would be very good for the minister to take this step and with the good intention with which he has given us these three drafts of the law, to accept both responsibility, and of course, to the administration in his ministry with the greatest help of all who think well of this country, to do so. Of course, it's going to be the first six months and maybe a little bit of trouble, something's going to be a little longer than three months, but you'll see, believe me, in the experience I have from some state affairs, after nine months, a year, you're already getting a new atmosphere where people in the administration are afraid to be late, justified, and that those who are proposing, who are demanding, who address themselves more seriously when they have shorter deadlines. Generally, neither the amendment of this article, according to the amendment that we have passed on, will improve the general state of affairs. Of course, the amendment is good, but the general state of agriculture is bad, and this is witnessed by today's debate. We re-entered all possible traps of demagogy, so it was the story of economic patriotism again, so it was the story again that our tractors...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10694	I totally agree. Let's get to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10695	The best in the world.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10696	Never mind, bad, good, totally evil.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10697	What are you afraid of?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10698	No, I'm not scared, I don't care. Let's try the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10699	I'm talking about the amendment right now. I just asked you what the amendment was on the agenda because from what was said, I didn't know what it was about.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10700	I agree.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10701	This is about an amendment to Article 8.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10702	To Article 6.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10703	Six, excuse me. So, by adopting that amendment, I'm talking about the atmosphere. If you have short deadlines, then the president, there will be no discussion in parliament that will deal with various demagogues, whose tractors are better, what once was, whether it was better under Tito. The best was in the '90s, so it was best in 2003, so it was best in 2007, such bids don't bring us anything. Subsidies from European sources, with subsidies from domestic sources, must be processed more efficiently. And in the draft budget law, I've made five billion out of another source, from throwing away money for the failed companies, with my amendment, I've proposed that it go for subsidies for agriculture. I'm sorry it wasn't accepted. Finally, we have one big dilemma, and I also think that this amendment that shortens the deadline for these answers can also affect the solution to this dilemma, and that is the question of whether agriculture should be based on small possessions or large possessions. That's not even a rhetorical question, that's a pointless question. Nowhere, he doesn't win at all. In the economy, and agriculture is part of the economy of a country, it has one complex place, both for demographics and social policy, but never in business can anyone who is small win. So, in addition to all this, one way to stimulate the state, and even to say and make small producers enter, once called cooperative, may now be called cooperatives, or cooperatives again, anyway, where they will have their expert associates who will, on their behalf and for their account, write these proposals and chase the administration to respond as soon as possible. It is for the benefit of the administration, because the sooner some production starts, the sooner it will come to the price of the tax on the product, when it comes to the final consumer, and of course the money is returned to Serbia's budget. Therefore, Minister, it is a good opportunity to show that you have a good answer to the good amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10704	Thank you. Minister Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10705	The Honorable Chairman, honourable Members of the People. I absolutely understand your desire to speed up the procedures concerning IPARD funds and to me it's quite clear. What I can tell you at this point is that it's our intensity to speed you up and through the IPARD program, through calls that will be. The terms will be clearly defined. At the lower level of acts, special procedures will be defined. There are a lot of different procedures here for many different types of subsidies. It is not the same thing that can be achieved for subsidies through a tractor, where we can very easily, within three, four days, approve any means or other kind of storage facilities where all permits are required. It takes not only construction, but later a useful permit, so that on-site controls can be carried out at all. It's the intensity to control the entire procedure as much as possible. What I want to say, too, is that the united procedure is the product, the result of this government. A united procedure in the area of the issue of construction permits and a unified procedure through changes to the Water Act, we are told that as quickly as possible and that the burden of collecting documentation is on public institutions, on any authority, that local self-government, tax administration or state of Serbia, that as soon as possible, one can meet whoever wants to build something. One more thing I want to say, this part of the amendment relating to the inclusion of persons who can control the scene, and agricultural professions, it was contained in the amendment, they are already covered by technical and technological sciences in accordance with sublegal acts that are regulated in the scientific field. So, the agricultural profession is incorporated and will be the persons who are agricultural professions, and we will also involve the persons of the veterinary profession in this whole procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10706	Thank you. To Article 6. The amendment was submitted by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm asking the minister if he wants to plead, do you accept the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10707	We'll take it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10708	Thank you. The amendment has been accepted. Marjan Risticevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10709	As chairman of the Committee, on behalf of the Committee, I would like to thank the Government for accepting this amendment. It's the IPARD control, that those who completed high education in the veterinary professions can participate, and that was the request that appeared here at the Assembly. Since this ruling majority has an understanding of everything that appears in progress, there was a way we could do it and we did it on the Committee this morning. I thank the government for accepting this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10710	Thank you. Honored Members of the People, pursuant to Articles 27 and 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working after 18 hours today for the purpose of discussing the proposed laws and adopting them. The amendment was submitted to Article 6 by Ambassador Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10711	Thank you. I join all MPs who have submitted an amendment to Article 6 on these deadlines, because I believe that the six-month deadline, not even six months, for the refund of funds, for the already submitted complete documentation on the funds spent from the IPARD programme is too long and I think it should be cut to 60 days, as usual the deadlines for the refund of those funds. Why would farmers, since very few of them will participate, pay interest on loans to banks for six months, when they have no need to do so? The Ministry, or the Agency for Agricultural Payments, receives complete documentation with accounts paid through the current account, i.e. with accounts paid through legitimate financial flows. I also want to say that we do not adhere to the Strategy, because to adhere to the Strategy, we would also have a national programme for agriculture and national rural development programmes, and we still do not have them, although the Strategy was adopted in 2014. I would like to say the following fact that it is not accurate that the external trade in agricultural and food products is due to the change in agricultural policy measures, and most of all because we have practically 400,000 on average or more dead than the living or evicted from Serbia. That's 400,000 consumers per three meals, 1,200,000 meals a day, times 30 days, times 12 months, that comes out more than a billion and $200 million foreign trade surplus. So if we had as many residents as we were ten years ago, then they'd eat that surplus and we wouldn't have a surplus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10712	The word has the People's MP Goran Jesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10713	These amendments aim to, we spoke on the board, to try to cut deadlines, or to create a clear, transparent deadline for the duration of the competition, which should not be, as was the case with previous ministers, above all, with Minister Glamočić, lasted two working days or three working days. It must be longer deadlines so that you can prepare as someone who wants to apply to these means, and that automatically reduces corruption that was obvious. We can talk about it, and I hope we can talk about it today, which is in the Ministry of Agriculture. I know that the deadlines themselves do not depend solely on us, not on you here, not on us in parliament, depending on the contracts we make with the EU. Namely, they define those deadlines, but we have to make as long a deadline for the competition as possible, and as short as possible for the realization. From the moment we go out to monitor and determine that the conditions are met that this deadline will not be longer than 60 days for the refund. As far as the Strategy, distinguished professors, I think and perhaps this could be a proposal, the Strategy has been adopted, we have all different attitudes, those who deal with agriculture in that strategy, I think it would be good, and because of the other MPs and the importance of the topic, that this Strategy passes the verification here in the Assembly. We've heard statements, a bunch of MPs saying there's no strategy, that we don't stick to strategy, etc. The strategy is very fresh and I think it would be good if at some point it appeared here in the debate, to inform MPs about this strategy. It even has a very precise action plan, which is very not specific to the strategy, which is according to the EU's proposition, where budget fees, positions are foreseen, and I ask that at some point when these sets of laws pass, we go out here and talk about this Strategy, that all MPs meet about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10714	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10715	The problem of late payments to farmers and in general the subsidy is one serious and major problem. Otherwise, the delay of images and the opportunity of our agricultural policy. For example, when you should have prepared rockets and anti-urban shooters since April 15th, and you don't have them until May 15th and then you get killed by the city, who's responsible? Mr. Minister, the deadlines, in 15 years of DOS rule, from 5 October 2000 to today, have changed 15 agriculture ministers. You may be changed with new elections in April 2017, and after eight or nine months of your term of office, and the deadline is even longer than for you to do anything about these issues in European funds. The question arises – what kind of agricultural policy is it if you replace agriculture ministers for a year? What is this continuity of politics? We have already spoken, if you are already five years behind on the EU funds, if you have promised five years 175m euros, so there are none, and now, as finally there will be, and then the payment solutions, the project approval solutions, should last nine months, so your mandate will pass, new elections will come, the new agriculture minister will come, and you will not bring a single solution. That's the problem why these amendments are trying to speed you up, to speed you up by making false five years of this 175m-euro finally seeing someone in Serbia, because no one has seen them for five years. That myth of yours about the EU, that fairy tale, that lie has simply been revealed. There is no EU. No IPARD funds. There are no EU funds. It's an empty story where elections have been held years ago, and no one has seen a single euro. Now you promise it may be next year, but it may be nine months from now until you make a decision on the approval of the project or the payment. It says that farmers in Serbia have no security whatsoever, that farmers in Serbia can't expect any plan, order and programme on which they can rely to invest, because you don't give them anything in return anywhere, you ask them to invest, and you will eventually re-fund them one day, until your deadline is up to the end of all the procedures. Here is the question – do you lie to citizens of Serbia all the time with empty stories about European funds? If you are not lying to them and if they are finally in sight, as is the view that we will finally enter the EU in 10, 15, 20 years, then can you speed up at least a solution to the cost or a solution to the approval of the project? You can't speed it up. Why? Because you'll be removed from the minister's post in eight months, since it's been the rhythm of the Minister of Agriculture's shift over the last 15 years. So, what do you guys have as an idea? What do you have as an idea for the SNS that have changed so far, how many agriculture ministers? Are you just another one in a row that will be there for a few months and leave?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10716	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10717	This is about deadlines that are not only the subject of a contract between European funds and Serbia, but the issue of independence and decision-making of the Serbian government. Here it is logical to expect government representatives to give us a clear answer whether the government can even shorten these deadlines relating to the payment, or to the submission of the programme? He's been on the programme for nine months, and he's been paid off for six months, and that's the point. If the government can, then it would be logical to accept the shorter time limit, the shorter the time limit for those who invested, not small funds... Don't forget this programme means investing their own funds under a programme controlled by the EU, or by the EU Commission, which is not small funds. Their technology is being bought. Their instructions are paid. They are not small funds, and even if they wait six months, and we know how it works when it comes to six months, one or two months is added, so we only expect the representatives of the SRS, or the minister, to make it clear -- yes, but the government alone can affect the reduction of this deadline? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10718	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10719	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, listening to Tito's youngest councilman, who is now a member of a church Orthodox organization, not getting into it, I couldn't conclude... He is against European integration, such is the amendment and submitted, professor, but it is for European money. Either you are, or you're not. I'm not clear on this group of MPs. If I am against European integration, then I am also against the European money that is being obtained because of European integration. A professor should decide for himself. As for deadline cuts, we must leave the parties plenty of time to meet everything the IPARD, as a financial instrument and programme, requires. It takes time and time, and it's done for the party to be able to fill out everything, and even when they don't, we'll leave it for eight days to complete that documentation. There are also those in "the country of peasants in the hilly Balkans" who achieved their rights in such a hurry, immediately, so in November, they leased land, in 2007, and the vineyard was planted in the spring of 2007, even since November. Well, in March he must have registered agricultural land, and he registers it in July, registers it in Indjia, on the parcels KO Krajkovac-Merošina. There's been a lot of them. There were fast solutions from the STAR project and how fast solutions, to write a cooperative strategy, a few pages, get money, it will never be adopted, but you get 58,000 euros, I guess because you were Tito's youngest committeeman. As for IMT, it was you, Dragin and Petrovic who kicked me out of IMT when I brought ITO and when I wanted the Chinese together with IMT to make together IMT models and ITO tractor models, however, I was kicked out of there like a suitcase. I see they'd gladly, happily, Professor, give Tito's youngest councilman money and pump it up. It was 58 plus four and a half, a total of 62,500 euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10720	Miladin Ševarlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10721	Replica. I don't know if I'm Tito's youngest councilman, but I was the youngest council member of the Belgrade City Assembly in...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10722	He wasn't talking to you. He didn't tell you you were the youngest. (Miladin Ševarlić: Yes, and me and the professor who is... Just a minute. Please. Ambassador Rističević, please state if you thought the youngest committeeman was the applicant for the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10723	Ma'am, there are a lot of senior professors here. I was thinking of Atlagic, but he recognized himself quite another.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10724	I'll give you a replica after all. I get it. You didn't exactly say Professor Atlagic threw you out like a suitcase. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10725	I thank the president. So, I don't know if I'm Tito's youngest councilman, I doubt it, but I was the youngest council member of the Educational and Cultural Council of the Belgrade City Assembly in the period from 1968 to 1972, and I sat together in a bench with the late actor Ljuba Tadic. Secondly, I don't know who the strategy bothers, but I don't adopt the strategy. We made the strategy thanks to the participation of foreign consultants and our people from Serbia. We took part in the competition legitimately, legally, and the competition was positively assessed by those who evaluated from abroad as foreign experts. Thirdly, I'm not clear at all about the half-life which is false, more than ever, that the Association of Agrarian Economists of Serbia has not mentioned it, but in previous sessions it has, co-financed Dveri. Never has the Association of Agricultural Economists co-financed anyone, except for the 10,000 dinars that we gave to the Association for the Fight to Find Innocent Victims in Kosovo and Metohija, whose panorams stand here after their destruction, so that they can get new panorama. If it's a sin, I accept those 10,000 dinars to make up for it in my pocket. But it wasn't during that period. Also, the Association of Agricultural Economists held five international meetings together with the Institute of Economics of Agriculture, with the agricultural colleges, three agro-economic centres. Of these, three meetings were held in the Serbian Parliament, two meetings in the Vojvodina Assembly and one meeting in the Subotic City Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10726	Thank you. The word is Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10727	Replica. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's a lot of money for three together. Secondly, as far as the strategy is concerned, the minister knows, that's what the commission does, you can't catch them by the head or by the tail. However, the strategy was not adopted and was paid, leading to doubts whether it was of sufficient quality. I didn't mention the name of any organization here. I said there's a church-illegal organization and there's the youngest Tito's boardman who's recognized himself -- recognized, but, no name, I haven't used any of that guy's phonebooks. I can't even understand this being against the imports of genetically modified organisms, that someone be against the SAA, that someone be against European integration, but they want money from European integration, they want money from the Star project, then it's not a question. As for genetically modified organisms, we have a transparency, it would be okay to move away, given that of the 220 thousand tonnes of soybean soybeans, from genetically modified soybeans, imported by the government of Vojislav Kostunica and Mrs Ivana Dulic Markovic, it is the party of Vojislav Kostunica, through which someone entered this parliament. The SAA was launched in 2005, during the government of Vojislav Kostunica, initialled in 2007, and that is the government's obligation, during the same government, and that is the obligation of the state that we must respect. Now I don't know who he is anymore, who he is against what, once again, they're after each other, they don't care about the party of the former regime, but apparently Mr. Dragin and Mr. Petrovic and how they financially assisted the professor who recognized himself in Tito's youngest councilman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10728	Let's close the circle of replicas. I don't understand anything anymore. Parliamentarians Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 6th amendment. Here, Miroslav Aleksic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10729	Thank you. I've already talked about the need to cut administrative deadlines and procedures, but I'll repeat again that since we haven't proven ourselves capable enough to implement and actually go into the realisation of the IPARD program, it's necessary to correct these mistakes now. We have been warned by the European Union by the very amount of funding we have received for this programme – 175m euros is one of the smallest amounts that all the countries that were members have received, actually candidates for EU membership, and we have received 174, even less than Croatia, and we should have received at least twice as much from it, about 400m euros. Why? Because Europe has also suspected that we are capable of withdrawing those funds with our institutions and our staff, and so far the experience they have with us. And that's actually how it happens. Let's not talk about IPARD being just a serious asset exercise when you join the EU. For example, Hungary received, as candidate status, 53m euros annually. When they became members, the amount was ten times higher – 553m euros. So it's necessary to commit very seriously to this and correct the mistakes we've had. Why should it be shorter than nine months? And for pre-financing. You don't treat the pre-financing category anywhere here in these amendments to the Agricultural and Rural Development Act. I note and address Serbia's farmers – in order for someone to use the IPARD programme's funds, he must finance his project. If he wants to build a modern farm, raise a cloak, lift an orchard, he has to invest it out of his pocket, and then apply for someone to grant him funds. It's also up-to-date, especially since farmers, the vast majority of them, are unable to finance it now. They're going to have to look for new ways and sources to finance, or you're going to do it in some other way, like some other countries did, but I didn't see in the law that you're treating the pre-financing category anywhere, which could be a very big problem. So the point is, we're not allowed to lose any of the only dinars in the IPARD. If, as you announced in April, expect us to get accreditation, do not miss 2017, where we will lose at least 15m euros, as far as we are going for that year, because as far as I know, the funds are withdrawn under rule N+3, so from the year zero and in the third year they reach the funds. If the deadlines are this long, there is a serious danger that we will lose one part of the funds. So please, our amendment is in that sense that the deadline from nine is reduced to four months, and of course, there are always exceptions when something can be done sooner or later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10730	Thank you. The word has Minister Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10731	The President-in-Office, honourable MPs, I will repeat once again because of everyone in the hall, because of the public that this deadline is generic and that it covers all kinds of measures that will be implemented under the IPARD procedure. So we have the simpler ones, we have the more complex ones. Of course we will define shorter deadlines for our acts for the kind of measure through the IPARD that will go. The first thing we intend to do is get the machinery. The deadlines will be very short and very soon will be approved. That's what you need to know. The second thing that is often said is that the deadline for spending the first tranche is the end of 2017. No, the end of 2018 is the first deadline. A month ago, we were all together in Brussels, we were in special directorates dealing with this problem and we were given assurances that "M plus 3" refers to the period until the end of 2018. We will do our best, not asking for any alibis, we will in 2017 already put the first measures at our disposal and spend the first money from IPARD, the first question we have. What I want to say is that these amendments to the laws, these amendments that we adopt and discuss, we have the idea of getting into this as soon as possible, to apply the shortest deadlines possible for each of these measures. It's a very important story about control on the spot, because it depends on how fast we can get the payout solutions. Payment solutions are not the same as the approval solutions. Someone's approved, so when it's established on the spot that everything is realised, then there's the payoff. That's the essence of the whole story, and you need to insist on control on the scene.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10732	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Excuse me, Gordana Komic, did you want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10733	Thank you. Please, Minister, on what basis did we get a delay? Is that the plan to go along with April in the management review or is it just oral, since we don't see it anywhere?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10734	I'll give you a replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10735	Thank you. When we were in the general directorates that regulate this matter, we were told at meetings and confirmed through written documentation that we had the right until the end of 2018 not to be kicked out of that number of 175 million. That in the context of everything that's been said we've already lost some money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10736	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10737	Thank you. This is the basic Law on Agriculture and Rural Development, and what is the problem? What your colleague says - you won't be in the EU, and you want IPARD funds. I belong to the SRS and our policy is that we will not enter the EU, not because we will not, but because it is not good, and it is not good because all citizens have seen that this road is too long and that we are too tired of this path to the EU and that we have not received anything in the meantime. We're just afraid that agriculture will be ruined just as much as we've ruined all our businesses, industry and everything else from 2000 to today. So there was privatisation, and you all know it, and the MPs from the ruling coalition know where we came from. I know that you have an assignment of course to defend what you're defending, and we don't have the task of resisting you because we want to be smart, but because we want to tell you that this is really the wrong way and the wrong way. But you'll see one day, that's a question, then we'll all be in the same situation, in the same problem, so we'll wonder who'll make it up to us all this time and all these lost years? Because, note that since the 1990s in the country of Serbia, some kind of transition has been going on, down, some turbulence, etc. Twenty-six years we've lived in suspense. Well, we don't have time anymore. Imagine, for 26 years, you gave birth to a child, so up to 26 years of college, he starts working, and he doesn't actually start working. What can we expect more? So we've had enough. How can I tell you, don't get it wrong, we don't think you as a minister have a bad intention, you have good intentions and your intention is to be good, but believe me, you're on the wrong path. But if it is already the way it is, then consider all this, which is good of the MPs not only the SRS, but there are a lot of people here who speak from other parliamentary groups of smart things. If you can't influence the very flow of the EU, then at least affect what is next to us, which is when these deadlines are at stake. The European Commission cannot only talk about deadlines, whether it is something five years old. Why didn't you box, perhaps harshly, why didn't you negotiate it for a longer term? For example, if it is said that one who uses funds has to deal exclusively with this activity for five years, is it a little unserious and too short for agriculture? Yes, because if we plant one so far, we are only three years old, or four years old, we can ask for something, or harvest some fruit. Isn't five years too little? What does that mean? There's a risk that our man will take a certain... Please, Minister, these are, believe me, good instructions for you because they come from the field and come from experience. So I'm telling you, if we are well-intentioned, be well-intentioned toward the citizens. I'm saying there can be abuse, you've limited it to five years, and you should extend that deadline to ten, because there's a possibility of abuse that one of our men will not get, believe me. You know very well, you put there that always one in-house body decides, the director of the Agrarian Payments Board and the minister generally decides. They can't decide either. The commission has to decide. Do you understand? Now, if it's something five years, it's very short. So someone can use it because it has ties in the ministry, they'll take two million euros and after five years he'll sell it. Who? A stranger. That's where we're afraid there'll be abuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10738	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10739	Mr. Minister, Madam President, counterpart Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted this amendment on behalf of the SRS for very specific reasons she explained in short lines, and I will refer myself to that and ask you some specific questions. Given that these projects, Mr. Minister, you are recently on the post, have the deadlines for monitoring subsidies, namely these five-year credit lines, do you, as a new minister, consider that Serbia, based on all these exposures, and even this most concrete amendment, needs a long-term strategy for agrarian policy that will route the way to the future? When I say that, I also want to point out to colleagues who are following, and above all because of the public of Serbia, that rural development is one thing, you'll probably agree with me, a wider component. It's much more complex than farmland, so far, livestock, fruit growing, etc. When we say rural development, we should, the Serbian radicals when they are able to implement that policy will certainly do so, to bring a strategic plan for rural development, because it is not enough to have just the means and so to come and say – well, now this and ad hoc things are going to happen. Rural development also involves the development of rural tourism and landscape development, right? Because the whole of Serbia is not rurally even. What is in the area and on the slopes of the Old Mountain or there in the west of Serbia is the situation, where the deagrarization was carried out, unfortunately, is being started by more Broz communists after the war, the depopulations, where there are no more, and look at only the pyrotic villages. Here, I'll mention a village of Vrmja, which you've heard about because there's been a lot of talk about it, there's no houses, there's no people, there's no population. Then rural development must be strategically planned so that within a period of ten years, the start of a job and the return of these young people, and there are really positive examples, a young couple of architects from Belgrade, that's what we could watch, engineers born in that neighborhood or their grandfathers, come back to start something new. In addition, Mr. Minister, in these rural areas, this is 2016, where innovation and trends in agriculture and the world are monitored, there are new cultures that can bring in a larger and significant income in ten years and that someone decides to stay there, buy a property and start developing a job that will be full of their contribution and contribution to the entire family community only after ten years. That is why this amendment by a colleague is intended to strategically plan everything that can bring income, especially for young people and for those who want to return or stay in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10740	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10741	The Honorable Chairman, I'll be very brief. One reason why this amendment cannot be accepted is because we have a set of measures in the IPARD programme, not just one type of investment. We've got investments in equipment procurement, we've got facilities, we've got plantations. A generic deadline has been set. It is very difficult to set individual deadlines within the framework of the law, so that the generic deadline is set in accordance with the IPARD programme. We cannot ignore the situation that these funds are half the European Union's resources. Those are the rules, and they insist on it. But that's not one of the basic reasons. The main reason is because there is equipment that has a much shorter period of depreciation than in the case of some other types of objects. On the other hand, I want to answer the question I've been asked, I'm just going to use a few seconds, the national rural development programme is about to end, it will meet the government of the Republic of Serbia in the next two to three months. The national programme for agriculture is also in line with the agricultural development strategy.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10742	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nenad Christmas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10743	Thank you. My amendment refers to Article 6. The Law on Amendments and Supplements, i.e. to Article 8e added to the law. I'd say a little bit about that member, so I welcome the decision to control the implementation of the program, that's fine. You've prescribed conditions there for both the controller and the person in charge of the controls, i.e. companies to take over and that's all right. My amendment referred to as one addition to all this, that the controller's reports were published on the website of the competent ministry monthly, the tenth month of the month for the previous month, of course, if there were controls. This amendment has been rejected, on the grounds that it is not accepted for the reason that the controller's report is part of the administrative file containing official and personality data, whose protection is governed by special rules governing the protection of personal data. I must now point out here that in this same Article 8e, in the last position, it says that "the minister is closer to prescribing the way and procedure of conducting controls on the spot, as well as the form and content of the official legislation of controllers". So, you've now rejected the amendment by referring to the file of the administrative document, which you haven't even prescribed what it should look like. So also the way in which control is carried out, as is not prescribed, the official ID of the controllers. I'd like to make you a suggestion now. First, I don't think there's any reason there's any personal data in that report, and here's why I'm going to explain it to you. So in this process we have two subjects, it's a controller and a controlled face. That controlled person signed a contract to get funds under the IPARD programme. The contract is probably listed in some contract register, conducted under some number, etc. So when the controller goes into control, he goes under that contract number and submits a report under it, so he doesn't certainly enter the home number of the person, if it's a natural person, if it's a farm owner. As you know, users don't just have to be physical faces, i.e. individual, but can also be legal, can be companies, entrepreneurs etc., and they are otherwise not subject to the Personal Data Protection Act, because their data are home numbers, PIB etc., all public. Now, in order for you to, say, exercise control, let's assume it's an individual agricultural landlady, where the controller goes into control, first the controller, let's say, and he needs to be protected. He has an official ID that probably has some number, so his data doesn't have to be revealed in that report. So he's a controller with a name and a last name and his official number that you're going to assign him. Also, in that report, he can write the number of the contract, or whatever you're running, or since it's a registered agricultural land, there's probably some number under which it's run, too, it could be part of that report. So there's no reason for any data to be protected by a person. I believe that if you arrange this act to describe control, you can put all these reports on the site. Second, why would it be good for those reports to be on the site? I guess we should have an insight into how to run the program. The control reports are very important. I really welcomed this when I saw it, I said – this is a great thing and it's good to take care of it. But if it stays only in the ministry, if it doesn't have the opportunity to see all the interested parties, after all, and all the citizens of Serbia, it doesn't make much sense. So I'm giving you a suggestion that you handle it that way, and then you publish those reports nicely, and that we, Serbian citizens, and also we MPs, can follow it well on the Ministry's website. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10744	Thank you. The word has Minister Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10745	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear MPs, of course, that all decisions on the approval of IPARD funds will be presented in a transparent manner to the public and will even be made public on the Internet presentation of the Agency for Agricultural Payments. Also approved payment solutions will be available. Control is one complex procedure that requires, you said yourself, two parties. You have one tool at your disposal, based on the availability of information requirements, after prior approval of the project, you can enter the whole procedure. One more thing I want to say is that all payments that go on this basis you will have a chance, because there is a unique portal related to all payments from the budget, which is on Parliament's website, all payments that will go to the Agrarian Payments Authority are visible, so I think that in these three types of public reporting will absolutely have all the insights.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10746	The word has a People's Messenger, Nenad Christmas.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10747	Thank you for the replica. Thank you for explaining this to us, but what you're talking about, that's payments, that's one thing. It's okay and I welcome it to be published and it's great. I'm talking about the control report, because these control reports are talking about how the program is being implemented, whether it's a person, legally or physically, who got the funds, whether it works... We've got a lot of examples so far from practice, I don't know, if you're looking at privatisation or anything else, where often contracts signed by natural or legal persons with the state don't run, and we don't know what problems have arisen in implementing those contracts. If maybe the public knew that, then you'd have a different relationship to it. This way we keep thinking that something is hiding and that someone who doesn't implement the program properly, maybe abuses some money, practically protects himself. What I'm saying applies exclusively to that report, so I'm asking you to consider accepting the amendment and putting those reports on, let's see for every user of the program whether it meets the requirements of the program as prescribed. I think it's okay for the citizens of Serbia and for our partners in Europe who give money to know that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10748	Thank you. Sasa Radulovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10749	Thank you. By amendment. Transparency is the key to everything we're looking for, in all laws we're looking for the same thing. This control thing is also very important for transparency. It has to do with all economic areas, so it has to do with agriculture. For example, there are great abuses, let's say, in controls in any area, where a small set of economic operators, in this case it would be land, control all the time, and there are a lot of them that never control themselves. The reason why we're looking for full transparency is so that we can clearly see who's being controlled, how it's being controlled and what's the result of that control. So when some reports arrive, controls go in both the regular procedure and the reports, that the public can know, especially the interested owners, who are the ones who control themselves. For example, we know a lot of situations where the country is used without any basis, the state country, we don't know whether the controls are conducted or not, because there's no transparency. That's why we're looking for these things, that's why we're looking for transparency in every area, so not only on the matter you've been talking about, which, of course, we agree, is total transparency, who's got all the money, how much money he's got, when that money's paid off, that's really good stuff. Every step of government towards the introduction of transparency we support, but we see that it covers all other areas and, of course, the area of control. And I'll repeat again, I think it's very important, this Serbian citizens know, the controls are being carried out selectively, and since the controls are being carried out selectively, we think the best way to force them to exercise control is because they are doing it indiscriminately because everything is transparent, or when it's being controlled to publish it, the results are being published. Of course, we agree with that, too, it wasn't our intention, that when there are some data that are protected by law, that protects people's privacy, that these data should be left out. But everything else has to be published, because in the end, it's about public money, so not only about European money but also about our money and every spending of our money and every control of the spending of our money must be public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10750	MPs Dejan Sulkic, Milan Lapčević and Gorica Gajic together submitted the 6th amendment. Dejan Šulkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10751	I thank you, President, and I will use five minutes after this amendment. So, Mr. Minister, a lot has been said about these deadlines and you've given an oral explanation, and you've given an explanation that you refused to amend, so that's all I wanted to explain. So this is about the deadlines for making a payment-approval solution and they are defined as you say by the Sectoral Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Commission. However, here we are also talking about deadlines for making a solution and it is cited as one of the reasons that the shortening of these deadlines could perhaps jeopardise, or limit the right to stay, since the longer deadlines allow the parties to provide the necessary documentation in good time. So the time limit for delivering documents will be defined as far as I understand by the competition that will be published and this is not the subject of this law. We're talking about a deadline for a solution. If the deadline for a settlement is defined by the Sectoral Agreement, I don't expect that by law we can change it now. Is that right? So it can't be affected. But if it is a deadline for a solution, or approval of a project, it is not defined by the Agreement, and perhaps something could be done. You, there in a member, prescribe by proposing amendments and supplementing this law that the minister, within 15 days of the appeal, is required to decide on the appeal, so a commission is formed to discuss the appeal. So, a commission that will consider appeal for these more complex projects, as you say, will only have 15 days to decide all this. So, the one who prepares the project, analyzes the decision-making process, approves the project has nine months. So nine and six 15 months, that's almost two vegetative periods in plant production. I also asked the director to publish the person's requests for approval of the draft solution required for the approval of the project and an appeal solution at the internet presentation. You have stated in an explanation that rejects this amendment, therefore, that it is personal data that could not be published. So, this request of mine, the amendment is interpreted as language, not to say literally. So personal data, name and last name, number of requirements, for which type of investment is approved - for the purchase of machinery, therefore, it is not disputed to publish in the form of a register, therefore, per row. I don't think it's an obstacle to it being done. As far as the deadlines are concerned, there are no more Mr. Minister of Criminal Measures to exceed these deadlines. In the Law on Amendments and Supplements to this Law, something is changing and tightening in criminal provisions, especially when it comes to unintended spending of funds, and that is fine, but we do not have criminal measures to overstep deadlines in the procedure. We have an administration that needs to serve the applicant, and through the applicant, the potential beneficiary of these funds of the state wants to shift funds to investment in agriculture, to invest its resources to create some new value. The administration should also be subject to these criminal measures. When you're talking about deadlines, you're talking, but by the system to say compensatory verbal methods. So we're going to solve these simpler requirements within a few days, and this nine-month deadline he's scheduled for so-called. The most complex deadlines. Well, why are no deadlines scheduled, nor can you do it later, and say, for these simplest things, if it comes to the purchase of machinery, make it known somewhere, we'll figure it out within eight days or 38 days, and let this nine-month period, if you already solve it and define it to stay for later. So, as far as intent and motivation are concerned, as your intention is to exploit these funds, and to make use of us as the applicant of the amendment is the intention and purpose of making full use of the funds. As for the interested. There's a lot of people who are interested. What we're talking about today is what we're telling you and some of the potential users of these funds. In restrictive conditions, when from year to year, for the reasons that are listed here, we are now not opening a debate on the subject, hence restrictive policy, the subsidisation of budgetary allocations, the state budget allocations are increasingly restrictive, to say that it is almost flat zero compared to just a few years ago in conditions where the risks of agricultural production are high. I'm also thinking about the costs, the increase in cost of production, so the instructions, the risks of anti-urban defense. The risks of anti-urban defence are not high because God has become angry with the Serbs but because he has not invested in the anti-building defense for years. Not to mention not maintaining water streams both first and second, of course, which threaten agricultural production. And, of course, the risks that the market for agricultural products brings to our producers. We can't boast, the truth for, the high degree of competitiveness, but neither is our agricultural production and may be protected in a way and to the extent that it should seem safe. When we rely on some comparative legislation, when we rely on a practice parallel to the subsidy policy, we heard for a little while from the former minister that it should not develop and deepen the policy of subsidies to the core of investments. Of course, but there is no need for investment to be at the expense of subsidies because subsidies are needed at this point. Why? Because the largest number of agricultural producers specifically talk about small and medium-sized producers are unable to consume even the basic forms of investment on their holdings without talking about the rules under which IPARD funds are allocated. So, you always put matter first and you put procedures and we ignore that it can't be implemented or natural wealth or the material resources can be used on their own, so, without people, they can't be used. There's something we need to do about it. When we talk about transparency or perhaps better use the public of work, farmers do not have the possibility that perhaps in the way some organised structures do it, I mean doctors, urbanists, architects, they are not in a position to participate in a public debate in changing the adoption or amendments of laws governing the area of agricultural production. The only way they can participate but as observers in the public debate is to watch the congregation broadcast.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10752	Thank you. Parliamentarians Dejan Sulkic, Milan Lapčević and Gorica Gajic together submitted the 8th amendment. The word is Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10753	Dear Minister, we have also tried to intervene with this amendment on the deadlines to be implemented in this law. There were more words during this part of the afternoon session that we've been talking about the IPARD program for years. For years, we've been talking about how we should use the resources available to encourage our agriculture, to help our producers invest in their production, in their ambushes, in our processing capacities, but that we couldn't possibly get to those funds and that we're always late, we have some excuses why we couldn't do it. For these reasons, we wanted to speed up the process. So, it is commendable that we have these amendments to the law on the agenda today, which will finally regulate how IPARD funds will be used, but we want it to be precisely because of previous failures, as much as possible to speed up and limit deadlines, maximum deadlines to which sublegal acts will be adopted and to take certain other measures that are a condition for exploiting these funds. In response, in an explanation of why it is not accepted, it is said that it is not accepted because some other authorities are responsible for the adoption of sublegal acts and that they have their own deadlines and that in this way it cannot be affected by those deadlines. I think the Assembly is the highest legislative authority and that what it says in the law must be implemented. Therefore, it is perfectly reasonable that we limit those who deal with sublegal acts to do things on shorter terms.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10754	Do you want to use the remaining five minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10755	Yeah, I'm using five minutes. I'd like to make a few points and commend some of your efforts and promises. It is commendable that we have more resources in the Republic of Serbia's budget for the coming year than in the previous year. It is also commendable that your announcement will provide for specific measures for undeveloped areas and small agricultural holdings, especially in southern and eastern Serbia, which are practically pre-extinctional and is particularly good at introducing these two organisational units in the new law that will deal with production research and accounting data, FADN and STIPS. What's the problem with agricultural production in Serbia is that our agricultural producers don't have predictability, they don't know what's going to happen tomorrow and they don't have the courage to invest huge money when they don't know what the markets will be like for a particular culture in a year, two, five or more. It is known that in order to get a product in the fruit industry, it is necessary to invest large funds, wait five, six years for it to start giving birth, and then you have no idea if this product will find its market, at which cost and whether the state will stand in terms of purchases and guaranteed prices. So what the ministry needs to deal with is to stand behind agricultural producers and plan for long-term production. Why, for example, the state. does not take advantage of the possibility of duty-free exports of agricultural products to Russia, to make long-term contracts with the Russian Federation's competent ministry on the export of certain agricultural products, whether it is a plum, whether it is a coupon, raspberries, tomatoes, whatever, and especially fruit products valued on the Russian market, e.g. to make long-term export contracts of 100,000 tonnes, million tonnes, ten million tonnes of plums, apples or other products? Instead, the state has repeatedly been through the Prime Minister, through the ministers of the rules, or has asked to make arrangements on the duty-free exports of "Fiita". I think it was much more meaningful that we made arrangements that we could export a million tonnes or ten million tons of apples over the next 20 years, so that, on that basis, the ministry and plans to develop the production of that culture and help multi-annual plantings and subsidize this type of production, because we will certainly contribute more to the development of agricultural production and help farmers. On the other hand, what the ministry also needs to deal with is the organisation of buying and guaranteeing the prices of certain agricultural products. In some contexts, you can't always predict everything, but through these FADN and STIPS systems, you can make recommendations to farmers what type of production to deal with, monitor and analyse the needs of a particular product type and therefore the ministry helps to develop, for example. the production of raspberries or blackberries, because it will be a disabled product in the next five or ten years, or, I don't know, plums, apples, any other agricultural product. In this way you will help people to have predictability of their production, and the state will benefit, because with the export of these agricultural products they will achieve a greater trade surplus, since it is known that the only branch that records the surplus in exchange with the world is agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10756	My colleague Bogosavljević Boskovic, you do not have the right to reply. You can only speak by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10757	I called after my colleague Chevarlich. I wanted to replicate because he misread my previous statement, and now. Ministers from the previous period were mentioned, and I am one of those ministers. The government of the previous period has been mentioned, so I have an obligation both to the government from the previous period and as minister and to the public to tell you that what you heard is not to some extent true.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10758	Mr. Dusan Petrovic, on this basis, had the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10759	Yeah, but this one's about this period right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10760	So, everybody can? You can pick up the amendment, it's not a problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10761	Well, here's the amendment. First, to say that I am completely misread when it comes to small agricultural producers. They were precisely the reason why we changed our subsidy policy, so they could get funding from the agrarian budget, because in the previous years, funds from the agrarian budget received the largest, 100 euros per ha, 100 ha per 100 euros, 10,000 euros, and our young people get nothing. We're for them. The most money went to the big ones, because of them. As for the error, we are being prescribed some mistake and some slowness in the work to withdraw funds from European funds. Please, no one has withdrawn a single dinar since 2004 until 2014. In 2015, this program that we're talking about here was prepared. So, what's the delay? Where have those who have been since 2004 been to respond that no single dinar has arrived or, as it is said here, no euro in the Serbian economy. Secondly, it is said - duty-free exports to Russia. Well, we have duty-free exports to Russia, but the ministry doesn't make purchase contracts. The Ministry's working out procedures and it's done it the best possible way. And in the previous two years, statistics are talking about this, is significantly increased exports. Of course we're not happy that only 50% or 60% are increased when it comes to apples. We want more, but we have to have more products. That's why we want to give farmers in central Serbia, in the west, to raise new orchards and modern orchards, to have bigger yields, to have more goods to export. This is the famous "three K-quantity, quality and continuity" policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10762	Thank you. (Milan Lapčević: Replica. You have no right to a replica, not in any part. (Milan Lapcevic: She misread what I was saying. Ma, she was an excellent interpreter of everything you said. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10763	It's obviously best to have a status ex. Whenever you're an ex, you're right to say it. But not to deal with exes, but to...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10764	counterpart Mircic, a colleague of Snezana Boskovic, used the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10765	Mr. Velizar Arsic, I apologize, Velibor Arsic, I understand what this is about. But what the SRS wants to stress in all of this, in a series of these measures being taken to implement this IPARD programme, the government has to take care first of all of the control of the possibility of abuse, because we have here an item where complete documentation is taken away by the competent inspector. It may not be bad at further reviewing the conduct of the inspection, or control, to say – with the agreement of the minister or ministry. You know, it's a little awkward, we're aware that we're living in a climate where something that's unpredictable and the law can't define, but some sublegal acts like rules could regulate it. What it implies in any case, in addition to these measures of a single system of reviewing agricultural and parcel markets, includes speedy adoption of certain laws, such as the Law on Pastures. You must make sure that if you run one policy in agriculture that, absolutely, that's why the government is responsible. We now have an almost incredible situation, amazing in terms of implementation and this programme, and agriculture policy programmes. The government is behind all these projects, and even behind this project, which is from pre-accession funds, and on the other hand, pastures have local self-government. Local self-governments play a decisive role in the development of livestock. The government must pass pasture laws as soon as possible so that it can fully implement the policy behind these amendments to the law. It is a pity that the Law on Agricultural Land cannot be changed, that the clause relating to the management of agricultural land at the level of local self-government is changed, but we need to think about it, not only whether this programme will be implemented, but all the programmes announced by the government. We must bear in mind that both large, not only abuses, but acquisitions, after all, are personal benefits when it comes to the distribution or allocation of pastures and agricultural land. We've been informed almost every day that new malfeasances are always revealed when it comes to agricultural land allocations. On the other hand, the government has been prevented from making any selection, if agricultural land is at stake, sowings. The government must also pay attention, when it informs peasants and interested, what will be the ransom price. It can no longer be tolerated when a minimum ransom price is announced when the harvest arrives. When the harvest comes, then it is before the final act that everyone who deals with agriculture, and it refers to the plant production. It must be discussed when preparing the set, either by orientation or indicatively, what is the guaranteed ransom price, and in the meantime, if there is a change, if the farmer has a higher price and can sell for more money, he will do so, but the state must guarantee in some way that it is the minimum cost-covering that farmers have. Among other things, this is an opportunity to appeal once again in time to prepare it, so that these programs can be implemented so that ministers and you are not exes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10766	I thank my colleague Milorad Pajtic, Mircic, I'm sorry. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Goran Cabradi, Marinika Tepic, Nada Lazic, Olena Papuga. The People's Messenger, Nada Lazic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10767	The Honorable Chairman, Mr Minister, this Article 8, which is amended by Article 33, refers to the system of accounting for agricultural land, and on the basis of this member, is the Ministry established by this so-called so-called "Secretary" The FADN system and it, the member said, consist of the National Monitoring Board of the FADN System, the national body for the organisation and implementation of this system, the regional coordination bodies, the Office for the collection of accounting FADN data, the Republic Organisation responsible for the affairs of statistics and agricultural holdings, i.e. FADN holdings. Our amendment, or amendment by LSV, concerns members of this system. In fact, we have submitted to the amendment that there is also a provincial coordination body, because we believe that in this accounting system we can only have a simple one round continent on the territory of Vojvodina. You did not accept the amendment on the grounds that there are advisory and professional services on the territory of the province's authorities and that this is enough and that the participation of the province is ensured. We think that a formal circuit coordination body should exist because we don't see any interference.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10768	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10769	We from the SRS are against any kind of pitching, especially when it comes to implementing this unique agricultural policy and we will vote against these amendments that include, above all, that in a single programme, as far as we understand, the achievement of a agricultural strategy is talking about something that is completely controversial, and perhaps it would have some other weight. We don't want to get into those waters. As for the recent illusion of my last name, I know that Bojan Pajtic and what a dear person and dear name he is to you. He helped you steal the mandates of the SRS. He financed you and supported you in that, so it's good that you mention him at least in that context.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10770	Thank you, Minister Milorad Mircic. I am neither Velizar nor Velibor, but Veroljub. You want to go back to the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10771	I have no intention, Chairman, of having a daughter with you, as Beqkovic would say. There's a serious discussion going on here. Don't be such a short fuse when something comes back to you that you first started. You know, this isn't supposed to be privatized anyway. We've known each other for many years. At some point, whether you deliberately or accidentally changed my name, so at least I can, it's in gratitude, it's double to pay you back, so I've changed your name twice, but that doesn't mean that we're going to waste any more time, spend some of our personal debates. No, you're still the chairman. You have to have width, you have to look at it in a completely different way, and we MPs when we make a little joke, don't be at the end of your heart for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10772	Thank you, colleague Mircic. Since we've given each other names, we're godfathers now. The word has been given by the People's Messenger, Nada Lazic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10773	Yes, I just want to point out that this isn't about any territorial parceling, but it's simply something that's the fact that the circuit body that runs, as you pass on jurisdiction, issues of agriculture on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. There is and it works and we don't see any, I repeat, formal reasons that there is no such thing as a circuit coordination body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10774	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Milojic. Does anyone want a word? The 9th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs Goran Jesic, Gordana Comić, Goran Ćirić, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Maja Vidinović, Natasa Vukković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic and Veroljub Stevanović. The word has the People's MP Goran Jesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10775	This is about collecting data that are important for uniting from the management and monitoring of agricultural policy. This is where we put in the obligation to deliver those data. Of course, that data is mostly lame, unfortunately. This works by sending a questionnaire to the municipality, the municipality forwards it to legal agricultural entities. Most often it does not send to the largest agricultural holdings and these are some as operational data. They're about internal structures, they're about some economic parameters, and this is going to go away in time. If we set up the dynamics of the list of farms that are needed for five years and when we set up surveys that 21/3 TJ/MC will be needed on an annual basis for the list and that information to follow the trends in agriculture, then such information will be necessary, since it is mostly incorrect. You're getting a reference in a agricultural combination or a community that suits you. We only intervened that "must" instead of "can" binding, but I think that a member like this will disappear at some point when different ways and lists and gathering of information are established. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10776	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Milojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Dejan Šulkic, Milan Lapčević and Gorica Gajic submitted the 9th amendment. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10777	As in the previous amendment, we intervened here in terms of deadlines, to minimise these procedures. The same was rejected with an insubstantial explanation that the Assembly could not do so. I don't think that argument stands, but here's something about the truth about the IPARD program. Therefore, the IPARD programme has been in place since 2014, and these funds have been available since 2014, and could not have been used before 2004,5.6 or 2007, these funds. So, a completely pointless comparison. On the other hand, help small producers. Yes, something the previous ministry did in that sense, but it did in one radical way, instead of 12 grand per hectare that they were getting, they now get all four thousand dinars. I don't know what kind of help that is when you cut 12 to four. On the other hand, it did not correct the historic injustice that is still in effect today, which is our biggest regret about amending this law, which is that milk premiums can only be given to those who hand over three thousand milk, which means that over 200, 300 thousand households in southern, eastern and western Serbia that have one cow and of which live, which is the only, perhaps, source of income, since they are mainly nursing households, cannot have a milk premium of seven dinars. Why are we discriminating these people? Why? That's true. Therefore, not every household delivers up to 1500 liters of milk in the hill-mounted area, i.e. in the plain part of up to three thousand milk, the quarter cannot have a premium. That means his milk...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10778	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10779	This is about amendments and additions to this Law on Agriculture and Rural Development, and Article 10 includes a system for the identification of land parcels. So, the introduction of a land parcel identification system. It's something that citizens need to know, because they have to prepare for something like this. This now is not only important for the Ministry of Economy, this is important for the citizens of Serbia and for all those who want to deal with agriculture. I must point out that we in the SRS keep saying that agriculture is the most profitable business and profitable business in this country. It may be, but it's not. That, to put agriculture first as the most profitable business, business, I'm someone who deals with agriculture now, and if, perhaps, it's not appropriate to say, I'm a lawyer by profession, but I'm a farmer, and I want to do agriculture, and I would educate other people in your place. But I can't educate, the Ministry must educate people that agriculture is the most profitable business in this country, and that's why you need to formulate it and present it to the people. What's the matter? It's about these parcels that need to be identified now, to see how many of us, what parcels we have, etc. Now, we always have a difference between Vojvodina and central Serbia. What have you done with Vojvodina? Zaorali, Preorali, gave to the tycoons, took so that tomorrow by law they could prevent buying purchases from buying them, etc. What will happen to Vojvodina, you know it best. It doesn't spell well, anyway. But what about central Serbia, where we are with small parcels, 20 acres, 30 acres, where the parcels are unfair. The day before yesterday, we talked about this law, so you told me that the use of subsidies doesn't even require you to own it, but you need to be hired. But I haven't been able to answer you, or to tell you the situation on the ground, that we can't even lease a plot of 20 or 50 acres, because it doesn't go to anyone, you understand. It's a small plot. Now, what we wanted, i.e. To make this recording system as fast as possible, means as effective as possible to implement it. You put it as a recording system, but you didn't limit it by deadline. That SRS sees the possibility of abuse and preparation for these parcels, tomorrow, one day, to be increased, but the moment it's of interest to some foreigners or, we get into a situation where we're going to lose these parcels, and that we're just going to be servants to these foreign investors, which you're going to bring and give them 11 billion so they can do something. I'm telling you, we know it, we know it, we know it, we know it, and we dig it, and we make it, and we set it up, but we need the Ministry to give us the instructions for it, and the Ministry has to make a peasant and the ability to produce, but most importantly, the possibility of a placement. So I ask you, as the Ministry of Agriculture, that's exactly what you're taking care of, because the most important thing is that the peasant produces where he's going to sell. When you do that, then we'll start farming in the right sense of that word, as one import branch of the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10780	The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10781	The Honorable Chairman, honourable MPs, this land parcel identification system is one of the most important tools that, hopefully, the adoption of this law will be made available to the Ministry of Agriculture. It's a very important story about the identification of land parcels, both because of the commission, which is necessary and because of these things that you've been talking about. What I have to say is, we've already applied for the implementation of this LP system. Of course, if the MPs adopt this amendment to the law, then the full function of the idea will be for us to enter the entire parcel identification system as soon as possible, primarily because of the agricultural producers so that we can also put the land that we cannot identify at the moment into function. Do you think they'd put this in law unless we had any intention of getting the system fixed as soon as possible? Let me just remind you, today it was said that only 120,000 hectares of state land in 2016 have been put into operation, more than 25m euros has been made by the state. It is, in fact, our measure, our desire to establish the system as soon as possible. What's the problem, and there's a lot of colleagues working at the bar, and they've been working, it's fear of communication. Fear, for it must be entered into every village and explained to everyone what it is. Naturally, tradition, it's a desire to resist new things, but when you enter the Sword, some ataras, catastrian municipalities, you know what these plots look like? These are a pair of aria plots, which look like some hieroglyphics, it's impossible to enter to establish quality production, without a massage, and this is one of the tools that enables us to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10782	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Milojic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10783	The proposed changes are also proposed for reasons why RGZ in most cases does not possess quality and updated data. I am one of the few presidents of the municipality in central Serbia, who received funds because we had a full documentation of 250 million dinars for the sale of three cadastrian plots, i.e. three meat communities. The municipality received funding, but only for three local communities. We applied for other funding, but we didn't get it, and it's really a serious problem when you talk to people in local communities. The first question is out of fear – why would I need someone to take away my plot? I think that awareness should be raised, about the combination, because it's a really good thing, and if it doesn't come to the accumulation of agricultural land, especially in central Serbia, where it's on a much lower level than it is in Vojvodina. I think we're gonna have a problem, especially with those things. I hope it's gonna be one of the things that's gonna be solved. It is indeed bad news that the only municipality in central Serbia that had the ready-made documentation was the municipality I managed. Generally, the Vojvodina municipalities are better prepared, have better projects, and I think that consciousness should be triggered and changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10784	Thank you. National MPs Goran Jesic, Gordana Komic, Goran Ćirić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Maja Vidinović, Natasa Vukković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Vesna Marijanović, Dusan Petrovic and Veroljub Stevanović submitted to the 10th amendment. The word has the People's MP Goran Jesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10785	This is about Article 10. A whole paragraph should be added in the new attitude 34a. You predict that we will provide satellite footage from the RGZ, and you and I know that this is an impossible mission, as well as the bases that are necessary without compensation, which should be granted to us for the record and everything else. We left that part around the RGZ, as far as they deliver, will be delivered, but I know that you had meetings with "Biosens", and I think we should stand by to use satellite footage from "Eurosat", which is a European satellite for use in agriculture, the program is now called "Copernikus", here we listed it directly from them or from institutions, as I suppose "Biosens" will be the institute in a day that will be able to provide the bases we need. That data is much better and much better. In the end, they come twice a year, and from there we'll be able to go back to that previous amendment, to drag the seed structure with satellite images, where you'll be very close, we've done, these projects, in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, you won't need those data from those references that are very often incorrect. In particular, it will show, quality data, in industrial plants, in sunflowers, sugar tails, soybeans, where you have exact data from cooperatives and processors that have the exact exact data as agreed. With this, I think this amendment should be accepted, because these are the necessary data that have been made available to us, which have been paid for, and through certain programmes can be made available by the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10786	The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10787	Dear Chairman, I think it's very important to stress that the time we live in is definitely the 21st century. This may seem a little funny to me, but we're talking about tools available to us in the management of agriculture and agricultural land. The Republic Geodetic Institute is one of the organs, in fact the only authority that has the authority to manage this information. The fact is that there are systems like this in the area of Europe, information systems that can help us a lot, and the fact is that one of our Biosens institutes won the prestigious Horizon 2020 competition, incredible means, for Serbian occasions, achieved an amazing result, based on the management of agricultural land, where agriculture is actually the centre. What's also very important to say is that we as the Ministry will try to integrate through the Republic Geodetic Institute all this information. It's just amazing that every six days you can actually get innovation from the field. These tools exist today, but I think we can get this whole thing through the Republic Geodetic Institute, and it's very important that they be the bearer of all activities, primarily because of responsibility and permanent communication between state authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10788	You can do it by amendment, Mr. Jesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10789	I'm sorry you didn't accept this. This allows you as a ministry to collect and not only limit to the RGZ. You can't, it's not your mandate to deal with an institution that's not within the Ministry of Agriculture. You say you'll get information from them, and you and I know, we all know they don't have that information. You need the data urgently in all areas, just to pay for the parameters, only the central structure to pay for the data, and that's why we're here to provide for the RGZ to stay, but to allow you to be able to set up a budget position tomorrow, if you have to pay a few tens of thousands of euros of that footage, I think there's a key membership that's not paid by the Republic of Serbia, which has to be paid, and that you get that information for free. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10790	Thank you. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Šulkic, Milan Lapčević and Gorica Gajic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Makro Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10791	Thank you. The amendment we have submitted concerns the tightening of the criminal policy in the event of unintended use of the funds under this IPARD programme. So, especially given the fact that there will be a very small number of farmers who will be able to use these funds and above all will be used by large legal entities or large agricultural holdings. I note that the conditions are so rigorous that only a dozen percent of the agricultural owners and legal entities will be able to apply for these funds at all. In Serbia, you have over 75% of small agricultural holdings, out of 631,000 of them around 480,000 are those with up to five hectares of land. So a very small number of them will be able to compete. What is also a threat is that large legal entities, large systems, major owners in Serbia, as they call them tycoons, are likely to compete for all these programmes. They will certainly meet all the requirements, they will have pre-financing funds, pull certain credit lines and withdraw the most significant funds from the IPARD. This speaks of how we must take care of our national measures under the Encouragement Act, which we will talk about a little later, but therefore we ask that this amendment strengthens this criminal policy and that, given the amounts to be withdrawn from the IPARD, that is, the means to be sought will be very high. So here will be projects of several hundred thousand euros, tens of thousands of euros, and it is unacceptable that the fines are as small as you have anticipated with these amendments and additions to the law. I'm done. So, it will not launch the IPARD programme of Serbia, it will only help a little in one part. In order to start agriculture, we need to invest much more in it and implement programmes that will have far greater coverage than IPARD. It won't be better for our farmers from Leskovec or Triestenik now that the IPARD program is launched, but let's just say something's going on in that area. Especially since, again, I note, the program is directed at those who have either several thousand throats of cows or several hundred acres of farmland, which have strawberry fruit on the surfaces of over two hectares etc. So please consider this amendment one more time and tighten the criminal policy measures for those big ones who are thinking about actually being able to abuse these funds.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10792	The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10793	The Honorable Chairman, honourable MPs, I would be the first to impose even more severe penalties, but I must follow the Law of Infractions, a law governing economic offences in terms of the scope of penalties, minimums and maximums. We would accept, in any case, not this amendment, but we ourselves would prescribe much more severe penalties for non-compliance. What is at our disposal is control on site and maximum work on trying any possible abuses. I hope there will be changes in the future and these regulations that will give us more tools at our disposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10794	The word has a National MP Ivana Stojiljković.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10795	Thank you, Chairman. I also agree that criminal policy should be at the highest level, so that there is no abuse of this fund and these funds, but I am sorry that some MPs from the opposition are trying to intimidate our farmers that they will not be able to apply for these funds and that these are reserved funds for some tycoons, for some people who will have huge land properties. So, what is the goal of this government and what will be done, and this should be implemented in parallel over the next period, that is exactly the compassionation and resuscitation of cooperativeism. Why is it our goal to bring it back from the land pooling? It is precisely so that joint farmers can apply with larger agricultural land, with larger properties to apply for such funds. Of course, it's not a great situation at this point, but it's going to be done in parallel and it's going to be withdrawn in parallel and this means that we don't have to withdraw, 175 million, but, of course, it's at our disposal and we're going to make sure that we do it for our farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10796	By amendment, MP Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10797	Thank you, Chairman. Of course I have no intention of scaring anyone here, especially Serbian farmers, because I know what condition they are in today, and I meet with farmers every day and talk to them about Serbia. I've been able to read the IPARD program enough to see what he's prescribing, what the conditions are, and that's something that's reality, and it's something that the minister knows, too, and everyone who wanted to deal with this program more seriously. There will be, of course, problems, which is why we need to talk about a broader coverage through amendments to the National Measures Act, and as far as the IPARD is concerned, it is very clear who will be able to use it. Finally, the IPARD programme is actually for empowering already existing farmers in Serbia, not for expanding some scope and developing new agriculture. What I would like to ask the Minister about the scope of the IPARD programme, since it clearly states that farmers of the AP Kosovo and Metohija are not covered by the IPARD programme – does this mean that they have their IPARD programme or does this mean that they cannot count on the funds from the IPARD programme and is it perhaps some new geographical area of the Republic of Serbia, as we have recently had the opportunity to listen to and related to invitation number 383? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10798	The word has the People's MP Goran Jesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10799	Dear colleague, I don't know where you realize it, and I don't know where we all realized that the government, the Ministry, is attracting funds. The government creates conditions, primarily technical conditions, through documentation and control, and how much money will be withdrawn exclusively depends on agricultural producers. The only thing where the government can influence is that, first of all, the more and the more we all educate together, they can attract those funds. As for the commission, it has to happen immediately. It has to happen immediately, it's a painful process. No one will leave their country, fatherland, no one will leave what is his, but it is a process that must happen, as must happen to consider amending the Law on the Heritage of Agricultural Land, whether we will always have a need for membership or so often, but we haven't done a total piece in the Republic of Serbia for a long time. As for the IPARD, who's gonna get, who won't, I tried to get the story to the cleaners the day before yesterday. Do we and what do we want from agriculture? The IPARD is really going to make a difference. We'll try to balance it with national programs, but it'll make a difference. It'll be better, the kid's gonna have a hard chance of surviving. We have to say whether we are for politics that 25% of people live on agriculture, we have this much scope for agricultural employees, which is not sustainable in a modern economy or we want to make a serious economic activity. Therefore, those who have been seriously engaged in agriculture so far will have the benefits of IPARD, those who do not have to try to adapt as soon as possible, and those who cannot expect it and that they know that we will take care of them, especially as far as they are concerned, through other measures that are not IPARD, but those measures will be a limited age. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10800	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10801	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the sake of full truth, it should be said that aside from the IPARD programme, our farmers can use national resources, they can also use the province's resources, and they can also use local funds, so that each of them, according to their capabilities, will receive certain incentives, which by the local self-government and the province, which by the state of Serbia, will receive from the IPARD project. So, just so our farmers know that this isn't all, that this is what these funds are going to be, that the state is detaching, the province and local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10802	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) Now in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly set a break of one hour. We'll continue work at 15.00 hours. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we move on with our work. The 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 12a be added after Article 12a. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Tomislav Ljubenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10804	The amendment I filed on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10805	Dear Ljubenović, we have passed that amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10806	Well, I answered, but you didn't give me your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10807	No, I'm sure you haven't answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10808	Well, I answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10809	No, you certainly didn't. You weren't even in the electronic system. I'm sorry, it's not. I asked and waited and held up for a few seconds. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10810	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, just for the sake of our farmers and agricultural owners, who, every year from March to April, are renewing the registration of agricultural land, I want to thank the Government for adopting this amendment and thus contributing, of course, along with the promoter, that farmers no longer have to re-register agricultural land every year. It's enough to only report a change within 30 days. This will also reduce the rows in the vaults, disbursing the Ministry of Finance, but will also make significant savings, given that certain fees should be set aside for the collection of documents. So, by adopting this amendment, the government has made it possible for farmers to benefit from multiple benefits, not to waste time, to save financial resources, and to make it easier for farmers to exercise their rights, and with that in connection, on their behalf, because they asked for such an amendment to be submitted, thanks to farmers no longer have to wait in the crowd. We know that the smallest people are in front of the counter, and behind the counter they feel the biggest. This made our farmers feel bigger in front of the counter than they did in the back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10811	Thank you. The word is made by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10812	Thank you. There have been technical mistakes. The amendment I filed on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10813	My colleague Ljubenović, you can't follow that amendment, it's read, you haven't answered. I can't help you. Milorad Mircic: There was a man. He didn't answer. I'm sure he didn't answer. (Tomislav Ljubenovic: Well, there's the minister, and the minister registered. I'm sure he didn't answer. You weren't in the system, you didn't sign up. (Tomislav Ljubenovic: In the system if any failure is made. No, it's not a problem in the system. After we've completed our search of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. Here's a colleague of Mircic's, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10814	I'm advertising Article 103. Mr. Chairman, my colleague Ljubenovic has applied. We are witnesses who sit and watch. He checked into the electronic system and in the end it can't be the reason that the system at one point has failed, it doesn't work or... . Thank you colleagues for your help, but I think it would be perfectly correct for your colleagues to provide an opportunity to explain the amendment. You won't lose something big, you won't lose much. It's a maximum of two minutes to explain your amendment. How many times does it happen that other colleagues don't put a card in, press the system, they think they're reported, they don't pay attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10815	I'm really sorry, colleague Mircic. If I hadn't read the second amendment, I would have already given him my word. Trust me. But MPs are obliged under Article 127 to use their identification cards exclusively, as well as to identify themselves when entering the hall by inserting a card into the MP's unit, i.e. to log out when leaving the hall. The card wasn't in the system. I'm really sorry. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Milija Miletić, Tomislav Ljubenović, Marko Đurišić, Miroslav Željić, Goran Bogdanović, Nenad Constantinović, Zdravko Stanković, Radoslav Milojičić, Goran Ješić, Gordana Comić, Goran Ćirić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozović, Maja Vidinović, Natasa Vuković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Vesna Marijanović, Dusan Petrovic, Veroljub Stevanović, Marijan Rističević, Milan Lapčević, Ivan Kostić, Bosko Obradović, Marija Janjušević, Dragan Vesović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Dejan Šulkić, Gorica Gajić, Miladin Ševarlic, Nenadak, Nenad Canak, Goran Čanak, Goran Čabradić, Marijak, Marija Čabradić, Marijak, Marijavić, Marijavić, Marjan Papić and Lapić. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milija Miletic. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10816	Thank you. I have submitted this amendment and regarding the obligations of our agricultural producers that use the incentives given by the Ministry of Agriculture and the framework of these incentives have obligations that they must fulfil. Since we all know that a large number of farmers use incentives, and in southeastern Serbia, but these are the wave of people who have not been informed enough, they do not have enough knowledge, which is why these people may not respect certain criteria and are asked to return the money they received as an incentive. Here, in the bill of law, it says that within 30 days of lawfulness, they must recover those funds. I suggested that this deadline be extended to 60 days, precisely because a large number of older people, people who are not well informed enough, they can't return that money in that period of 30 days, but maybe they have to sell something they have, a cow, a calf, a lamb, anything. That's why I thought about extending that deadline to 60 days. At the very least, I think it will have understanding and a competent ministry, because in the following year there are many incentives given to our agricultural producers with an accent on southeastern Serbia and mountainous areas.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10817	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10818	Thank you. This amendment to Article 1(1) of point (5) of Article 1 of the Act amending and supplementing the Act on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development proposes to shorten the time limit within which the users of the incentives are obliged to keep the documentation relating to the exercise of the right to incentives. Given that the right to use incentives is subject to legal persons, entrepreneurs and natural persons, holders of commercial family agricultural holdings, under the prescribed conditions, we believe that, in particular, farmers' owners are obliged to keep documentation within the time limit set by the proposing, so we have proposed a shorter deadline with the amendment, which we also consider to be within the time limit within which the necessary control can be carried out. So, the SRS is against all possible abuses that could happen by users of incentives, but we are against these same users creating any additional burdens. In the privatisation process, our state allowed large businesses involved in agriculture, but also in the processing of agricultural products, to simply disappear. One example is from the south of Serbia "Poreče" from Vucje. "The river" from Vucij owns a refrigerator for the accommodation of 7,000 tonnes of goods, three cooling tunnels and a warm processing and distillery. The stock at that time had a decision to introduce bankruptcy of 36,000 litres of distillates, worth close to a million euros. Afterward, workers of this agricultural combination worked 37 hectares of their orchards and another 360 hectares of land so far, which are now due to a lack of money in an abandoned state. This is just one example of how the state of Serbia allowed agricultural production to be destroyed and that on the other hand we have uncontrolled imports of agricultural products. It is unacceptable for the SRS, and we will always insist that the state treats agriculture much more responsibly in which we see a chance for recovery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10819	Thank you. The word is by MP Ljubisa Stoimirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10820	Dear colleagues and colleagues, this is one of the amendments and you can see the goodwill of the fellow Members who proposed this amendment to help develop our agriculture. I think that all of us, no matter what parties they belong to, should try to meet the Ministry and help both the Ministry and the Minister try the easiest way to solve the problems that are really piled up in this area. It's not, normally, the mistake of neither this government nor the previous governments, it's one process that's been going on for a long time, and that's why we all have to do it together, with all our strength to try and solve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10821	Thank you. The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10822	Dear Chairman, honourable MPs, just a few words about this amendment. I've come to understand your intention not to keep so long the documentation necessary for farmers to apply for an incentive. However, if, in the voting day, you accept amendments and additions to the Agricultural and Rural Development Act relating to IPARD funds, it will also be integrated and it will be the same type of incentives, and we have a obligation to keep a five-year record by those who have received the means of purpose under these procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10823	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 2 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Milija Miletic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10824	Here in this amendment, I also wanted to put the word "domestic" with the term in my neighborhood, otherwise it's domestic colored beef, the type of symental. I think we should have put in here where there are cows for farming calves to put home-made, or the type of symental, because we all know that in our Serbia, that the largest number of our holdings, agricultural holdings, are small and have domestic colored beefs, a type of symental that is very high quality, very good, which can serve for both milk and meat, and it has always been good and good when there is a system of cows and calves. That's why I suggested here, because I know that this is all that stands here, that everything is good, but in the end I'm sure that in the next period we'll have the possibility that the calf system can also help and domestically colourful, or the type of symental, that it can also use those resources because it's very necessary for our people not to buy exactly that race that's pure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10825	The word has a minister, Branislav Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10826	Dear Chairman, honourable Members, I would just like to say that the domestic symental within two dimensions is covered and already integrated with the existing system of measures, so there is no need to specifically isolate it, because it is already in the system of measures and persons with this type of animal have no problem and can absolutely use incentives.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10827	Thank you. By amendment, MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10828	I agree with the Minister, I appreciate what you're saying. You're right.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10829	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Milija Miletic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10830	I put it there, because Southeastern Serbia, mountain-mounted areas, devastated municipalities, the ageing population of people, has a large number there, should be much more isolated. That's where I suggested that five thousand dinars not be there, but that there be seven and a half thousand dinars. For this very reason, because it is much harder to make agriculture there and we need to invest more there, but I am sure it is agreed both in the budget and in the following year, it will be much more isolated for mountainous mountainous farming areas, for the southeastern part of Serbia. I expect that together, all of us together, there is also a competent ministry headed by our minister, Mr. Nedimovic, to change that rule and to give us a greater, much greater opportunity for people who remain there to live, who remain there to guard cattle and other agricultural works, to stand out at least 50%, if not more. That was my goal, to put attention to, and already done by the Ministry and our government headed by our prime minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10831	Thank you. The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10832	Dear President, Your Honor, this amendment of yours is not possible for us to adopt, but through regulations, since a minimum amount of 5,000 dinars has been established, for marginally undeveloped areas will be increased and thus through sublegal acts, we will establish a larger amount and thus help in these areas, where the special conditions of life and work are, to obtain greater incentives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10833	Thank you. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10834	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, the amendment that we have submitted to this member also refers to the fact that cows for farming calves receive the same amount of incentives, as well as other cows for producing milk, calves, etc. But if we are already talking about incentives, I don't think this is the right way to encourage the production of milk and livestock in Serbia, especially through large livestock farming, because the trend we've been facing since 2010, is that the number of throats of large cattle in decline, and what's even more dangerous is that we are losing the amount of milk produced per cow's throat. It's a serious warning, and I don't think this tool is going to give the right results. We need to turn to stimulate more productivity, therefore, that we have a larger amount of milk on our throats, not that we have more throats and less milk. So we need to find somewhere here what European standards are, in which direction we want to encourage the production of milk and maintain this level of throat of large cattle that Serbia currently has. Also, speaking of milk production, we are already facing problems here. So, the levies, or not the levies, but the premium we have from seven dinars per litre of milk, I'm not sure it'll be enough as of January 1st if the levies are lifted to import milk. So we know that in the previous period there was a situation that due to the abolished quotas in Europe there were market surpluses of milk and our milk producers rightly could be afraid of what would happen on January 1st if we were forced to stop that levies, which we kept for the previous six months, we would end. Will with a premium of seven dinars per milk we will be able to support our farmers that here in Serbia they can sell their milk, not to mention some exportation to other markets. Also, we didn't have any measures in the previous period that would cost production. If we don't already have the means to raise the levies, let's in any way make it easier for people to produce milk and maintain their livestock fund. Therefore, I think that it is generally necessary to consider whether it is the right way to give subsidies to the throat or to go to stimulate higher productivity, i.e. higher milk production per throat, as well as whether the premiums will remain at that level or perhaps need to be increased. Some countries in the environment have a milk premium even about 24 era cents which, you'll agree to place milk producers from those countries in a much better position than ours here in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10835	The word is made by the National MP Snježana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10836	I thank you, I use the time of the parliamentary group. The Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development determines minimum amounts and I hope that when a regulation is made, the Ministry will take a good look at the possibility of your proposal being actually adopted. We all did in the previous period, and I am convinced that the current furniture in the Ministry also cared about being as much incentive as possible, first of all, when it comes to livestock measures. I have to say, it's not true that no results have been made in livestock. We failed in the previous period to stop the trend of reducing domestic animals, meaning the animal fund Serbia has at its disposal. And as for production data, livestock production records a higher level compared to the previous year, which you can see in the published data in the book, the Green Paper published by the Ministry of Agriculture and they are done on the basis of statistics. So the shifts are present, visible, not great, but in livestock, and these little shifts, positive trends are very important and say that we are on a good path. As far as milk premiums are concerned, milk premiums have been paid, and I am not sure whether those who say that milk premiums are in the environment somewhere, given that all the member states of the European Union are, therefore, larger premiums there. According to what I know and the information I have, there is no milk premium in the countries of the European Union. Subsidying, i.e. encouraging dairy production and milk production, is done on the basis of milk-moving, which doesn't mean that we didn't want incentives to be 25 and maybe more thousands, everyone wants to, but given what is available when it comes to agrarian budget, then this, in my opinion, is a reasonable measure, with what I say here, that we also encouraged marginal areas with most amounts in the previous period, with smaller quotas for achieving premiums based on the milk submitted. The odds have been 1,500 liters so far, and I believe the Ministry will continue to work on that path, because there is no other way. We must never allow the fall we had in our previous years.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10837	The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10838	Your Honor, I just want to look back on one thing. Here were the incentives for calf farming cows. This is not at all about this amendment on milk premiums, and in general incentives relating to quality dairy cows. I absolutely want to say that we have to start from the market and about what's on the markets around us, what's the trend. Trend in the medium and longer term is that the demand for beef is increased. We need an increase in the number of throats that do not have performance so that they can be classified as high quality breeding throats, but we need them primarily because of the development of the processing sector. We have to have a certain quantum, a certain amount of throat, so we can even talk about increasing the number of processors. There is a demand for this type of meat from Serbia, among other things, is one of the markets, the market and the European Union, the Chinese market. We have agreed three certificates with China related to beef, but good trends are also in sheepmaking, gambling. We have good trends in livestock, but the premium thing has absolutely nothing to do with it. The premiums are fixed. The situation is much better than it was a year and a half ago when the government, if it hadn't been for the administrative measures it introduced, would have had a completely unprotected space for Serbia and today we wouldn't be talking about this at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10839	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? National MP Radoslav Milačić submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Goran Jesic, Gordana Comić, Goran Ćirić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Maja Vidinović, Natasa Vukković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic and Veroljub Stevanović submitted the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Goran Jesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10840	I will use time for amendments and time after the parliamentary group. The intensity of this amendment is that others follow, is to increase the amount of livestock funds that are in the biggest problem. We will have a agenda point that comes after this with regard to Serbia's water industry, especially in the Vojvodina domain, where we have a story about irrigation. We talk about irrigation all the time. The prime minister was talking about a million acres of irrigation. There is no greater danger of devastation of land than of a large amount of water, especially in Banat. If you want irrigation, you need a condition to repair that land. If you want two cultures, you need livestock to fix that land. Without it they're very attached dots to each other. What's my problem with this law is that the amendments have arrived at one part and they haven't. Certainness and predictability are a professional thing. I think it's terribly important that the measures you're introducing today and through this law be of long-term character, that you commit yourself not to break the law next year. You can change the level of funding, but you must leave the line of measures at least at seven years, or from the EU budget agrarian year, and that will lead to certainty, and predictability is already agrarian policy. I've had some amendments there before that don't concern these being forced by law to forbid, to reduce the amount by that year, and you can change it in two years, and after that, you can't cancel the whole investment period. That's one thing. The other thing we need is quality. There's a dramatic need to pay attention to what we're going to invest in. We have a serious problem with genetics, whether it's pork, cattle, sheepmaking, it's a serious problem with genetics. It's not possible to give subsidies to male cows that give 13, 14 liters per day of milk. It's not worth it to the manufacturer, it's not worth it to the owner, and throwing money is for the state. It's very important to take care of genetic potential, and it's very important that we know what the certainty we're going to get when we allocate these funds. The funds have, we talked about in principle, the funds can be eliminated from other positions that we think exist in the budget as a waste of money. Finally, the finance minister agreed – this is Er Serbia, Belgrade on water, various projects and should be isolated, where, in the capital investment of agriculture. There's money, we can't figure out how to split it. It's the key to the problem of these subsidies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10841	The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10842	Dear Chairman, honourable MPs, the aim of this measure, which is first introduced into the system, is to increase the stock fund and the possibility of developing a processing sector, related to beef. First of all, because of trends that are pretty good in the middle and long term. It's just our idea of long-term and certainness. It is our idea to make this amount this year and the idea is in line with the monetary capacities that are available to even increase, for one simple reason because we need an increased number of throats in livestock. We have analysed all the measures of agrarian policy with international financial institutions, primarily with the World Bank, in line with the practices that exist in the countries in the environment. What we have intensities is that in the future, we pay by quality from future budget years. We have to develop systems in order to get to that, but the idea is that, just once again, the amendments and additions to the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development, for the first time, after a long number of years, have increased figures, increased subsidies and introduced new measures, we do not have a download. So we have a positive trend, we have an increased budget. These are things that are very important in the long term, certainty and quality and to develop the processing industry.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10843	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Milojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Goran Jesic, Gordana Komic, Goran Ćirić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Maja Vidinović, Natasa Vukković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic and Veroljub Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10844	Very short. We were just talking about the milk premium, that we don't have a premium around a liter of milk, I agree with the former minister with you, but we have other instruments that raise the price to 45 of our dinars, let's say 35, 36 euro cents. We have a huge difference within the Republic of Serbia where 35 dinars without VAT are the price of a decent class, not an extra class. On the territory of Vojvodina, you have 22, 23, 24 dinars on the territory of eastern Serbia, and here with my fellow veterinarian, I agree that we must consider how to strengthen production there. We need to catch more money. Money exists, let's not throw it away, let's invest in what we need and what it will bring to the farmers. It's not a good idea to invest money on these investments, but to invest here, and it will bring benefits to every agricultural producer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10845	Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10846	The Honorable Chairman, honourable MPs, as I said earlier, is our idea to create a certainty and certainty that the funds that have been provided will be paid. I have to say that we used 92% of the funds through the Agrarian Payment Authority today, 92% of the funds, which means there's an absolute incentive system. As far as endangered areas are concerned, it is our idea to help these people improve their quality of milk through the purchase of musicians through the purchase of other equipment. She was absolutely right about the letter of Bogosavljevic when she said there were no premiums in the environment. They're gone. There are only indirect givings, because there is a colourfulness from earth to earth. Even the EU itself was very difficult a year and a half ago when there was a huge problem in sanctions, between the EU and Russia, how to bring individual member states into the system and how to solve the problem of excess milk. Among other things, they decided to grant non-milk subsidies. Money was given, money was given for not making milk. A billion and a half euros have been spent on solving the problem of excess milk. The situation in the milk market is far better than it was a year and a half ago. I repeat again that there were no administrative measures that the Serbian government had to adopt today we would have had total chaos on the milk market, but today we do not have and we have to protect the dairy sector.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10847	The word has the People's MP Goran Jesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10848	Replica. It's not just the Russian market, it's a generic milk problem. I picked up the line. [[President: I did not say the replica, but you gave yourself a replica.]] It's not just that, and we need to be aware of that. Quotas were abolished within the EU, and then the problem also arose with excess milk fat due to the Russian market. I'm not sure, we're ready here today, I know you can't, it's not just up to you, but we have to invest in capital investments more, to be competitive, because we can't use levies anymore, and our quality is desperate, we're terrible at quality. We have to deal with producer education, hygiene, etc. It's not just the muses, we need lactofreezes, holding conditions, some manual objects that will have tiles, etc. It's important that we do it as soon as possible and as much as possible. We want more funds to be located here, we have more quality in capital investments. There won't be a permanent problem solved, they're more competitive than we are, they have better genetics, they have bigger subsidies decades back, and we have to fight something. Without livestock, which must be 60% of all agriculture, and out of that 80% of cattle, we can't deal with intensive military production, we can't do fruit growing. We're not gonna have a stable fertilizer. We can't talk about two harvests, because there's nothing to fix the land we're going to drain into two harvests. We can't talk about irrigation. We must always keep in mind that no matter how profitable it is or doesn't have to get more money, to generate other things. Not to mention the social category, because the most people do cattle in rural areas and the poorest are people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10849	The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Milojic. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Goran Jesic, Gordana Komic, Goran Ćirić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Maja Vidinović, Natasa Vukkovic, Tomislav Žigmanov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic and Veroljub Stevanović. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 6th amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10850	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of farmers and cattlemen, I would like to thank the Government for accepting this amendment. What's this about? It was predicted that the subsidy for the cattle should be granted to that agricultural producer holding the throat for 185 days. The amendment I proposed on behalf of the cattlemen has reduced that deadline to 120 days for the simple reason that in June to 300 kilos are bought and does not take 185 days to reach such throats. That's why I suggested that the deadline be reduced to 120 days so that someone wouldn't have to hold the cattle to achieve the subsidy, thus losing to the quality of meat. So he can compete successfully on the market and get what he wants under the law. The second reason is because the party to the former regime, while leading agrarian politics, supported plant production. By supporting herb production at the expense of livestock, we came into a situation to export huge quantities of corn, about three and a half million tonnes, and to import pork and beef exports almost fell to zero. I think it's measured all hundreds of tons, and we haven't used the quotas we had in the EU. With this in mind, because there are hyper-productions of milk in Europe, the lack of beef is obvious and we think that in bovine cattle there is a chance. If we take kosher and halal slaughter, I believe we can restore the faith of cattlemen in this type of production, because during the former regime's party, with a million and 700 thousand cattle, we have fallen to 918 thousand pieces and have done ourselves great damage. At 800,000 hectares of pasture, at more than three million hectares of farmland, we have only 0.4 conditional throats per hectare, which is far less than a few times the EU average. This support of plant production at the expense of livestock has led us to work with 30 to 40% capacity and therefore the measures of the new government and government before this in agriculture went to the benefit of high-intensity production, meat production, milk and processing, so that our processing capacities work, that our farmers earn, rather than exporting huge quantities of corn, that others in that corn soybeans make profits. For that reason, it's my amendment and I want to thank the government once again for understanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10851	The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10852	I proposed to encourage users on the basis of direct payments to limit the maximum amount of incentives for one calendar year to 30 million dinars. This is a kind of attempt to fight monopolization and globalisation of the market, because one of the measures that we used to justify insufficient money in the budget was in 2013 when we abolished milk premiums for all agricultural producers, i.e. restricting that the premium can be made by seven dinars per litre only those who have higher production of milk, quarterly, of a thousand and a half for mountain areas, or three thousand liters for flattening areas. It's always a problem that there's not enough money. I suggested that the maximum amount of incentives be 30 million dinars. Why? To make much more money to encourage small and medium-sized producers, to get healthy competition. If we pump those that already have huge surfaces, large farms that are usually monopolies on the market, which we call tycoons in agriculture and give them incentives that are greater than 30 million dinars, we practically narrow the market. We don't have the funds for the little ones, and for the big ones, we're giving out huge funds and we're making a limited market where they're going to share cakes with each other, and at the heart of those who could have their own agricultural holdings, to deal with this family business, and that the state is helping them. I think it's a much more logical and healthy reason than to pump those with huge surfaces, huge farms. It's enough to make 30 million dinars. Why would we have a tycoon named Todorovic, Mathievich, or I don't know who we're pumping huge money to, based on incentives, when there's no need for that? They themselves are strong enough to carry out their production.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10853	The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by Ivan Kostic, Bosko Obradović, Marija Janjušević, Dragan Vesović, Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Ivan Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10854	Dear Ministers with Associates, Chairman, People's MPs, citizens of Serbia, I absolutely don't understand why this amendment is not accepted. What Dvori asked for in Article 7 of the Amendment and the addition of the Encouragement Act is that the funds that exceed 10 million dinars do not diminish households that have two household members under 18 years of age. So we're talking about fostering agriculture, we're talking about the constant, for several years now since this government, the desire for rural households to be strengthened, and one specific amendment is not accepted. What's the explanation for what you're saying? The reason is that the EU does not recognise direct payments independently of the number of members. What kind of answer is that? So again, we stand by what we have said in the principle debate that you have passed this law in order to bring our legislation in line with EU orders, which is absolutely pointless for us. The only two resources that can revitalise this state of Serbia are diaspora and agriculture, and you don't accept such an amendment? So, I don't understand what this is about, and that is proof that your policy is just a policy of assembling in the EU, which is absolutely damaging directly to people who are dealing with agriculture in Serbia. I don't know why it is, I'd like you to explain it to me, but don't ever say that you care about the survival of young people in the country, that you care about the development of rural areas, if you don't support these amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10855	The word has Goran Jesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10856	I think, Minister, you must finally say what we ask of you. It's clear that someone will be the winner, and someone will be the loser. You have to say it through IPARD and through this way of giving, and that's why we have this debate and we have to be fair to the agricultural producers who are watching us, and a lot of them are looking at this today, clearly telling them that they have to be better, that they're going to get good and that they can't keep this number of employees in agriculture. We must finally be honest. You said the prime minister mentioned it in the exposé, but it stopped at half a sentence. We want to make this a serious business branch. With 5.5 billion to export 10 billion in five years and 20 in 10 years. This means that we will have dramatically higher salaries in health care, dramatically higher salaries in education, dramatically higher salaries in police and military. That's what that means. We can't export some third things. We can only export what we know we are doing, and in order to do so, we need to be competitive, and to be competitive, we need to have capital investments. For capital investments, not everyone will be ready and we must say it openly in this House. I insist that someone say that, because we will have all these debates that lead people astray. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10857	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10858	Dear Madam Chairman, honourable MPs, it could have been heard in previous statements that the support measure system we are coordinating exclusively with the EU and that it is our only goal. Absolutely not. We are doing this all because of Serbia and Serbian agricultural producers and are developing a system of competitiveness measures through incentives. We need to be aware that we can't just stay at a certain level, but we need to develop quality, and that's the only way we can through investment. I'll remind you once again that we have one measure that we've introduced into the system, it's for young farmers, so absolutely not this claim that we don't take care of it. The second thing I also want to say is, exactly the system of competitiveness measures through investments has increased the amount of subsidies by four times, from 526 million to 2.2 billion. It's our idea to increase quality, by making more additional value in agricultural production. Our goal is to develop production within agriculture, and we can only do this through competitiveness measures. I think it's clear that the Serbian government's intrinsicity is through the allocation of funds for investment what it wants to achieve. (Ivan Kostic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10859	You have no right to a replica. It's not a replica. You have time. Do you want to follow the amendment? No, I don't. ) Parliamentarians Dejan Sulkic and Gorica Gajic together submitted the 7th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Dejan Šulkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10860	Thank you. The proposal to amend and supplement laws reduces maximum limits. In fact, there's an increase in the decrease. It doubles from 5% to 10% and 10% to 20%. In the answer I received, an argument rejecting the amendment that it is fairer. Therefore, not only for this restrictive approach, but also for the Law on Encouragements, i.e. its changes and additions, similar to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, represent one redistribution and thus increase the amount of reductions from 5% to 10% and 10% to 20%. It would be good if we had a projection, I said in the explanation of the amendments, how many people are limited by 10 to 20 million, what is more than 20 million, and then let's assume that if there are 100 or 1,100 in the next period, then we project that in this way we will duplicate these reductions and that is equal to five million euros, and that amount is redistributed by focusing on other costs. Don't be sure, Minister, as far as young people are concerned, you won't miss something. At the end of last year in the Great Plan, a retired judge, a MP and a man who has never dealt with agriculture, received 60,000 euros in incentives for a vulture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10861	Thank you. To Article 7. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10862	Thank you, Your Honor. In order to avoid confusion, IPARD's funds will not apply at all to 75% of Serbia's family agricultural holdings, according to the 2012 census. So, for IPARD funds, they're practically not going to be able to compete with any of the owners on average. Individually, they may be able, which has up to five hectares of land, because there are 860,000 of them, and they have about 600,000 hectares. When you divide those two digits, you'll see that it's incomparably less than those minimum two acres on average I'm talking about, which are necessary to compete at all for IPARD funds. When you refuse out of those 75% even those who do not have a family household member, who has completed at least a high school or another high school with exams from the area they are applying for, then virtually no one will get those funds. I'm asking you to check with the commander of the army and the police, who tours the south and east of Serbia to prevent the illegal entry of migrants. They're completely empty villages. They don't have anywhere to stop by to drink water. Is it Serbia's interest to leave empty areas, instead of stimulating these small holdings by half a hectare of tiny solicitations? The minister spoke of the best project implemented in Serbia since 2000, it is a Danish programme, with the co-subsidisation of funds from the Ministry of Agriculture. They only made a mistake that they did not create a cooperative freezer through the cooperative, because they would participate in the distribution of profits in this second post-farming phase. We practically don't have a chance to do that. I suggested changing these interval groups here. To no extent, Minister, you have no maximum. Does this mean that these European funds will only be allocated to tennis and other foreign investors, who will use their loans, benefit from their banks by 0.5% interest or 1% interest, instead of ours who pay 5%-6% or 7% interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10863	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10864	Dear Madam Chairman, honourable Members of the People, I think it is very important to say a few things. We sublegal laws absolutely regulate the system of maximum payments that can exist. The law lays down minimum amounts, and the maximum amounts that are realised are going to the sublegal act, in line with the coverage of the resources available on the basis of the budget. Another thing I want to say, if I went anywhere in the last 140 days, it was southern and eastern Serbia, for one simple reason, because these people need the most support and the most help. It is through our agricultural policy measures for 2017 and presented. These are exactly the areas where we can develop in small areas a certain type of agricultural production and create additional value. I'd just like to tell you for the public. I think it is very important to say that the highest potential for agricultural land, according to the list of agriculture, is the economic power of land that deals with vegetable production, and 10,800 euros is by agricultural land that deals with vegetable production. What's terrible is that it's a very small number of parcels under vegetable production. We are going through these measures, which we implemented for 2017, aimed at the development of vegetables, the development of fruit growing and the development of other branches that make added value in agricultural land. It's very important to say, especially for these parts you're talking about. Especially in those marginal areas, in those areas that are devastated, where we increase those amounts by a certain percentage.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10865	The word is from the MP Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10866	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we don't have 860,000 masters, as my fellow MP, Tito's youngest councilman, claimed. We've got 630,000, and it's registered in the vault somewhere around 250,000. I agree with the fact that it's very difficult to live, that the territories are empty, and that's why a billion more than the previous year are foreseen in rural development measures. It is precisely rural development measures, environmental protection measures, hunting measures, where everything is increased by the budget that we adopted, that is precisely what it should result in that the population does not leave the areas that are poorly populated, as almost a thousand inhabited places that have fewer than 100 inhabitants along the eastern and southern borders and administrative lines with Kosovo and Metohija. That's exactly why the government's working on it. But, ladies and gentlemen, you can't stand for the development of marginal areas on one side, and the STAR project, which was meant for cattle farmers on the Old Mountain, you put it in your private consulting pockets and then you give a lecture here to the farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10867	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10868	Thank you. I'm reporting for the amendment. Since we are talking about the Southeastern Serbia area, as my colleague professor, who I appreciate as a professor, says, but we have spoken on our board several times and made certain conclusions that we must put the southeast of Serbia first. Mr. Professor then said something different, that more should be done to central Serbia, but I always said Southeastern Serbia, mountainous areas and, normally, these things that were, as my colleague Risticevic said, if it was that the funds for investment on the Old Mountain went somewhere else, to some consulting houses, I don't think that's right. Therefore, honourable ministers, I know that in the coming period we will work maximum towards the southeast of Serbia to develop marginal areas and I fully support you and our ministry, as well as our government.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10869	The word has the People's MP Goran Jesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10870	Here you have the measures you've introduced for the first time. It's a good thing, it's dispersing and increasing values, especially rural areas. But I said in the plenary section, you have a problem you need to remove. The manufacturer from Pirot, from Svrlig, when you give him a mini-milkler 20,000 euros, which is enough for him, you give him professional help from the university, the institute, make your product that we all want to eat in Novi Sad and Belgrade, there is a problem that can only be sold in Nis, or someone from the area of Pirot only to Pirot, 40 km away from the place of production. It's a legal obligation. Today in Belgrade, in the best restaurants domestic products are being smuggled into boxing by buses. He's coming from Pirot to the boxing bus smuggled pyrotian cheese, a pyrot iron sausage. If we're already copying the laws, we'll copy it from Hungarian. It's 40 km, it's the biggest administrative center and it's the capital and several cities. Finally, if someone meets the hygiene and safety requirements for the production of the product, if you give him a knowledge service to produce a traditional product, allow him to sell it at a restaurant in Belgrade. There's an extra value here. What's he doing with the iron sausage in Pirot at the market? You have to change that urgently. That's the kind of thing you have in the experience of countries in the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10871	The word is a national letter from Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10872	Thank you. Here, for a few more minutes, as long as there's a member of the SPS, I'm going to use it right here to inform all of you here. In the previous two years, the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection has been working on the Regulation for small producers, and we have fully prepared this Regulation. I hope the new set will put him up for adoption very soon. What was the problem? The problem was he didn't have time to defend the Food Safety Act. It's a set of five laws and they were all saved, but it was just a short time. In order for that regulation to be adopted, it was necessary to amend this Food Safety Act, but believe that this rule is ready. I want to point out here that we did it with our colleagues from Hungary. Mr. Laszlo Varga is a Hungarian expert, he's been with us the whole time, he's been working, the rules are ready, he's great, and I think the fellow who continued after me will work, who is at the head of this ministry, certainly very soon and will adopt that rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10873	The word has a folk MP Ivana Stojiljković.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10874	Thank you, President. I'm just surprised today that our livestock farming today is the most concerned by those who invented an aflatoxin affair a few years ago and thus questioned our livestock production and milk production. It's probably something that farmers and cattlemen will never forget. I am glad that this government really recognized our potential in livestock, because we must not forget that a few decades ago our country exported about 30,000 tons of June meat, and it really lived well, and planes in then-Yugoslavia were also bought, and the rolling stock in Belgrade was restored, and that is what this government sees as a great potential and wants to return. I hope this ministry finds a way, it's going to be very difficult, to restore livestock farming and put it back on its feet in our country, but I hope that it will succeed and I really don't see any reason to doubt this good intention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10875	The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10876	Same after the amendment. A former colleague across from me said something about Srlig. I don't think that's negative, but I just want to say, since we want to rewrite some of the things that the government of Hungary is doing, our government, headed by our prime minister, held a session in Nis, where the government of Hungary and the Hungarian ministers, where we had their experience, and they've already taken one facility with us in Srlig, they want to do medicinal herbs and they want to invest there. Therefore, our government and our ministry are already working with governments that have experience in agriculture. I really think that now we will have a lot more opportunities to help undeveloped and marginal areas, such as Svrljig and Bela Palanka, through a programme for medicinal plants and other things that are important for south-east Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10877	The word has the People's MP Goran Jesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10878	Chemistry is math, just count. On 14 April 2013, then the first Deputy Prime Minister said that he would be responsible for aflatoxin to be sanctioned and after that was replaced by Mr. Goran Knezevic. That's the first thing. My dear colleague, the rule has been changed, no affair. Yeah, I'm worried, it's my job to worry. The other thing is, we didn't get along very well. You from Svrljig cannot have your primary products, it was tried by Minister Bogosavljevic to explain, you cannot at this time have a processing capacity that fits the rule of small. You don’t have to sell milk in ‘Imlek’, ‘Megle’, etc., but you have a small milkmaker, you make cheese. You can't sell it legally 40 kilometers away from your owners, the Food Safety Act, and the minister predicted and praised himself, but you didn't quite understand me, I'm going to talk slowly, this measure that he predicted small processing facilities, but there's a problem – when we make a product, we can't sell the market that pays the best, which is Belgrade, Novi Sad. We need to change that so that you of Srlig could sell the products here legally, not create a problem for the caterers and not create a food safety problem and create a problem for the manufacturers. That's my idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10879	The minister has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10880	The President-in-Office, honourable MPs, I think it's very good that this topic has been opened for small producers and the need for them to move to a higher stage where they start to process. Yes, it is true that the rulebook has been prepared, the regulation is in line with the experiences of Hungary and the problems that so far existed in the system of transporting goods to certain destinations will be solved. Why is that so important? I keep insisting on markets and that every thing has to go from the market to see if it makes any sense at all. Surely the markets of our remote areas are not only local regional centres, but also the largest city. We will already come out in January with proposals not only for the processing of milk, but also for other small processors we will cover the rules, because it is very important. We're going on two parallel tracks. For small processors and in the part of winemaking and part of dairy and in the processing of meat, it is very important that we resolve this. Also, on the other hand, we're going to go to large processing facilities, which are often talked about here, but we need processing capacities that have a market, not doing what we think we should do. It's been a long time since we've been able to do what we think, and it can be for a while, and then there's a situation where we've been in the last 15 years of the processing sector. It is important to develop those processing capacities that have good market trends. These are the European Union market, the Russian market, the Chinese markets and other countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10881	Thank you. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Šulkic, Milan Lapčević, Gorica Gajic. Parliamentarians Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, submitted the 9th amendment together. Miroslav Aleksic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10882	Thank you. Since this member refers to support for rural development, we wanted to increase the amount of donation from 45% to 50% by amendment, for the simple reason that in those parts of Serbia, above all I think of southern and southeastern Serbia, people have no excessive choice which they can deal with. So these people can't get a job in the companies and companies that are shut down, there's no private companies where they can work, they have to turn to agriculture. For this reason, I think the only chance to hire these people is to hire them through agriculture there are some positive shifts here, but we need to be more aggressive with measures encouraged and stimulated by these people so they can raise certain agricultural production. I've had the opportunity to visit those parts of Serbia and Bujanovac and the White Palanca, not to speak to everyone else, there's an unemployment rate of over 50%. These people have nothing else to live on if they don't produce some milk or pick up some plums to bake some brandy, etc. We just have to work with them specifically and we have to give them a chance to live in this country. Serbia is emptying out and dying out. People are leaving these areas because they don't see any perspective. The only perspective is that, through the work on our estates, we allow them to stay there where they have some stable sources of income, and that is why I think we should pay particular attention to them, that maximum incentives should be given, a special policy for these rural areas of Serbia, and I believe that in the next period and we will be able to see it in practice because all the previous years actually all came down to stories, but there was nothing on the ground, there were no results actually.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10883	The minister has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10884	Dear Madam Chairman, honourable MPs, I would just like to say that the Serbian Government, with greater allocation of funds for agriculture, has created the conditions that we can in these areas with difficult living conditions and work to determine a greater amount than is foreseen by law. We've passed a minimum by law, we're going to give priority to these areas through criteria, and plus we're going to find more funds for these marginal so-called sublegal acts. areas. This is one of the amendments, followed by a series of amendments regarding the same thing. I can now be responsible for telling everyone that thanks to the Budget Law proposed by the Government and adopted by this Parliament, the funds have been made available to increase the amount of funds for these devastated areas and that will be at least 10% higher than the minimum amount foreseen by the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10885	The 9th Amendment, with correction, was submitted by Ambassador Ševarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10886	Thank you, Madam President. I have submitted an amendment because there is no division in this article in several interval groups, i.e. the cost compensation is foreseen at a certain percentage of the value of a particular type of measure, when it comes to rural development, of only 30% of the total value, or 45% of the area with difficult working conditions in agriculture. I think these are extremely modest amounts, given the first part when it comes to agrarian. I think that here should increase as much as I suggested, and that means at least 45% of the total value for these areas with more favourable conditions, and 60% for areas with difficult working conditions. It is also necessary to limit the limit to 50 million dinars, in order to make as many users do so. At the same time, I would like to say that it is not true that the reduction of subsidies for plant production has increased so many subsidies for livestock production and that this will lead to the development of livestock production. Well, please don't eat that cattle air, cosmic rays or I don't know what, but it eats the cattle food produced in plant production. This plant production will be as expensive for the reduction of subsidies from 12,000 to 4,000 dinars per hectare. How are you going to ballerate cattle, if you don't even have a dinar regress for fuel? Furthermore, the people need to know that you have not prescribed minimum subsidies anywhere per hectare for plant production, but up to 6,000, so you have reduced from 6,000 subsidies to 2,000 and 6,000 contributions to regressions to 2,000, and for fuel you have reduced to zero and you say, that's by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10887	The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Kostic, Bosko Obradović, Marija Janjusevic, Dragan Vesović, Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojić. The word has Ivan Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10888	Respected Serbian citizens, the law could be called "the dead for agriculture" and the creation of Serbian agriculture uncompetitive. Mr. Secretary, I'm not happy with your answer to the last amendment, but it doesn't matter. Simply, rural households with more children are not interesting. What exactly am I trying to say here? So, the EU's goal is to bring down the number of people involved in Serbian agriculture to the level that is in Europe, that is 4%. That way, with this law that you're proposing, only great agro-complexes will survive. How will Serbian agriculture be competitive? If you are referring to Hungary, I see here that many people mention Hungary, they should know that Viktor Orban has invested only 600m euros in Hungarian citizens living in Vojvodina and thus strengthened both our machinery and their financial funds, so that they can be competitive here in Serbia. Why doesn't our government do that? Here, in particular, if you are already calling for EU laws, the incentives for rural areas in Romania, Hungary and Bulgaria are between 50% and 60%, and this was our proposal to increase these incentives. Not to mention incentives per hectare of a country that is only in Croatia 300 euros, not to speak Slovenia, not to speak Germany, the Netherlands, where 500-600 euros are. Someone here mentioned that some countries also give 900 euros. How do you ministers think our farmers are competitive, small and medium? There will be great, which will be received by the EBRD, from the IPARD, they will be, but small people will not be able to withstand the competition, especially since we signed the SAA and opened the borders for foreign imports. So, it's just this law only goes to the big players, and the kid doesn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10889	Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10890	The Honorable President, honourable MPs, I expected to hear everything, but I did not expect to hear such examples about the experience from the territory of Croatia. Now I'm going to tell you, and you've given me a good creamworth, a space that has had more direct payments in agriculture, which has experienced a reduction in agricultural production, which I've literally heard from the people who have dealt with the business that me and my colleagues are doing together, they've led to the fact that they've just died. We are literally insisting on the development of measures that will increase competitiveness. If you've just listened to me, wanted to hear me, I've just said that our intensity is not to be the minimum amount for rural development measures, these percentages that are foreseen by law, but that we're certainly going to increase them by 10% compared to what is foreseen, by sublegal acts, because we have enough resources in the budget. The government of the Republic of Serbia has made it possible for us, and in 2016 you already had such a trend, but we are now going to increase it even further. I think we've obviously agreed on some things, but I'm not sure we've heard from each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10891	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10892	So, I'll answer you why Croatian agriculture has collapsed. Because it is in the EU. It's lucky we haven't joined the EU yet. I've told here the incentives they get within their own country. So they're in front of us five times. One more thing that matters, we said that four ministers have changed here in the Serbian Ministry of Agriculture over the past four years, I would like you to come here in 2018, if you don't be relieved, and to see what the benefits of Serbian agriculture are in this law. That's what I'd like to see in a year and a half.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10893	Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10894	The Honorable President, honourable MPs, just for the sake of the public, I want to say a few things. Thank you for your good wishes, this means that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will have good capacities, have bigger budgets and contribute to agricultural producers, because you want to do this problem in advance in many years. On the other hand, both Romania and Hungary are the EU, so they did not experience Croatia's fate even though they are the EU. It's about finding the measure, what you want, whether you want to be competitive, or whether you want to indulge in the people. That's the essence of the whole story. I want this Serbia to be competitive in agriculture, to develop its agricultural production and to restart its processing industry, where additional value will be created and where, in any case, everyone will benefit from it, both the producer and the processor, and in the extreme line and the state of Serbia through the reduction of the external trade deficit.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10895	Thank you. Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10896	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, either one, or another, you can't talk about the level of European subsidies and be against European integration. At 104 million hectares of Europe, the truth is, for the entire agricultural production stands out 55 billion. If you take hectares as a criterion, that's 500 euros per hectare. It is true that Europe gives 4% of the social product from agriculture, not because their farms are weak, but because their industry is strong, and that is why it withdraws the first one, so it can pay 500 euros in subsidies, and that is why it can pay the Member States. These should decide, cannot be against European integration, but for European subsidies. It's up to them. Let them decide what they want. If they want us to have European subsidies, share with other members, or wish there is no European integration, they must say what they want. Either you're a musician or you're not, the way it is, you're going to get your aunt a cure, or your aunt needs to get you a cure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10897	Thank you. Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10898	Dear Mr. Minister, just about this comparison with Croatia, I absolutely agree, we should not compare ourselves with Croatia, because they were trying to force and give too much money to draw results in agriculture and failed, so, they got a counter effect because they lazy their producers, and of course it did not prove to be a good way. But on the other hand, they don't have the potential that we have, we have far greater potential, but on the other hand we've given away far, far less than they have to their farmers. And now there's a balance to be found. For Croatians, agriculture is not the primary thing. They also have less farmland processed, etc. But that's why we don't have the sea. We can't say that we in tourism will be able to measure ourselves with them but in agriculture and how we can be better and more successful than them. Therefore, it is not in this way that we should observe it but simply harmonize the measures to obtain maximum results.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10899	The word is Bosko Obradović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10900	When Vladimir Putin was asked what he thought of the sanctions that had led him to Western lands, he said it was one of the most beneficial things that could have happened to Russia's economy and agriculture. Only then did they think seriously about investing in their own agriculture. I have the impression, Mr. Minister, that we too would need something beneficial to happen that finally our government is beginning to think about developing its own economy and agriculture. You've been in power for five years, Mr. Minister, and you're telling me now, we're thinking about rebooting our food-processing industry. Well, what have you been doing for five years? Why don't you reboot? So it's going to be a key question here, so how is our little processor going to deal with the competition? You know, what does he look like? He looks like a boxer who goes into a boxing ring with Western competitors who are in full strength and fully ready for that boxing match, and he's tied hands and legs and has no chance of participating in that fight, because he has as many times less subsidies, because he has no customs extra-tariff elements of protection because he has no serious support for his country, because his country supports the arrival of Germany's "Tenis" and not him. Don't invite yourself too much to Hungary. Hungary has driven the IMF away. Hungary has taxed foreign banks. Hungary has banned the sale of agricultural land to foreigners. You're a long way from Hungary. You should learn from Hungary, but you can't learn anything from Hungary. So here is the key question that we all want to do with these amendments, all together from the opposition, which is how to protect a small Serbian farmer. The one who gets killed by the trade chains, who doesn't let him sell his goods in their shelves, because the Croatian trade chain brings its Croatian goods, there it is, the other brings its goods. They're all bringing their stuff in. And where to sell our domestic producer? Where to sell? What market? What domestic trade chain? The five percent we have left to keep trade in Serbia. We Serbs keep five percent of the trade in Serbia. Five percent of banks. Five percent of the media. They took everything from us, bought it from strangers, and now it's like, never mind, it's the market. Well, it does matter, it's not a market, it's a robbery of Serbian citizens on their way to the EU at all costs.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10901	All right, MP, now a little bit about article nine.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10902	So, this amendment is very precise and says- greater isolation for a small Serb farmer. So you've predicted so much and so much in the rural area, so much and so much in the difficult rural area where it's even harder to deal with agriculture. We say it's not enough. We can't compete with foreign companies, foreign trade chains, banks that finance their businesses, and your Prime Minister here said publicly, and I congratulate him on what he said publicly. No foreign bank will fund our economic activity.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10903	Milojic wants to advertise the Rules of Procedure not to talk about the agenda. What then, I was fine, I kept quiet all the time. All right, come on.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10904	Madam President, I'm advertising Article 108. - on the agenda of the National Assembly, the president is ageing. I hope you haven't heard, but you are obliged to warn the previous speaker who said the next sentence, that he hopes that someone will impose sanctions on Serbia. I hope that the awareness of all of us here is high enough and that this topic should not even be discussed in this high house, let alone the MP, regardless of the ideology, regardless of the political party it belongs to. We had sanctions 16 and 17 years ago, we know what disastrous consequences this has had for our country, and I don't think it's really appropriate, no matter who it comes from, that someone says that we, as well as the Russians, are going to have to impose sanctions on us. Thank you. (Bosko Obradovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10905	There's no replicating any damage to the Rules of Procedure. And he said, earlier speeches, now if he was thinking of you, but there's no replication of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Ask, Nenad Konstantinovic. He's the one who got into this. So no injuries to the Rules of Procedure, no replicas. What do they do? The word has a National MP Ivana Stojiljković.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10906	Thank you, President. I'll do it very briefly, because I've come to the amendment, first of all, to ask to discuss the details of this law today, and I've also noticed that the MP mentioned that a solution to our problems would probably, anytime we have sanctions, so that we can turn to ourselves to try so. As we've heard before, God forbid it ever happens again, we know what that means, and no country can succeed. Russia is big, it can handle isolation for a while, but of course, it all leaves consequences and certainly we all work better when we work together. And that's why I said this law, I'm sorry, we're just not talking about the details, because this law is just about us supporting small producers with this law to break and bring down the big monopoly. We have a market for June meat, it's really one product that we have a market for, we have a contract with the EU to export 9,000 tonnes, we literally make a statistical error when we export the meat, because we don't have that product. So, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has recognised what this product is, which we can produce ourselves, which can produce even the smallest agricultural producer, we will give it support in that and we will export the chicken meat, we will try to be the product with which we will recover our agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10907	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10908	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this sanctions thing can't go down like that. I'm obliged to say that our export of agricultural products is 2.7 billion. We don't export everything to Russia. A far smaller part we export to Russia and we without a market, without foreign markets, would be, in a agricultural sense, dead. What we need to do is raise the processing industry and the other industry, and pull the farm by force. We have to conquer other people's markets and I wouldn't want so many of our companies whose owners are foreigners, members of society are strangers, they'll sell their founding roles, they might sell their shares, but they'll stay here. But through these companies, we won somebody's markets. Through these companies now we have a surplus with Croatia, through these companies we have a surplus with Italy. So it is extremely devastating to advocate sanctions, because it would be a death noose for Serbian agriculture, as well as for the Serbian processing industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10909	The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10910	I'm reporting the same as the amendment, and my colleague Risticevic has already said some things about sanctions. Let's remember when there were sanctions and after the sanctions, what happened. In Serbia after the 2000 sanctions, the tsunami passed here, both in agriculture and in business, both in cooperative and everywhere. Therefore, we must always cooperate with everyone, respect each other, but Serbia must always think the way we do now, as our government and our agriculture minister are doing. We're planning funds for undeveloped areas, we're planning bigger funds, and we need to be on the ground normally. There's no itching in someone else's hand, it's said, in my village. So, we think for ourselves, we work for our own heads, and we work for our country and for our villages. Agriculture in the south, Serbia's east is a disaster, but it's not from today. Let's remember what happened before 2000, and what happened after 2000, how many cooperatives were destroyed, how many veterinary services were destroyed, how many structures that were the backbone of our agriculture were destroyed in the privatisation. Therefore, gentlemen, none of us want sanctions, but none of us want to happen in 2000 when a tsunami came for agriculture, for economy, for everyone here in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10911	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10912	Replication or time of the parliamentary group. Okay. So, the noose around the door of the Serbian economy and agriculture is your Stabilisation and Association Agreement. And you've heard well that no one here mentioned sanctions, but what can make you wise to turn to domestic economy and agriculture. What can make you not worry about the interests of foreign banks and foreign companies, such as Tennis, and not to subsidise more foreign companies that come to Serbia, but to direct all the forces of this people, society and state to support domestic economy and agriculture. Five years in power, give me an example of the food-processing industry you've restored. Let's hear it, congratulations. You say we're exporting, and how much are we importing? How much do we import, how many foreign goods have flooded our market, can we sell our own goods on our own market? Can our farmer sell in trade chains in Serbia? Okay, let's do it tomorrow. It can be 2%, and everything else comes from imports, and then there's this imported apple, then imported beans, then imported onions, and it kills the price of our domestic producer's competition. How do you protect him? You've abolished customs duties, there's no extra-tariff protection measures, there's not enough subsidies, there's no bank support, no foreign bank will support investment in domestic economy and agriculture. That's what I told you that Alexander Vukitch confessed as well. No foreign bank will support a domestic businessman and farmer. What does that mean? You have to have a state, domestic development investment bank. How can without Agro Bank talk about support for agriculture? It's a story for little kids. As long as you don't have the Agro Bank, while you don't have a bank that only supports domestic businessmen and farmers on favourable loans, there is no development of domestic agriculture. There isn't. An empty story and subsidies and everything. The market, yes. Secure the market. Russia is offering you various agreements, you can't co-operate with Russia because you're being threatened by someone in Brussels. Putin told you nicely, now that the sanctions have been imposed...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10913	Can we not have Putin, at least one sentence?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10914	We can't without Putin, because he's the most important statesman and politician in the world today.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10915	Great. Only he doesn't write you amendments, that's a little problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10916	But the amendment says the EU is destroying us.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10917	No, the amendment says 30% is replaced by 50%, and 45% is replaced by 60%, and you signed it, not Vladimir Putin.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10918	Chairman, I understand that you have the goal of taking away me and this little time that I have, and it's not disputed.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10919	That's what the citizens gave you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10920	Serbian citizens now see how you take my time, and speak in my time, not in yours, in mine. And you have no right to do that. Don't take my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10921	I'm here by article 27 to tell you not to talk about Putin, or write down 200 amendments on Putin. So you have to talk about the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10922	Great. So you can't talk about Putin in the Serbian Parliament. Is that possible? (Bosko Obradovic: Who should I talk about, about Biden, about Hilara, or about who? [[Disabled microphone.]] )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10923	What are you running away for? Is that part going now, so I'm scared. So that's when you guys start yelling at me, but I'm here to run a session anyway. Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10924	Dear Madam Chairman, honourable MPs. There were few words about the processing sector, about the markets. I'm proud of what I did in the previous period, one of the symbols that was completely destroyed and devastated, it's Mitrovica's Mitros. We found an investor. It's that "Mitros", I'll remind you of where it is, the Jarak Way b.b, Sremska Mitrovica. You were there in April of the month and you said it would never work. This "Mitros" does not work now, there are 186 employees, exports to the EU final meat products. This "Mitross" has applied for exports to Russia. In the coming days, the same is expected. This "Mitros" also exports to Vietnam, exports to Indonesia, now wants to the South African Republic, 786 co-operatives currently have. I'd be a happy man and I'd go this second if each of us had just one processing capacity installed in Serbia we'd done the perfect job.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10925	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10926	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I hope our farmers follow and see who's serious here, who's real, who's virtual and who's saying what's not standing. I don't know what Joseph Broz would say about the appearance of his youngest councilman and his boss, but as far as the SAA attributed to us is concerned, I am obliged to say that the SAA was launched in 2005 during the government of Vojislav Kostunica. It was initialled in 2007 during the government of Vojislav Kostunica. It's that party that helped those youngest Broz councilmen somehow see the Assembly. It's the same party, it's the same one...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10927	Ambassador, I'd like to ask you about the amendment. Now you're talking about Tito. Please...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10928	I'm talking about the amendment, and I'm talking about the same way the predecessor spoke. So, we're talking about incentives, we're talking about an amendment, but I have to tell you, to respond to what the previous speaker was saying, because his policy here looks like I'm throwing a trigger, and then I'm going with the professor in three months to pick up a pig.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10929	Ambassador Lapčević, you have no more time, unfortunately. The word is by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10930	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I think it's evident that we all have the will to raise our agriculture, to set off some better ways. We all agree that a more successful job would be to provide more resources, as our people say – how much money, how much music, but it is also evident that these funds are limited. What is it I don't like? We manage to define the problem and define it quite well, but then in realisation, we make a big mistake. What kind of mistake is that? Every one of us is willing to criticize some before him, they're to blame for everything that's happened, it's all their fault. We don't see that we're all carrying the blame together, because we're all together through about 10, 20, maybe years...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10931	MP, about the amendment. I'm gonna take a big break now, 'cause no one's gonna talk about the amendment in the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10932	I'm talking about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10933	Only the minister. Rarely anyone wants to talk about the amendment, then let's split up. Zoran Krasic throws. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10934	I can't give it to Krassic when he won't give it to me, you're giving it to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10935	There you go. Thank you. Shall we take a break? (Radoslav Milojic: No. No, no, no, Ambassador Obradovich, do you wish to continue in this spirit?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10936	Thank you, Chairman. Mitros Smrem. Tell me, how much do you give to foreign companies that come to Serbia? And how much money have you given them so far, our money from the Serbian state budget, a pair of taxpayers? Did you ask them if they wanted their money given to foreign companies coming to Serbia? Why didn't you give that money to rebuild some kind of agricultural and industrial combination? Why didn't you give that money to the associates who would join their business, to help them? Why didn't you give that money to the agricultural machinery industry? Now that you're giving subsidies to buy a new tractor not to go to a stranger we have to buy a new tractor, but to go to our home company that manufactures a tractor. You see, you don't understand that logic that we have to produce, process and spend in our circle, on our market, to close that chain, not to export money from this country. Our bank to our manufacturer, our manufacturer, our processors sell in our trade and money all the time in this country, there's no extra profits from foreign multinational companies that carry money from this country. Not only do they carry the money they made, which wouldn't be so controversial, but we still subsidize them and give them money to come and open jobs. Excuse me, why don't you let the young married couples go back to the country, take care of the farm? Why didn't you rebuild the agricultural machinery industry? As this amendment says, which you don't give to small producers anymore, or, let's just say, I say we make them join together, so we say, if you want to team up, you'll get bigger subsidies, if you don't want to team up with cooperatives, you'll get less subsidies. So, we're pushing for cooperative. If they're in cooperatives together, they use the same mechanism, cheaper fuel, seeds, they can come with larger quantities on the Russian market. So, a bunch of motivational things to pick up. You now say - a cooperative in Italy. What kind of cooperative? It's cooperative. Co-operation in Serbian. 120 years ago, we had a law on cooperatives, cooperative banks, we were a serious state. The Kingdom of Serbia was a serious country. The cooperative was serious. Where is the cooperative in Serbia today?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10937	Thank you. You've wasted group time. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10938	I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a member of 107, which speaks of dignity in the National Assembly. The dignity of the National Assembly is respected when the truth is spoken, and the dignity of the National Assembly is violated when false and false are constantly brought forth. One of the previous speakers cited lies concerning the government of Vojislav Kostunica and the signing of the SAA. In 2005, a feasibility study was signed, and in 2008, when Djelic signed the SAA, the government fell. Just for the record, there are no lies about the work of the DSS and Vojislav Kostunica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10939	I don't know all the data from Serbia's multi-party system, so I can't react, but that's why the MPs are here to react, and it's up to me to hold a session. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10940	Article 103 concerning 107. The right of MPs to advertise an injury. It was done just now because it was said that I had violated the dignity of the National Assembly. That's just not true. I ask my fellow Members to listen well. I said the SAA was started in 2005, and initialled in 2007. So, initialled in 2007, which was the previous store before the signing. I'm still saying he was initialled in 2007. If not, I resign. If so, let your colleague resign.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10941	Thank you. Does anyone want to make an amendment? The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10942	Obviously, this amendment opened a little broader discussion of the policy of fostering agriculture and rural development, in general. Dear Ministers, 17 April 2016, news – open factory Mitros in Sremska Mitrovica. That's right. I agree. Now the essence of incentive. This is our story of failed privatisations and ascension, Vucic said, and added that the Serbian government helped the factory with 5.3m euros in taxpayers' money for three hundred jobs. It is 17.660 and some euros per employee, 5.3m euros for 300 jobs. In one sentence, it is stated. So it's giving. The factory was sold for 800,000 euros. Just. Of course, it's a picture of the market and the society where we are and the degree of its devastation, you know, and a picture of a system that isn't there, so these investors have to be further, fat and fat, subsidized in order to invest in a system like this. It's not just a policy of incentives for direct payments, and the most talk here was about whether direct payments are small, whether they're diverse enough, whether they're frequent enough. The policy of direct payments as a measure of incentive is like treating cancer with aspirin. It's not nearly enough medicine and it doesn't target the cause. The cause can be struck by empowerment, by increasing competitiveness, that is what you said yourself, it should be the goal, knowledge, creation and transfer of knowledge we see as being in the IPARD, because you can give two, six, five, eight, 68 thousand dinars per hectare, morning, irrelevant, Serbian pair, money, which was brought into the tax system by the maid from some completely different activity and she helped her tax dinar with the aid of agriculture, but it will not eliminate the causes. The reason for the increase in competitiveness, creation and transfer of knowledge, association, cooperatives, is that the country offers the remaining agricultural land to the paori on the most favourable credit conditions for a 20-year period, to join them to jointly strengthen their negotiating position with customers and suppliers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10943	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Goran Jesic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10944	I don't have a problem with Mitros. Oh, God, let's all of these 11 billion respect exclusively the processing industry. This should be our goal, not to encourage some other industries that are not sustainable. The problem is competitiveness and the problem is that we have a semi-closed market and that we have a situation to protect large ones at the expense of small producers. That's what we talked about two days ago, and things like that can't happen anymore. It is 17,000 euros too much for a job, but if the processing industry is concerned, it will generate other jobs. God forbid we have more investment in the processing industry and I insist that you, and on your question that you asked us here two days ago whether you should be dealing with the processing industry, are exclusively dealing with the processing industry, because it can make an additional value. We're not going to have intensive economic production, and then I quoted Kmezic to you, to bring you nothing good. We're already competitive here. Our agricultural producers managed without the support of the state to be primary and competitive. Let's not disturb them, let's locate more money from "Er Serbia", from "Biograda on Water" to these things, to give them, to increase first and foremost in livestock farming incentives and to have as many direct investments and new investments in the processing industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10945	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10946	Chairman, thank you. The good topic is open - the processing industry and the topic of whether it can be viewed through the number of jobs. Not just through it. It's a conservative approach, especially for reasons because the processing industry carries with it new technology and greater value. If we look at her as a car industry, if we look at her as a metal complex, we won't get anywhere. For this very reason, an amendment to the regulation relating to the promotion of the processing sector has been initiated, because this is what needs to be our intensity and our ideas. You have an analysis of the World Bank, which said it was industries in Serbia that should develop and have capacity on the market and where we have resources in Serbia's space. Maybe someone won't like it, and maybe most people will like it. It's a processing industry in agriculture, a food industry, it's a wood-processing industry, a metal complex. That's what research and analysis brought. I would like to discuss more "Mitross" next 2017, to discuss more "Budimka", to discuss more capacity from the area of Serbia that has been returned. I'll just remind you, you're not from that neighborhood, so you don't know what Mitros was. You may know from the army, you may have eaten cans, those like us all here who were in the army, but there's one other thing, it was one of the symbols, the symbols that generated Srem and the Sword. We need to develop such capacities.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10947	Time. Thank you. I'm going to interrupt this debate now that it's fully expanded. There's so much contact with the amendment, and we need to talk about the amendments. That is why there are sessions where concrete amendments are discussed. Representatives Goran Jesic, Gordana Komic, Goran Ćirić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Maja Vidinović, Natasa Vukovic, Vesna Marjanović, Veroljub Stevanović and Dusan Petrovic submitted to the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic submitted the 10th amendment together. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10948	Thank you, Chairman. Our amendment refers to a single category of outcasts. These are regresses for crop premiums, fruits, multi-annual plantings, cartilages and animals. In the principle debate, we heard the minister's argument why it's not here, but despite all that, I think this is one destimulating measure for farmers to secure their crops. So there's a big problem, especially when it comes to fruit growing or when it comes to blue areas in the West Morava Valley. I come from that neighborhood. I come from the part of Kruševec to Cačka, where the most intense agricultural production is right in the valley of Morava. We've had experience and over the past few years that we've suffered enormous damage from the effects of the flood. People happened to lose crops for two years in a row and they no longer have where to finance their production, to restart it. It is carried away and arable land that is in the valley of Morava, and therefore it is necessary to stimulate people to get some incentive to ensure their fruits and crops. Not to mention that insurance houses today avoid ensuring these crops, that they know about where the problems are, where there are no defensive embankments. These people are really in big trouble. They can't take land now where it's not there. It's simple, where they've always worked, that's where they process still the land, the seed, the fruit, but they have a problem with it. I think that at least in some part, it is necessary to predict the possibility of regressing or refunding these funds to motivate these people to ensure their production and thus have a certain income, whether from selling on the market or if there is an emergency situation from the insurance houses.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10949	The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10950	I thank you for your word. I think we talked about this two days ago and we got along, but let me just say it one more time. Of course, the insurance premiums will remain in the system, but we only have a different language concept of this measure through risk management that is more comprehensive than paying insurance premiums. For this very reason that you mentioned, it is related to the adverse consequences of different meteorological opportunities that led us to extend this risk management measure that we will look at to implement in different ways even more, not just through the payment of the insurance premium. As it was in previous years, it remains, but we will develop this system first and foremost to protect as many agricultural producers as possible, and also to protect the budgets themselves. There are financial instruments in financial markets that allow countries, local communities, regional communities to be provided but that they do not have to pay the compensation from the budget later.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10951	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10952	Dear Ministers, honourable fellow Members, we have already discussed this topic at the Committee on Agriculture. It is true that the proposed amendments and additions to the Incentives Act in the insurance domain are now defined by one broader way of the concept of risk management. Insurance is one of the methods of managing risks. This is the method by which the risk of purchase of a policy is transferred to the insurance house. Unfortunately, the percentage of areas covered by us is very low. There is a great mistrust of insurance customers in the sense of buying a crop insurance policy because there is institutional mistrust in insurance as a branch, which speaks of the need to seriously tackle the very development of the insurance market which, I would say, through all of our transition reforms and changes has at least changed, despite the entry of many foreign insurance houses. Unfortunately, the first departure was recorded this year and unfortunately the world's largest brand in the area of insurance. It's Aksa's insurance. Unfortunately, Aksa is leaving the market and this speaks of the degree of underdevelopment of our insurance markets and this will worsen the confidence of insurance customers and will not contribute to the growth of the percentages of secured areas. There's one thing you should be aware of. When the risk is in play, when weeks and months of waterfalls are high, when it is known that rivers will pour out, when it is known to be blue, insurance is impossible to buy at that time. Then it is no longer worth the prime minister and ministers touring flooded areas and to suggest the measures suggested during the last floods by the prime minister, that they will prescribe mandatory flood insurance. You can't prescribe mandatory flood insurance, because it's a cost that people can't handle, even though it costs two, three, 4,000 dinars a year. He must be aware that when he goes blue, then the insurance companies get instructions to stop selling policies. It's impossible to get insurance. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10953	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Goran Jesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10954	It's terribly important that the mandatory insurance instruments become mandatory and maybe you should think, not maybe, you should absolutely think about getting subsidies, absolutely. That's the first thing. Direct donations are not mandatory, and there must be. What do we get here? We get futures in generation of GDP for next year. We are the only economy in the region, in Southeast Europe, that is exposed to the weather and what God will give us from agriculture and that affects our GDP. We, with mandatory insurance, are nailing our GDP for next year and reducing the risks, everything that happens on the financial market. It's very important that we don't have a problem with people when it happens to them, to come strike in front of the government. There's no government that can help them, no government in the world. My suggestion is that you respect the direct payments with mandatory insurance as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10955	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10956	I agree with my predecessor. At the end of the line, banks and lease companies condition a presentation of the insurance policy before they release the money. It's not just crop insurance, we need to be aware that in our economy it's in general, and also in agriculture, it's also a very low level of insurance for construction facilities, equipment, machinery. It's simply something that needs to be increased in some way, and conditioning, incentives and not just direct giving, but any kind of incentive, by presenting the policy, because for the budget is a very large cost when paying for damage. The cost of insurance is at stake, the damages are up to 10 to 20 times higher. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10957	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Dejan Sulkic, Milan Lapcevic and Gorica Gajic together submitted to the 10th amendment. The word has the People's MP Dejan Šulkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10958	Thank you, Chairman. This member is the result of an amendment of Article 35, which is why I have not even applied for an amendment to the previous member. The minister explained that risk management, as defined in Article 36, i.e. Article 10 of the proposed amendments and additions to this law, implies and encourages insurance. That's very important. We had some experience in the Great Plan that local self-government additionally subsidized 30% on these 40%, so at one point we reached a coverage of 4,500 hectares, just as much as it was sown under wheat and subsidized barley. We've had some construction periods and the Great Plan has not been represented by God knows how much in the demands of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and not according to the Municipality of the Great Plan, and I think that's good. On the other hand, develop some new opportunities and gradually reduce subsidies, while agricultural producers do not have it as an obligation, on the one hand. On the other hand, that the insurance culture, if I may say so, does not reach that level that they recognize it themselves and calculate it as a mandatory cost. As for subsidies, someone said that you cannot be against European integration and that you can wish for a level of subsidies in the EU. I could answer the question -- can you propagate Eurointegration for tens of years with Serbian subsidies? That question doesn't stand. You talked about processing facilities, you mentioned "Mitros". Mitros wasn't the only one. The Great Plan also had a large processing industry, the plan's Meat Industry, "Healthy Food The Great Plan". It is still, Mr. Minister, under the disciplines and shackles of a bankruptcy manager, so it would be good to deal with it, because it really still has capacities in a functional sense that are good, and as far as subsidies are concerned, something can develop without subsidies. When it comes to processing facilities in the Great Plan, two slaughterhouses have been built. One is the livestock slaughterhouse, which was also issued for processing capacity in the second phase, has been export-oriented. She didn't get the grant, she didn't get the land for free, she got good logistics, she got land under market conditions, and I think she's gonna be working soon, too, and she's gonna be a new herd of cattle in the Great Plan. Once again, an appeal to be handled by a bankruptcy director in the former Great Plan meat industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10959	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) Professor Miladin Ševarlic submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10960	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is a good member. Let me ask Mr. Minister - is it better to have one "Tenis" with 60,000 hectares or is it better to have a system of agriculture that has Denmark, where land and property is limited to 300 hectares and where our cooperatives, or our cooperatives, are practically the most developed, and that practically all farmers are members of cooperatives, but they participate in the distribution of what they accomplish in the field and in the barn, but also what they accomplish in the processing centres that are their cooperative property? What did you do? You are in Sremska Mitrovica, boast "Mitrossom", a good example, 300 workers, 5,300,000 euros. You say a little before – thank you for this information, I did not know that information, although it can be obtained in the PIO Fund. Based on the monthly payments, you say it works for 186 workers. Where's the difference of 300? Did they pay back two million euros? Do they pay interest on those two million euros? The second question - did you fight during your term in Srem County or even in Srem to get 18,000 euros in subsidies from any village host in the villages? What if you gave these 5,300,000 euros to farmers and what would they do with it? To invest in production capacities and to renovate. So this is a good member, you refused. The Cooperative Act only predicted that cooperatives have the economic support of the state. Here's a chance, Mr. Minister. Give the cooperatives economic support. I specifically suggest that cooperatives, which means at least five registered agricultural holdings get at least 20% of subsidies more than one natural person.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10961	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10962	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, we who live in Srem know that Mitros is just a hat, and below is a series of cooperatives and producers... I'm asking the gymnasts to make themselves known. Below is a series of manufacturers and you should know three villages, Martins, Kuzmin and Lacarak, 200,000 pigs a year. Thanks, among other things, to Tito's youngest councilmen who had received clogged funds representing cooperatives, the cooperatives became tycoon prey in the period from 2000-2012. So these are the invoices, the cooperatives are gone and instead of reinvesting the capital in the village and around the village, he went on yachts, boats, singers, etc. Now, those who contributed and who received from such ministers 60,000 euros are now giving us a lecture on livestock farming, and they have led us to importing meat of 600 kilos of pigs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10963	Thank you. The 10th Amendment was filed by the People's MP Nenad Christmas. Does anyone want a word? (Ivan Kostic: Rules of Procedure. ) The word has a folk MP Ivan Kostic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10964	Mr. Chairman, the people have seen what the behavior of people who are constantly destroying the dignity of this National Assembly looks like. People who are members of the Devere Group are constantly called, and they do not have the right to reply. Why do you do that? Why is that allowed on your part, and you don't give people a right to replication? We guarantee that you will have your heads full for putting up with this, and you are already experiencing other MPs to avoid listening to SNS members. So put order into this congregation, give people who have authority and moral and intellectual to respond to the replica when they are personally called.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10965	You asked for Article 103, right? (Ivan Kostic: Article 104) Article 104? Article 104 is not a dignity, Article 104 is a right to replication. Here's who knows which time I'm going to read Article 104 anymore, so you can't fool us MPs, but don't try to fool Serbian citizens anymore. Therefore, Article 104, which regulates the right of the MP on the line, reads this - if the MP in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly is offended about a national MP who is not a member of the same parliamentary group, you have fulfilled that condition, stating his name and name or function, you have failed to fulfil, or misread his presentation, the MP to whom the presentation relates has the right to replication. It's not misread, it's perfectly correctly interpreted. If offensive expressions refer to a parliamentary group, or a political party whose MPs belong to the parliamentary group, the president of the parliamentary group shall have on behalf of the parliamentary group the right to reply. He didn't speak at all about the parliamentary group. The exercise of the rights set out in Articles 1 and 2 of this article shall be decided by the chairman of the National Assembly. So none of these conditions are met, except that it's not in the same parliamentary group. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10966	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advocating Article 103 of the 7th and 8. When someone abuses the breach of the Rules of Procedure, in which case the chairman may, and not have to, take away some of the time from the parliamentary group. So here's the advertised Rules of Procedure completely unnecessary. I didn't mention anyone's group, nobody's name, nobody's name, I didn't insult anyone, I didn't curse anyone, I didn't twist any women's arms, I didn't want to jump off the balcony, I didn't curse anyone alive, I didn't curse anyone's parents dead. So I'm quite politely trying to say that I'm understood by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I didn't deserve that illusion, but everyone just keeps the dignity of their constituents. The man was brought up when he continued to be brought up in the clash with the unsupervised, so that I would try to do so, and when the Rules of Procedure are advertised in this way, and when they perform physical exercises, that I rule in that way. No matter how much they contribute that the chairman must break the Rules of Procedure, I am not asking him to apply this measure right now, but life says you can't force anyone to respect you, but you can stand up to anyone who doesn't respect you, and that's my attempt right now in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10967	Mr. Risticevic, at present this provision of the Rules of Procedure is inadmissible, they spent all their time. The word has a People's Messenger, Nenad Christmas.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10968	Thank you. My amendment to Article 10 refers, when it comes to incentives to improve competitiveness, and otherwise I have given such similar amendments to other aspects of incentives, to the position of this member who says that the legal person, the entrepreneur and the physical face of the holder of the commercial family agricultural land, which is registered in the register, has the right to these incentives. My amendment refers to the fact that a legal person is limited to a legal person who is classified under the Accounting Act only as a micro-legal person, by excluding cooperatives from that and all of this remains. For what? This is what we want to directly influence the agricultural policy that you represent, for the reason that we do not give subsidies to medium and large-washed persons. Because we believe that this is wrong and that it is necessary to target the development of agriculture precisely on these individual agricultural holdings, on entrepreneurs and on micro-enterprises, especially cooperatives. Otherwise, I would agree here with my colleague Ševarlic, who spoke just now about the fact that the law does not explicitly state any kind of incentive for cooperatives. Well, you think they're legal, and that's fine, I guess you led them under. However, I think it would be right to encourage cooperatives, even some member of the law, and for that reason, I have submitted this amendment. What I would still like to explain when it comes to this amendment, is that this little farmer, who gets that incentive directly, either for throats, or for crops, whatever he buys, the material, etc., when he comes out to that market with his primary product, he's on one wind, he doesn't have a great chance of making some sustainable business out of it. So, he literally survives, and that's why it's important to force cooperatives, precisely for the reason that farmers are forced to join, that they can through these cooperatives, that they eventually achieve some kind of processing and in such a way become competitive, that they can also get goods at favourable prices, that they can negotiate with their suppliers, that they can negotiate with their customers. I think it's one important policy player when it comes to agriculture. I'm glad the minister just said he wanted to reboot agriculture. We also agree that Serbia should normally be restarted. Otherwise, the reboot is our second name, so even in this respect, the Minister of Agriculture really has great expectations and we're going to give him support to do what we're talking about and accomplishing.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10969	The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10970	To tell you the truth, I wasn't hoping for support, but any support in every business is welcome. To tell you the truth, this amendment you submitted, the darkness we wanted, since it makes sense, to support it, however, is a legal-technical flaw. It's not a legal face. It's a real face. Look at the amendment. That's why we couldn't accept it, and absolutely cooperatives in all of ours, i.e. When you rank the cooperative, you'll absolutely have a priority. On the other hand, I want to say that larger funds are allowed to co-finance loans by the Ministry of Agriculture for Cooperatives, they have higher capacity compared to others, so on the other hand I want to tell you that we have a special relationship with this matter. (Nenad Christmas: Replica.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10971	You can't do the replica, just by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10972	I now understand that you fully support this amendment. So this is the only mistake you've ever had in your life? If that is all there is to it, I ask you again to state that you support that only micro-legal persons, entrepreneurs and natural persons registered as agricultural holdings have the right to incentives. If you agree with me on this, I ask you to confirm it. I hope you understand that it's a literal mistake, and it's not a matter of nature. So if that's okay with you, I beg you, confirm to everyone that everyone hears it. Then we'll really believe that you really want to support cooperatives and small farmers. Here, right on the spot you can do that, if that's the only problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10973	You have no right, Mr. Minister, on your word. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10974	Dear Minister, I thank you for supporting the amendment we have proposed and I apologize for swallowing this amendment in one letter. But if you support the program we have proposed with that amendment, don't make one swallowed letter make millions go the wrong way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10975	The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Mr Goran Cabradi, Marinika Tepic, Nada Lazic and Olena Papuga. The People's Messenger, Nada Lazic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10976	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, this member refers to incentives to preserve and improve the environment and natural resources. I would especially like to welcome that this article is so extended, that this area is still being taken into account when it comes to rural development and is added to the law. But there's something missing. In fact, only some segments are included in the incentives to support programmes related to the conservation and improvement of the environment and natural resources, so I'm going to point out which ones are concerned. For the sustainable use of agricultural land, for the sustainable use of forest resources, organic production, conservation of plant and animal genetic resources, conservation of agricultural and other areas of high natural value, and what is most important, to which we added the amendment, is to support agri-ecological measures. We added more points after this point 6, i.e. we added as an extension, namely, to give incentives and to build facilities for the disposal of permanent manure and the supply of equipment for the distribution of stables. Today, we have had the opportunity to hear about the problems of land poverty, and on the other hand, because of the irregular handling of the barn, we have problems with water pollution, environmental pollution in villages and the general deterioration of life in villages. That's why we added the construction of a biogas system from the stables, it's an absolute trend in all developed countries to use the barn for these purposes, and we added support to education programmes and the application of good agricultural practice in the use of stables. For those who don't know, in Serbia somewhere in 2005-2009 was the DREPR programme, as it was the abbreviations at the time, the goal was to protect the Danube plum from farm and barn pollution, i.e. from slaughterhouses and then some hundreds of farms received funds of about 70% of the value for habitat-gathering tanks, for field-expanding equipment. It was part of this project and the education of farmers, and I think it's an excellent project that one of the few people brought to an end and where the farmers got the funds, that is, that equipment. I think that a practice that then proved to be extremely good and positive would be a good motive to apply to us here, or to continue to apply it. Unfortunately, after 2009, both the Environment Fund and the Agricultural Fund did not send funds for these purposes, unfortunately, the project ended as a project and that is why we have proposed this amendment. Also on the board, you replied that it would be planned, i.e. financing, in investment. It is said in article 36 that these are investments in the physical property of agricultural land. I hope so, and I want to believe you that really part of the incentive funds will be allocated for these purposes, even though the member here is not given in detail. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10977	The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10978	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll just take a minute. Yes, it will be contained within the scale of investments in the physical assets of agricultural holdings and will be financed at a higher percentage, above all that is non-profitable business, and it is necessary for all of those reasons mentioned today during the debate. As far as this point 9 is concerned, it is also contained in support of knowledge development, so it has absolutely no problems. All of your proposals have already been integrated into our measures that we have proposed through amendments and additions to the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10979	Anyone else want a word? The word is Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10980	The Serbian Radical Party wants to take part in the improvement of the results of these amendments and the addition of the law by pointing to representatives of the government a problem which is more and more increasingly present, and where it cannot, with these measures, only subsidies to remove the problem. Namely, it's about the next one. Those persons who process the land they rent periodically for a few years, they invest huge funds to be able to earn a sufficient amount of culture where they could eventually earn their profits. For this reason, because of the short time on which the land is rented, they are somehow directed to use chemical resources, use artificial fertilisers, so that they can increase the yield. I can't count on permanent manure for some longer-term period because they won't have the desired effect and are forced to use those resources. On the other hand, because of their profits, they do so, but the land that remains, the quality of the land is reduced, and the consequences of the use of artificial fertilisers remain, fertile land is converted into calcium carbonate. Later it doesn't use that much and it can't be used, it's some secret consequences. So our suggestion is to think about making it possible to rent and use this land for a longer period of time, so that people can apply these measures to subsidize agritechnical measures and that they can participate in the implementation of these measures. Since I still have time as an authorised representative, all this talk about these EU pre-accession funds reminds me of a true story that was happening on the premises of Bulgaria, when Bulgaria was in a situation like Serbia today, if it can be compared at all. So, when she ran for EU member, Bulgaria, among other things, was known for agricultural production and mostly for rose production. When experts from the EU claimed that the technology used by Bulgarians was not good, Bulgaria was, by the way, among the world's leading countries, especially when it comes to extracts derived from flowers and liquid oil produced from rose flowers, then European experts advised them that it would be best to produce raw materials, and that raw materials are processed in Europe, claiming that with such production of roses they are very poor, technologically lagging behind, and when the West takes away technology, when they are left with only a raw base, they will also be rich and then they will be advanced. That story always repeats itself. It seems that nothing is different or fate for us in Serbia, when the West, or the EU, advises us how and how to use their technology, while taking from us raw materials and cheap labour, claiming that we are technologically lagging behind, that we are not agriculturalally developed and that the only chance we are to be that raw material base from which the raw materials will draw the West. We Serbian radicals oppose it. We are for a more even treatment when it comes to investing in agriculture. Relations must be clearly defined. When it comes to subsidisation, it must be taken into account that the state as Serbia is cannot endure indefinitely paying off subsidies, while the effects of these subsidies are not exactly what we want them to be. It must be counted on the fact that, within a short period of time, one intervention is expected from the same EU to start abolishing subsidies in agriculture because their general position is, when it comes to budgetary resources and the availability of budgetary resources, to abolish subsidies in all segments, so we must count on it to be in agriculture as well. We're against this kind of distribution of subsidies, for a number of reasons. One reason is that we think that this is how we skate into technological addiction. There's something that's good, to monitor this technological progress, but there's something that's very, very bad, when you come into that kind of addiction, then you're having a hard time getting rid of it, for the simple reason that this complete equipment and the technology that's being installed must always be restored, serviced, and there's mostly the interest of those who produce the equipment. The interest of those who would get cheaper goods, or cheaper raw materials has never changed, will always insist that we have to take funds from them, those funds to use in the way they recommend. We think, however, that we need to find a programme as soon as possible, namely that the government has one project – a quick recovery of the Serbian economy. Do not forget and lose sight that we are slowly losing the Russian market because new moments appear on the Russian market, when Russia itself provides a more or less sufficient amount of food, so that this market is getting more and more out of hand. When it comes to tow heroes and chances about it, and there's a question of the moment when that possibility will be reduced. It will never definitely be abolished, but in any case it will be reduced because other countries have an interest in doing this work, in dealing with meat exports, so we have to count on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10981	Thank you. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević, Gorica Gajic and Dejan Šulk1ic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10982	In Article 11, which speaks of incentives to preserve and improve the environment of natural resources, we added in the final view that these funds can also be applied by legal persons registered in accordance with the law governing associations as well as local self-government and local community units. The amendment was rejected on the grounds that the proposed amendments to the law are indicated that funds can be applied by legal persons without defining the forms of legal entity organisation. I don't think the niche bothers us to put this wider and allow local communities and associations of farmers, cooperatives to use these funds, especially when we have a situation in our villages, thinking about environmentalism. There's so much pollution, so many plastic bottles, so much and everything. Why not allow associations of farmers, cooperatives, and local communities to apply for these funds? I guess our goal is that the bigger the circle of potential users can get into a situation where they think about cleaning villages to bring environmental conditions to areas where they intensively deal with agriculture to be such an appropriate and healthy environment and time in which we live. It is said that, behold, it cannot be because it is not specified which type of legal person, and that would be fine if it were not analogous to that in Article 13 which speaks of income diversification incentives indicated that legal entities, entrepreneurs, natural persons, as well as legal persons registered in accordance with the law governing associations can compete for those assets. If Article 13 mentions this, why not point out in Article 11? The analogy is exactly the same. I ask you, I think it's your turn to adopt a perfectly normal amendment that comes from an opposition that can only improve this legal matter, and not make it worse.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10983	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 11, the People's MP, Nenad Christmas, submitted to the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10984	Here, the minister is smiling, probably planning to answer me again now that because of that technical error he cannot accept the amendment. So, as for incentives to preserve and improve the environment and natural resources, our idea with this amendment was also that when it comes to legal persons, the incentive is limited exclusively to legal persons that are classified as micro-legal persons, and that excludes cooperatives that can be medium and large legal persons. I'd like to ask the minister again, he didn't just answer me, because the chairman didn't give him the opportunity to answer, to tell me, does he agree that we can make such an amendment that only micro-legal persons other than cooperatives get a boost. So, is it just a literal mistake or is it a agricultural policy? Can you plead?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10985	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10986	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's a moment. Mr. Chairman, you owe me a serious time to wait for these to come out. Apparently, they need training, some people's cheeks are visible from behind. I realized why the government couldn't accept this amendment because it was technically inconclusive, and I wanted us to avoid just multiple funding in organic production. So it was a motive, and however I formulated this amendment, I couldn't technically dress it up in a way that would be accepted. Organic production is very important not only for farmers, it is important for processing, it is also important for trade. It is still in Serbia in a way that it is in the water, but given that many colleagues pointed out that agricultural possessions are very small... Here again, I don't really know what to do with these hung tomatoes here that bother me, but my God, I guess the chairman will take care of it. So organic production can be a perspective for new employment in Serbia. It can be a perspective for small holdings since our properties are similar to Italy, Greece, Portugal, etc. Even in Europe, the possessions are not very large, but we have to relatively possess ourselves to apply a agricultural policy where there will be a chance for all and for small and large agricultural producers, and therefore organic production was a chance for these small possessions of several hectares, and I think if we were to export what Radulović del Bo company exports, not organic food, then we would not export anything, then it would be double nothing, double empty, double naked, and I appreciate that for technical reasons the government could not accept this amendment. I believe our organic food producers will have a perspective in Serbia. Thank you. (Saša Radulovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10987	Based on what replica? (Saša Radulović, from town: Well, you're kidding. ) Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a colleague of Radulovic was not in the National Assembly all day, entered ten seconds ago and asked for a word. (Saša Radulovic: You must be kidding. You really don't know why? Do you understand why it's a replica? We continue to work. You can't provoke me, Mr. Radulovic. (Saša Radulovic, from the post: By amendment. And by amendment, will you? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10988	So, a series of insults, no replicas, that's your one archaic for everyone. You're obviously afraid to talk. Let us return to the amendment, that is, the essence of what is proposed. In the proposal for an incentive on agriculture, we never have, and this is not only now with your ministry, but in all previous ministries, an analysis of every year where the money went. An analysis of the size, let's say, of legal entities by land, that we know how much land they get, how much money they get from different incentives. That's what it takes, you'll agree, so that we can then assess whether politics is working well, whether the government's policy is working well, so that when we discuss the next time we discuss amendments to the law to say whether something is good or not. Since we don't have that analysis, then we don't know, say, people think, and we also think that most of the money is going to be big, and that only a small part of the money is going to be small. And we think we need to encourage small agricultural holdings. And that first across the country, that is, the country should be allowed to process smaller holdings, let's say with the size of about 20 hectares that state countries should be given to smaller ones and that they should then be joined into cooperatives and that incentives should go through cooperatives. In these capital investments of the state and help to build cooperatives, since I'm an individual agricultural producer, I can't survive, but through cooperative I can. There are countries that have shown us how to make such a single policy. Well, if we have 20, 30, 50 of those smaller cooperatives, then that cooperative is actually big. We advocate such a agricultural policy that gives land to domestic agricultural holdings, restricts property, talks about a state country when the country is given. Of course, what a privateer gets himself can get himself and then team up with a cooperative and an incentive that goes beyond that. And then later, of course every year that we have a full analysis of where the money went, who got what. Well, if we hadn't happened to have companies like Mitros, for example, bought for 800,000 euros, get 5.5m euros in incentives per employee. So it just doesn't work that way, then it still needs to get some other incentives, some other channels. That's really bad. So the main question and the essence of this amendment, although you can hang on to one letter, but it's not a serious discussion, is where the money goes, by the incentives, how much money will go, how much legal persons, how much of it goes to individual agricultural land, what is the property that goes next to them, how many cattle have, etc. So we could look at whether it's true that the government, through these incentives, encourages individual agricultural holdings, or actually this is another way of touching money to various "Tenis", "Mitrossima", and other foreign corporations that do business with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10989	I'm a little surprised by my colleague, Radulovic, since you discussed the amendment of MP Marijan Risticevic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10990	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, 106, 107, forbidden distractions that are permanent. The dignity of the National Assembly has been violated. Speaking of "Mitros", the former economy minister, has clearly condemned every subsidy given to investors. I have here on 12.9.2013, I will not mention the name of this minister, who was elected in the reconstruction of the Government of Ivica Dacic, was the minister of business, who says - we do not lift subsidies for investors. So when his last part of the body is in the chair, then we don't lift subsidies and he literally says that this measure exists in other countries and that there must be something that will make it clear that investors will define themselves for Serbia. Now, when I repeat it, general escape. So if my last part of the body is in the chair, or his, then I can subsidize, if not then I can't subsidize, then it's a waste of money, then it's a steaming machine, then he would have put the whole of Serbia into bankruptcy. That is not the case, and that is why, Mr. Chairman, I believe that the dignity of the National Assembly has been violated. I'm not asking you to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10991	Thank you. The word is made by the National MP Snježana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Snow White Bogosavljevic Boskovic: Thank you. I mean, it's not true that we don't know where the money from the agricultural budget is going. If we don't know, I want to tell those who don't know. The Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection regulated the visibility of the spending of these funds by issuing a Green Paper each year showing results in agriculture in the previous year, and the Green Paper also contained funds from the agrarian budget as spent in the previous year. This is extremely important, because based on this data for the following year in January, following the adoption of the agrarian budget, incentives are being established, but only in accordance with the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development, which we are talking about today. So, please, we have these green books published on the Ministry of Agriculture site, you can clearly see where every dinar from the Agricultural Budget is going. When you say the country, I remind you to give land to farmers for hire, I remind you that according to the list of conditions in Serbia's agriculture in 2012 and according to our analysis when we were working on amending the Law on Agricultural Land, unfortunately in Serbia we have almost 400,000 ha of unprocessed agricultural land. So it's not a problem in the land, it's land, but our problem is to encourage as much land as possible to be processed. Thank you. Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10993	I thank the chairman. I also think that it is necessary to support organic production, especially if we know that we have a large number of depreciated parcels, that in central Serbia there is slightly more than 2 ha, according to the household average of farmland and one of the ways we can use that country is certainly more invested and that organic production is encouraged. That makes it a good intention and changes to the members of the law, but good intentions and amendments, because I have the same amendment to make more out of the budget, and more strongly, support organic production. Also, I must say that I would like to commend, although I am an MP for the opposition, your initiative and your desire for these laws to try to at least make a small move in agriculture. I also thank you for what you for the first time since 2000, in the incentives and people involved in the distribution, or the production of fruit seedlings and vines, and I hope that you will further develop this by sublegal acts, and that these measures will show them that they too are competitive with producers from other countries. I also hope that from this law that isn't a major shift, and it won't dawn on farmers after the adoption of this law, it's a long-term process, but it's important that we run it, that it will follow a series of sublegal acts that will paint what we expect of you. I've got another problem here. We speak here today in the hall where the two agriculture ministers are, you are today as the new minister, Mrs Bogosavljevic, as someone who was before, there is still a lack of Knezevic and more Glamocic is missing. Never in recent history have farmers been given more false promises than in the past four or five years. Please stop that practice. I believe you have good intentions, but I ask you to explain to the Prime Minister, first of all, that agriculture is a branch of the economy that, with the smallest investment, gives the shortest effect. To explain to him that in agriculture today, around two million people are working on 630,000 agricultural holdings, working somewhere around two million people, 480,000 of them reported to be agricultural social and health insurance. The others didn't because they didn't have the means to do it. The idea of all of us should be to hire them through agricultural holdings, give them a chance to work on their holdings, pay for their contributions and health insurance, and pension insurance, and thus take advantage of the potentials we have. Serbia has potentials measured by billions of euros, export potentials in fruit and vegetables production. I agree with you that we should turn to intensive production, we should turn to vegetables, we should turn to fruit growing. As far as vegetables are concerned, you said for a moment that income is 10,000 euros per ha. I'll agree with you there, but on the other hand the costs are far, far higher. We have very large expenditures for oil, and for fertilizer, and for all other repromaterials, and producers can hardly survive with 10,000 euros, those who do so on small parcels for large costs, and ultimately because of the great cost of living. Therefore, I can support your good intentions, I can support the measures you have announced, we cannot see them here in law. Also, I expect these regulations to show what your plan will be for the next 2017 and 2018, as long as you're in the minister's seat, but I ask you not to be another one in a series of nice stories, nice fairy tales, where we'll tell farmers to have better days waiting for them, and that they'll still barely make ends meet, that the country will continue to work on tractors that are 30 and 40 years old, that they'll barely raise money to start new production and that's something we really need to talk about. That's why I also said in the principle debate that the SDS parliamentary group -The People's Movement of Serbia will also support the Agricultural and Rural Development Act, because we think it is necessary to finally cancel this IPARD process and help our farmers reach these funds, as well as that in this Encouragement Act, this is just some small, I can say, cosmetic change, but important. Important for young people who want to deal with agriculture, why can't we do something that Slovenians do with 45,000 euros help every young farmer who wants to work in agriculture, work there. I think there's room for everything, come on, don't just talk about it, some have done it before, they haven't been good, like this or like that. Let's just go ahead once, see these results. Otherwise, nothing will be seen except for all the unfulfilled promises your predecessors and all 40 ministers who have changed in the governments of various Alexander Vukic. Let's see if this is all going to be another fairy tale, or really citizens can expect something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10994	Right on the replica National MP Snježana Bogosavljević Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10995	Dear People's MPs, today I also spoke to you in principle and addressed the citizens, our farmers as MPs of the SPS, above all, but also as professor of the Faculty of Agriculture behind whom 30 years of employment and experience are behind. Until recently, I thought that in Serbia everyone understood sports, football and politics, and somehow it seems to me that we have a lot of people who understand each other well in agriculture. I didn't want to tell people that we did it. I don't know how much I don't know. We did what we could and what we could see for a given time. Some results will be seen in the coming years, but don't doubt that we've done everything we can to help agriculture. I don't get into what was before, who was guilty and guilty, but it's certain that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has, as far as I know, given the maximum of my time to help agriculture, agriculture can't be helped on short notice. Agriculture takes time to achieve results. I pointed out in the previous session that all the positive trends and I, as an expert in this area, can say for myself that I am a great optimist. I'm not optimistic when it comes to time, when we'll be able to achieve the goals we set ourselves. I know it can't go fast, but I'm sure agriculture will survive and will have positive results in the coming years.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10996	The word has been made by MP Sasa Radulovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10997	Thank you. Again, the focus must be small agricultural holdings and to strengthen that part of individual production. I have no doubt that the former SPS minister had good intentions, but the results are gone. So it's one disastrous tenis law that should give up to 30% of the land in every municipality in Serbia, the state, that can be given to foreign corporations. It's one disastrous law. So when you talk about who you support, you need to be honest and tell who you're meant to support. As for the "green book", it has nothing on user analysis, meaning for users. What should be done is that on one side you have agricultural holdings, so you can divide them into categories by the size of the land, then by works, and then you can see how much incentive has gone to, and then we can get legal names for how much money they got. None of this is there and it's not just with you. For years, it has been working the same way in Serbia. So it's disastrous not to know what your goal is in economic policy, or who you're throwing at in this case with incentives, who you want to strengthen. There are no cooperatives in Serbia. If nothing is done to form cooperatives, you can't say that individual agricultural holdings are encouraged, because it's simply not true. So we have two things to share. It is one thing to run social policy, and it should be run by the Ministry of Labour and Employment, means social policy, and agricultural policy should be addressed to young, strong agricultural land that can achieve results. Many of them need land. The state has land, especially in Vojvodina, and it can give the land to these landowners to strengthen. There are a lot of people who would go back to the country if the state did something like that. Instead, we pour a lot of money. These withdrawal subsidies, we don't know how many of our landowners go and how many foreign corporations are going to get subsidies in some other way anyway. Practically what we have is that we become a land of cheap labour that large corporations come into that that don't invest practically anything, get all the money from the budget and then boast about some successes. There's no success here. Citizens know this, especially citizens who do agriculture, who watch these transmissions, who watch and listen to what we say and know that it simply doesn't have a basis in reality. Incentives do not go where they should go, when we look at this “green book ” and what it says is clear that you do not want to, or that you do not want that analysis to be in those books. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10998	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u10999	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, as the MP who most often advertises the violation of the Rules of Procedure and seeks some of his rights, Articles 106 and 107, the speaker did not just speak about the amendment. So, the amendment talks about organic production. I didn't hear the word "organic" from the gentleman who was currently out. I think the Rules of Procedure has been broken for a simple reason because he's been saying everything and everything. He was talking about how 30% of the country I don't know presents, etc. We make 1,500 euros per hectare in warfare. If we're dealing with cattle, that's 3,000, and if we do that, that's 6 grand per hectare. That's what he should have said, but he didn't say, but he hurt the dignity of the National Assembly and talked about something that wasn't in the amendment that I suggested. If he's against it, and it seems he is, you can't let me get distracted by an MP who wakes up at five o'clock, picks up hams here and comes to interfere with another MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11000	Thank you. Mr. Chevarlich, according to the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11001	According to the Rules of Procedure, yes. (President: here you go. ) Member of 107th Infringement of the Dignity of the Assembly. We just heard a statement from a colleague, Boskovic, that everything that was possible was done. My colleague Boskovic, you have published a "green book". On the third side of this "green book" says that subsidies are... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11002	The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11003	By amendment, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, the amendment itself is practically based on the financing of projects from IPARD funds. When it comes to organic production, all those who will compete with IPARD funds are cost-refunding, i.e. a 100% boost from the EU. Therefore, if the EU has an interest in funding such projects, the proposer has submitted such an amendment for a reason. When we talk about incentives, in general, in the processing industry, we should remind ourselves, and, Mr. Minister, you should keep talking about it, that until 2012, privatisation of agricultural institutes and cooperatives was done in the way it was done. There are simply no longer any agricultural cooperatives that work, but there is property and there is a signed SAA that says that from 2017 on, there will be free trade in agricultural land. So every stranger here in Serbia will be able to come and buy land as dictated by the market. Serbia has passed two laws last year to protect domestic farmers in a certain way. One refers to agricultural land, and the other refers to the Cooperatives Act. Therefore, the Cooperatives Act has defined and improved ways in which agricultural cooperatives are formed, but there are also defined ways in which they, which have led to the bankruptcy of certain agricultural institutes and cooperatives, will be able to work in the future in the way that the state will be able to give them certain incentives. That's one thing. Secondly, 100,000 acres by 2012, those who ruled are given in the hands of the four largest agricultural tycoon, and they are now giving us lessons about how certain incentives should be done in agriculture. Therefore, what was given by this bill gives full opportunity to young agricultural producers to deal with agriculture and gives full opportunity for the processing industry to start exactly the people who are citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because only they can be the promoters of agriculture. I think that such amendments should be considered, as Mr Risticevic gave, but on the other hand, it should always be said that those who were until 2012 and were privatising in the area of agriculture and engaged in certain illegal activities by giving loans from the tycoon Development Fund, who simply gave mortgages to the same agricultural state land, have no right to hold moral sermons here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11004	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Radoslav Milojcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11005	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, I am advocating Article 108, and I ask you to behave in accordance with your function now in office, which is the function of Vice-President of the National Assembly and at the moment of the Chairman, and not to look non-stop when speaking from any opposition to Mr. Martinovic and waiting for his permission or for him to shake your hand and say that you take away the previous speaker's word. If that is the goal, for Martinovic to tell you what you're doing here, we've come a long way, as maintenance, when such cartoons need to tell you what you're going to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11006	Did you say that to a colleague of Martinovic that it was a cartoon? (Radoslav Milojic: No. Can I explain what I said? You can't explain it anymore. (Radoslav Milojic): Don't interpret what I said. First, you will not determine where I will go and which direction I will look. Just so you know, I'm a man of integrity and, therefore, no one can force me to do something deep down. As for Mr. Ševarlic, whom I took away the word, he not only asked for the advertising of the Rules of Procedure, was given the right to speak, mentioned a member and turned directly to his colleague Boskovic and called him by his name and last name. Is that what happened? You didn't hear? You hear selectively? The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11007	Thank you. We stopped at organic production and I think it's very important in a few words to comment on this thing. In the proposed system, organic production is 40% more funded than in the commercial way of organic production, and I want to highlight a few things. I've been here all day, which is my job, talking to the MPs and I'm very sorry that some have a few minutes to talk about agriculture. I'm willing to talk for days and nights about this and I don't find it difficult, but I want to say for the public that we need to talk about organic agricultural production, even though some people want to talk about everything and everything. From 2012 to 2015, the size of the agricultural land under organic production increased by 2.5 times. It is currently about 15,300 hectares under organic agricultural production and is therefore important and therefore we will further stimulate it. The value of exports is close to 20m euros from organic production, the largest part of the fruit. It is therefore important to further encourage organic agricultural production. I remind you that the value of organic production exports was only 3.7m euros in 2012. What do I mean? I want to say how important this is, I want to say that the market on which we place mainly the EU or countries in Scandinavia, which are not part of the EU. These are high-quality markets. Markets, markets and markets should define what we produce.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11008	Thank you. National MP Radoslav Milojic submitted to the 12th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The peoples of Goran Jesic, Gordana Komić, Goran Ćirić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Božović, Maja Vidinović, Natasa Vučković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic and Veroljub Stevanović submitted together to the 12th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Goran Jesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11009	Thank you. Of course, organic production is very important. We have no more than 18 tons of daily milk, for example, from organic production and it comes from only one farm. That doesn't satisfy the domestic market. We can't talk about exports, let alone milk processing. I mean cheese and some long-term products. That's where we need to isolate the funds. We have potential on the Cave, we have huge potential in those parts of Serbia that we claim to be underpopulated, primarily in livestock farming and above all in fruit growing, which you mentioned. Unfortunately, our fruit production has been eliminated from Grocka, Smederava, etc. And she moved, thanks to the incentive measures in the AP Vojvodina, which is industrial production and we don't need to look where we're supposed to make top incomes and offer to make organic production there. There's a huge potential. Therefore, we have asked to increase this volume of funds and I keep coming back to increase the volume of funds, because there is this volume of funds in the budget, and we are asking that these money be recovered from projects that we absolutely disagree on, "Belgrade on Water", "Er Serbia", etc., and move here and make that effect. There are huge potentials in fruit, in dried fruit. You can buy the batules in the South, in the Sayala, at the Rasha stand for organic products, but we must, above all, also do education. The problem is to teach people how to deal with it. There is huge potential on the Cave for organic production of meat and milk. You can easily meet all the conditions necessary. That's why you don't need the money. If they're going to go to Mitrovica, they shouldn't go to tennis. For Mitros, I agree, for tennis, and I don't agree to find that money where they need to make extra value and where we can create potential from the births that will generate revenue in the amount, and above all meet the needs of the domestic market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11010	Thank you. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11011	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, first one piece of information. Since the Minister of Agriculture just said that we have an increase in organic production, we have, Mr. Minister, a conversion from conventional organic agriculture to the largest organic farm in Serbia "Ekoagri" in the White Church, which has 2,300 hectares in one complex. This is one result, and the other is that we have organic plant and organic livestock, that is, the production of milk on “Global AIDS. ” These are two farms that draw over 60% of the total value of organic farming. If it wasn't for those two farms, ask yourself where you'd be. In a few years, we could include only 200,000 hectares of 424 thousand hectares standing in Serbia unprocessed, we get a yearly, that's the reckoning I've been making with professor. Branko Lazic, Professor Emeritus, who specializes in organic agriculture, from 270m euros to 100,000 hectares of organic agriculture and from the organic beekeeping I worked with the SPOS president, for 100,000 hectares of 111m euros and that is 380m euros with 200,000 hectares, without any import raw materials, and would employ about 200,000 workers and beekeepers. Let us invest 175 million, plus these 53m euros in these two actions and achieve the effects far greater than we would have achieved by giving it to foreign investors. (President: Bring the end, colleague. ) So, the largest foreign investor is the Republic of Serbia's budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11012	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11013	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the viewers can see we're talking one thing and the other we're working... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11014	You can't get a word in. My colleague Arsic made a mistake. He gave you his word on the amendment, and you don't have time to discuss it. Wait a second. I'm sorry, but you can still talk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11015	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we should have seen the difference between what we do in practice and what we're talking about in Parliament. In practice, we take 12.5m euros in a project intended for livestock production on the Old Mountain, transfer it to tow consultants, be a tow consultant, take the money, and instead of having 120,000 sheep on the Old Mountain, and each year give 200 thousand underpriced, that we have a new number of sheep, every year 200 thousand, we instead of sheep have consultants full of money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11016	The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Šulkic, Milan Lapčević and Gorica Gajic. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11017	With this amendment, we wanted organic production to be stimulated, by sharing cumulatively both incentives and fuel regressions, and for fertilisers, and for seeds, not individual ones. Therefore, since the original bill states that incentives cover payments for plant production and regresses for fuel, or fertilisers, or seeds, or so on, or. In an explanation for the refusal of amendments, it has been said that the bill's amendment is broader and that practically the legislator of this law does not narrow the scope of incentives, but rather gives the possibility to choose to use incentives in the field of organic production. If it gives the option of choice, therefore, whether for fuel, whether for seeds or for fertilizer, then of course, that it is narrowed down and that it can neither Sematic nor Language this explanation is correct. If we let it be cumulative for both fuel and for seeds, and for fertilizer, then, of course, it's broader and more favourable for the manufacturer, than if it's said to be either one or the other. I think if we don't have the means to increase the incentives to 100% for organic production or the nominal amount of more resources, then we can at least give cumulatively both for fertilizers, and for seeds, and for fuel, to encourage that organic production that we swear to, and which, as we speak, is a great export opportunity.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11018	The 12th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Kostic, Bosko Obradović, Marija Janjusevic, Dragan Vesović, Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11019	Dear Ministers, if organic production is extremely well and sufficiently represented in the strategy of agricultural policy, as one important branch of our agriculture, and the results say that the growth of organic production in Serbia has not produced satisfactory results in the past few years, we believe that other ways of stimulating organic production in our country are needed. That's why we thought these incentives were 40% insufficient, that they should be bigger. Of course, there's a reason for you to deny it and say it's not in line with the budget. In the EU, however, organic product prices are three times higher than in commercial production. So I would just like to say one more thing, that this measure will not give sufficient results and the state should be interested, how tax incentives allow agricultural producers, which deal with organic production, to improve the work of agricultural land based on these measures, based on media support. The way I stimulate organic production through subsidisation is not enough. That is why we believe that the Ministry of Agriculture should be interested in tax relief, in terms of media support, which we will talk about in the next amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11020	Thank you. On Article 12 of the amendment, the People's MP, Nenad Christmas, submitted to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11021	Thank you. We welcome the government's decision to stimulate organic production both plant and livestock. That's okay. What we're looking for, as well as all the previous visions of our amendment, to exclude legal persons that are classified as large and medium, by being cooperatives. It means that they remain cooperatives, whether they are classified, if the legal person remains a micro-legal person, to remain entrepreneurs and bearers of commercial agricultural land, if natural persons. The idea of our amendment is that this distribution of these subsidies goes to small producers. It's the only way they can survive, the only way to bring them together through cooperatives. So they can make a sustainable business out of agriculture, because agriculture is not a social policy and thus prevent large producers from getting subsidies that will make it even bigger and dominate the market. I expect you to answer me whether you agree that this policy is fine and that the amendment rejects only technical reasons, which I believe can be solved, because otherwise, when spelling mistakes or others are resolved, it cleanses them and becomes valid afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11022	Thank you. Members Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted the 13th amendment together. Does anyone want a word? The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Goran Cabradi, Marinika Tepic, Nada Lazic and Olena Papuga. The word is a folk letter from Nada Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11023	The Honorable Chairman, Honorable Minister, this amendment applies to Article 39, in fact, is the addition of Article 39. It is about incentives to diversify income and improve the quality of life in rural areas. In this article we intervened in terms of incentives, grants for tourist purposes, i.e. in terms of the development of rural tourism, so at point 1) where we talked about investments, i.e. support for investments to improve and develop rural infrastructure, we added tourism infrastructure. Then at the point) 2. where we talk about improving economic activities in the country, we added incentives to develop tourism through support for non-agricultural activities. And we added that the right to use incentives from these points, not to read the whole point of view, those entered in the register, as well as legal persons registered in accordance with the law governing associations, we added rural tourist households that are categorized under the Tourism Act. We believe that the development of rural tourism must be better organised, as tourism has been a constant growth activity in both the number of tourists and the financial results, it is important to find a special place for rural tourism, or what they call rural tourism. In fact, the harmonisation of the provisions of the Tourism Act that we believe is necessary, because it is of great importance, because that rural tourist household would receive a valid economic framework and business control, as the number of registered rural tourist households has been falling lately, and on the other hand, the registry would have to monitor these households and their business, as an additional activity of natural persons requiring the engagement of intermediaries. In fact, they now have a problem with development, i.e. with the right play on the market, and therefore we believe that there is a need to invest more systematically in this area, in particular they can serve an example of Hungary where those who develop rural tourism in a special association are organised, they have their own rules of conduct, they have their propaganda material, etc. So in one completely controlled and transparent way they're organized and then there wouldn't be a presence to say gray zones. That's why we think this intervention of ours is very useful in this amendment. you have stated in response to the refusal of our amendment that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the development of tourism or tourism infrastructure is covered by point 2) of the same article, the improvement of economic activities, etc. One general attitude, through support for non-agricultural activities. Specific activities related to rural tourist households are prescribed by a sublegal act adopted under this law. We hope that it will be in a sublegal act in a much better way, as developed countries do or do not have to be developed, but simply be countries like countries in our environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11024	Thank you. The word has Minister Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11025	Dear Chairman, our idea is to support the tourism of agricultural landowners and through this explanation of the amendment you could see that these activities that you were talking about were already contained in one of the measures, and it is absolutely our idea to encourage these activities. This will be incorporated through the sublegal act and will be made available to agricultural owners.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11026	The 13th Amendment was submitted by Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11027	Thank you, Your Honor. Everyone's talking about giving priority to young people, and nobody's talking about giving young and educated people, because this is the 21st century, a century of economics and knowledge. Poverty is the first indicator of the lack of knowledge of the agricultural economy. So we have 5,513 highly educated agricultural experts and veterinarians who are unemployed, including 26 doctors of science, 416 magistrates, masters and specialists. Mr. Minister, their education cost over 1.2 billion euros. It's dead capital if it's not used. On the other hand, we have 270 advisors on 628,000 family agricultural holdings. That is why we are the last in this part of Europe and in Europe at all. Every young agronomist and veterinarian we help with 28,500, how much it turned out to be for these 186 employees in Mitros, he will practically be a free consultant for his entire neighborhood and will have his own land that will practically be viewed, good for all neighbours. Why don't we do it like that? You want them to go abroad? We go to school and they go abroad? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11028	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11029	The President-in-Office, honourable MPs, we discussed in principle the need to reform the advisory service and the need for targeted advisers depending on the territory of the area in which a certain agricultural activity is carried out. I don't think you should speak this way, for one simple reason, by comparing employment in companies dealing with the processing industry, of course we work together with the Ministry of Education in ways that we can try as many of these people as possible to integrate into the system both through support for secondary agricultural schools and also through advisory services. I don't think all these banalizations are leading to anything. We need processing, we need experts. We need each other. Don't refer to each other, cross. I just don't know what to say to you on this, it's not just those who are in the process just those faces. I was just talking about it, I think it would be good to hear from you, where are those producers that are connected to the processors, those 780 at this point, and who knows how much with the increase in production? Here, from next week we've got a new shift that's being introduced into that production plant, where the new 60 people are getting a job. Don't say that, please, at least you don't. Miladin Ševarlic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11030	The word has the People's MP Goran Jesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11031	Let's get back to the subject, please. Why do we even give incentives? (Miladin Ševarlic: Isn't the topic of employment? No, Professor, I want to support you. Why are subsidies that exist only in the EU and exist in Serbia and do not exist in America, but there is a "farmer balance" which is a kind of subsidy, but is not this type of subsidy? We have three EU subsidy lines. We have heard here several times, almost 50% of the EU's budget returns to three-line incentives, which is: sustainable agriculture, rural development and ecosystems. We need the first component and the second component. The English are pulling the third component. The biggest beneficiary of European funds for English agriculture is the Royal Bird Observation Association, because they protect the environment and farms and trees, etc., have crossed this sustainability phase of agriculture. Every piece of food, every kilogram, every 100 grams we produce in Europe is dramatically cheaper than any of the Earth's globes in Europe on our table. That's why four years in Doha lasted negotiations between the VTOs, and that's why we protected the market with security systems, so we don't get things that we don't want here. That's why they invented Jamie Oliver to promote local food and use and eat local food. That's why the subsidy system is important in Serbia, and that's why rural development is important, because we want to buy the domestic food that we're all looking for. We hear that we love domestic food, etc., so we have to have some level of infrastructure to get some guests from Serbia, first of all, into other areas and consume it. It has to be safe. It's important to stand in these subsidies and that's a great thing. It's the idea of a subsidy. The idea is that we have a safe product and that someone can buy it. It's very important that we have a transfer of knowledge from university to primary producers. We lost that knowledge transfer. The advisory services haven't worked for a long, long time. The largest number of these are commercial passengers for seed dealers, protection of veterinary etc., etc. We tried to defend it physically. We need to restore the knowledge that exists at universities and which is still very problematic and transfer it through the system to the primary manufacturers. It is therefore important to reform agricultural advisory services, which do not function as they are. It's not enough to receive agronomies who don't know what to do, that they should do that job. It's a populist measure. Here, I'll admit it now, it's a populist measure. We need to know what we want. If we know what we want, then those measures must follow what we want. We want to satisfy the domestic market first, reduce dependence on imports. The thing about food isn't just about taste and consumption, it's about safety. That is why there are no EU stock reserves, but NATO is dealing with food quantities. You need to be safe with certain amounts of food, because you can't make enough food today in case of some environmental disasters, war or anything else. We must first base ourselves on meeting our needs, and when we meet our needs, primarily with quality food, then we can think about CEFTA. We've been listening these days to how SSP and CEFTA are the biggest crimes for agriculture. That's not true. Well, we have a surplus with these countries exclusively because of agriculture. With this Kosovo, we have a huge surplus. The fact that we don't understand that we need to regulate relations, that we have to regulate relationships, whatever we talk about, we make an external trade surplus in Kosovo, we import nothing, and we sell tens of millions of euros in primary agricultural products.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11032	Ambassador, it's not an external trade deficit, I have to correct you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11033	I'm talking about incentives. That is why incentives are important, to satisfy the domestic market and to attack markets that are traditionally favoured by us, which is primarily CEFTA, so the Western EU and, of course, Russia and every third market we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11034	The 13th Amendment, with correction, was filed by MP Nenad Christmas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11035	Article 13 refers to Article 39. The law, which refers to incentives for diversification of income and improvement of quality of life in rural areas. Our amendment also applies here to legal persons that are covered by the amendment as users of funds on this basis, because we want to exclude legal persons that are classified as large or medium, but that remain only legal persons that are classified as micro, by being cooperatives, and in addition, of course, entrepreneurs and natural persons bearers of family agricultural land. What's very interesting here, let's say, I'm curious about how now in some rural area some big legal person is going to be involved with these funds. I see this as a possibility that someone in that rural area can open up some processing plant or something and, say, possibly hires those people who live there, that they're working probably for some minimum wage, how it usually happens when these big investors invest, and the state gives them money. We think it is much better that this money goes away to these people, especially from these areas and young people who are also mentioned here as one of the promotion activities, so that they themselves will develop these agricultural holdings or work as entrepreneurs in agriculture or even have some micro-enterprises. The point of our amendment is exactly that. Please answer me – has the amendment and this previous one been rejected only because of a technical error or does the minister have something to comment on, as far as agricultural policy is concerned? I'd like that very much. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11036	Thank you. On the 14th Amendment, with a correction, was filed by MP Nenad Christmas.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11037	Article 14 refers to Article 40a, as regards incentives to improve the creation and transfer of knowledge. Here it is also possible for large legal entities and medium-level legal entities to receive funds to support the provision of advice, information to farmers and associations, cooperatives and other legal persons in agriculture. We believe this should cover only cooperatives, whether legal persons are classified as micro and entrepreneurs and farmers. For what? Because big ones, they're big because that's why they came because they already have some knowledge. They have technology. They're available technology, they're available knowledge. They can achieve some kind of incentive for it through other programmes, so they may work together on some European programmes, development programmes, which include universities, both here and abroad, firms from abroad. It's an opportunity for them. They don't need the state to give them money to educate them. They can do it another way, if they want to and if they really want to invest in development and knowledge. Knowledge needs these little ones, who don't get a chance to get it any other way. They need help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11038	Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11039	Your Honor, this is another amendment we really don't know why it wasn't accepted. So, in Article 15. The draft law says point 5 - incentives for promotional activities in agriculture and rural development. For Serbian citizens, the Dveri Parliamentary Group has proposed that the amendment reads as follows: "Incentives for special advisory and educational television programmes, promotional activities in agriculture and rural development are payments approved for the development and broadcasting of advisory and educational television programmes up to a maximum of three hours a day through regional broadcasters and Serbian Radio-Television, and under the conditions of competition of the Ministry and Agriculture Advisory Service. So this is an amendment looking for people from the village. People aren't educated, people don't have the ability to visit seminars and this kind of promotion of agricultural production would be extremely useful for all people, especially young people living in the country. I would tell you, Minister, that this is a practice in many European countries, not to mention Russia here, although there are no more people who are creeping when the word Russia is mentioned. It is safe for you to have a state television farm that will broadcast an educational program 24 hours a day. I think that this answer that you've given here is insufficient, so it doesn't match what we've suggested and we think that this is one thing that is necessary for the development of Serbian agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11040	Parliamentarians Dejan Sulkic, Milan Lapčević and Gorica Gajic together submitted the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 16 of the amendment, with correction, the MP Nenad Christmas submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Radosav Milojic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Goran Jesic, Gordana Comić, Goran Ćirić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Maja Vidinović, Natasa Vukković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic and Veroljub Stevanović submitted to the 18th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 21 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11041	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is again a matter of relief in the registration of agricultural holdings, i.e. the renewal of registration and, in the case of non-competitional land, that they may be declared in the vault. On the one hand, it will reduce the crowds, on the other hand there will be lower costs and thirdly, most importantly, people will devote that time to production, they won't have to wait in long lines and hire some agencies to do these jobs for them. This will all contribute to making incentives easier to reach farmers, to do it faster, etc. Because incentives do not only help farmers, but consumers, that they have cheaper food, to be sure of the supply of the market. The state is so sure, if God comes, don't give us any new military and economic pressures on our country, they'll have enough food and we're witnessing that it was the '90s, that it was our only green branch. On the third hand, most importantly, the processing industry will be sure to have raw materials in the same way that some other countries have, i.e. through incentives will come up with cheaper raw materials and thus make a competitive product that can go to the CEFTA market. As far as the SAA is concerned, I must say that it is very bad in that part of agriculture, given that it has allowed premature and excessive liberalisation, that our agriculture has not been prepared but money, instead of incentivising and developing agriculture, I have already said for what purposes, that the money is mostly finished for apartments in Vienna, Novi Sad, Penthaus etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11042	Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We're moving to the next item of the agenda, that's the proposal of the Change and Completion Act on Water. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Branka Stamenkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Goran Chabradi has submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 3rd amendment, with a correction, were jointly submitted by the MPs Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić and Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, pursuant to Article 163(2). The Rules of Procedure rejected this amendment and rejected amendments, according to Article 4, cannot be discussed and are not voted on. National MP Branko Stamenkovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 5th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11043	Article 5 refers to the existing Article 9 and talks about coastal land. Article 9 provides for the width of coastal land belts in an unprotected area from floods to 10 metres. We have suggested that it be up to 15 meters, taught by experience, all of what happened in those terrible floods that hit Serbia and all of this happening and in the meantime a little more rain, every moment of the day, floods are happening, and this protected area should certainly be extended to 15 meters. You ministers say you can't accept the amendment because it's an area that's not protected by floods with a 10-metre coastal belt, as you said, that much more space than the area is protected by floods, because it covers a natural sink for big 100-year water. So, quite vaguely this explanation of yours why it's not 15 meters, why it's 10 meters away. I also remind you of what I said in the principle debate on the coastal land problem along the river Morava, where a large amount of land actually became a river. Morava literally took people away from that country, and you still haven't solved the tax problem that you're bound by the former owners. They still get the solutions to pay the disposal fee. You promised with Mrs. Brnabić that you would solve it and you should really solve it, and you should think about it again, this is a very useful and practical amendment and you know it yourself, and you're talking about the problems that existed, which unfortunately little, little bit, so it comes up when the floods are at stake. This would really be something that would be of general use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11044	Representatives Nenad Canak, Nada Lazic and Olena Papuga submitted to the 6th amendment. The People's Messenger, Nada Lazic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11045	The Honorable Chairman and Honorable Mr. Minister, this is a member referring to the purpose of waterland. It is said here that water land is intended for the maintenance and improvement of the water regime in accordance with this law and the acts adopted under this law, and in particular for the construction, reconstruction and rehabilitation of water facilities, the maintenance of waterbeds and water facilities, and the implementation of measures relating to water treatment and protection against harmful water facts, water treatment and water use and water protection. We intervened in this article, given that you, apart from these main activities for which water land is intended, gave a whole series of exceptions, so it is said, except for the purposes of building and maintaining line infrastructure facilities etc. In particular, the formation of temporary sewage dumps and sands and other materials has been fueled. At this point we intervened because under this "other material" I don't know what it all applies to, it can also be, say, deposited amounts of salt for winter purposes or some other material, meaning all those other materials that can adversely affect the quality of water. That is why we intervened in this article by simply throwing out the two words "other material" simply, believing that in this area of waterland very controlled activities are necessary and precise when it comes to the materials being deposited there. However, you rejected it by considering that our request is simply not justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11046	The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11047	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Look, this first part of the amendment, where pollution is covered, we might as well accept that we don't have this second part of the amendment. These other materials, watch out, in the transport of goods by rivers, other than sand, gravel, are often delayed by other materials due to further transport. That's the only reason. There is no other reason why we refused that amendment. I say, if he had been separated into two separate amendments, they would have absolutely accepted this first part.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11048	The 6th amendment was submitted to the MPs, Stoja Mijailovic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Parliamentarians Zoran Krasic and Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić submitted the 6th amendment together. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11049	At first, I have to say that this amendment of ours is a little messy and vague, but it's known from an opportunity of what it refers to. Practically supplementing the new text of Article 10, with the last attitude and can be interpreted. The same is true of the purpose of water land. We're just asking to insert more, if I may say so, one point that water-land can be built and facilities designed to protect water from pollution. You say this is covered by the term "water object". We believe that this ecological aspect of water protection should be particularly potent, because this law regulates both rivers, streams, pipelines, water lines, almost to regulate and water in a bottle. Environmental protection of the water stream is very important, but we are afraid, taught by experience – whom the snake burns, it is afraid, you know. We're afraid this way if you change it to article 10, that by any chance they don't stay those cottages next to Sava. Those three, without a building permit. There's a great danger, and we're in an ecological phase now, so we want complete garbage to be removed so there's no flood, so it's clear, that there's water that can carry everything that needs to be worn, and we think that there's something that you might be doing here, because in the next articles a, b, v, what's going on, we recognize something that goes towards law enforcement, but it can't be mutilated, not at all. But it would be instructive to collapse, as a warning to everyone else not to build it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11050	Thank you. Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11051	Madam Chairman, honourable MPs, I think that this amendment is on the trail of what we have provided for existing solutions within the framework of the amendments and the addition of the Water Act, above all I am referring to point 1 of the same article. You in the opening provisions, or at the beginning of the Water Act, have what is a water object. It's absolutely covered, and this notion that you're talking about, you don't have any fear that in any way, I know you probably have a big concern, but don't worry, we've been keeping an eye on it and don't have any dilemma.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11052	Thank you. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) There's no time left for your group, just a bearer or one of the groups that has time. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Goran Chabradi. Does anyone want a word? (No) Representatives Nenad Canak, Nada Lazic, Olena Papuga together submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Alexander Jerkov, an MP, submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) A Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted to Marinika Tepic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 7th amendment was submitted by MP Ostova Mijailovic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by Bosko Obradovic, Srdjan Nogo, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojčić, Marija Janjusevic, Miladin Ševarlic and Dragan Vesovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you are, Maria Janjušević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11053	Thank you, Chairman. This is really about jurisdiction. We believe that the Vojvodina were given powers at the level of the competent ministry, which was not necessary. We believe that this should be lifted, that only the competent ministry should determine the limits of water land. It is a matter of unnecessary transfer of competence from the republic to the level of the autonomous province, of administration service, of budgets to unnecessary additional costs in managing parallel transactions. So, according to the general savings, and everything I've stated, I think the amendment should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11054	The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by Tomislav Ljubenović and Verica Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11055	Article 8 refers to Article 11 of the Law that you have changed here, and you, Minister, have talked a lot about this article, in fact, about this subject, and it concerns the determination of the limits of water land, and you have well realized that the experience has shown that some changes were to be made here, and in the right direction, this is done, and we sincerely hope that this will indeed end formally, from the adoption of plans of general regulation, urban planning, detailed plans, detailed regulation, etc. It's good that based on this article, again, God forbid anything that happened two years ago when it comes to floods, which will somehow be easier to determine who the organ in charge of this kind of problem is. But we thought it would be a good idea that, and such an amendment, we suggested, that it be prescribed, that the government commit itself, that the government, by its regulation, regulate the way in which water land is determined and bordered. You're the one who predicted it was the minister. Our position, our Serbian radicals, is principled that we always think that the state body should be the one, and who is currently the minister, who is, who is going to be, etc. somehow does not go to be bound by one person. Therefore, our proposal is that you accept this amendment and that it is the Government that will regulate the way in which water land is determined and bordered in accordance with this Article 11. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11056	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11057	Ladies and gentlemen, my colleague, Ms. Radeta, has explained why we believe this amendment should be adopted. As far as this Water Act is concerned, I would just like to point out a few notes, since there is a Mr. Minister, and that some things still have to change and pay more attention to the waters in the future. Here's an example, who's to blame for the citizens of Central and North Banat, and especially Zrenjanin, Kikinda, having no proper water for more than ten years, this Smederjevska Palanka, what about Uzic, why Užice doesn't have healthy drinking water often? (Zoran Krasic: Ritopek, and 20km from Belgrade. ) Ritopek, what does counterpart Krasic say? So these are the problems that the government and the competent ministry need to pay more attention to in the next period than in the past. You have a pleasure part and a drain of Drine, which absolutely with lakes, lemon hydropower plants can provide a sufficient amount of healthy and clean drinking water. So it's important that in addition to the quality of the water for Banat, both the middle and the north, it can be provided from the Deliblat Cave in the Dubovac move. These are huge amounts of healthy water that can supply half of Vojvodina. As for water streams, in the past, for a few years back, we had dozens of millions of euros in damages only by the guilt of some authority that did not regulate the water streams, nor did it take timely measures to prevent huge damages and victims of our citizens. Consider Obrenovac, Luciane, southern Serbia. You'll see how much that expenditure was and how much damage it was. Therefore, it is not clear why, despite these great destructions and great damages, huge ones, nothing is done enough. Something's going on, but not enough. Therefore, the SRS has repeatedly pointed out that this issue must be given due attention. As for these amendments, which have been tabled and proposed, I can only notice, Mr. Minister, the promoters and the people who have worked in this area and on the bill, I think that the large number of amendments that you have adopted are proof that MPs are the ones who can make a big contribution to making good laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11058	Members of the Devere parliamentary group submitted together to Article 9 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by Marko Milenkovic and Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Marko Milenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11059	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with counterpart Natasa Jovanovic, we have tabled two amendments to this proposal on amendments to the Water Law. The government has accepted our amendment to Article 35 of the Law, while the one that regulates the right to interfere with the purchase of water land is not. The objective of the amendment is to improve the text of the law and to define the position of 2 of Article 9, so that we do not see the reason for its acceptance. The amendment suggests that the owner who intends to sell water land is obliged to submit a written offer to the competent authority of the Republic of Serbia. So, the essence of our amendment is just a written offer that does not exist in the current law, nor in these changes and additions that you propose and by adopting the written offer, or by accepting our amendment, would exactly avoid potential problems, later agreeing in four eyes on the sale of waterland or court proceedings and proving whether or not there was an offer. I will also take advantage of the opportunity, Mr. Minister, to point out to you one of the pearls of Serbia's natural wealth that is currently in decline, which, with the help of the state, would become a very important business entity for all of southern Serbia. It is the mineral water Milan Toplica in Prokuplje, more specifically in Tular, a village between Prokuplje and Kursumlje. In 1931, the water conquered Gran Pri in Paris, 1933, in London. This factory ended in 2002, it was privatized in 2004, bought by "Atlas Group" and "C Market", then Milan Toplica went into bankruptcy, to buy the factory "Invest Import International", a new owner, is said to have invested significant funds abroad, built a large hall, imported the most modern machinery and now there are four wells, practically four sources, where only one source, that extremely high-quality water flows into Toplice 18 liters in one second. In order to employ citizens of this area of the municipality of Prokuplje and the entire Toplička district, it is extremely important that, as Government and Resorship Minister, we react and see if the factory can be launched, that its work is launched, and that our people are employed. Of course, the interest of the Serbian state, as well as the municipality of Prokuplje, is also given the high capacity and for direct budget filling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11060	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Chabradi. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Mr Goran Chabradi has submitted to Article 11 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Mr Goran Chabradi has submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojčić, Marija Janjušević, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić and Dr. Dragan Vesović. Does anyone want a word? The word is given by the MP Marija Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11061	In fact, in all the amendments to this law, we went to the fact that the AP should not give jurisdiction to the Republic and that it is in terms of saving costs and every other sense good. What I would personally like is that it was either the plural of an autonomous province or that we listed the name Vojvodina and Kosovo and Metohija, because it is not to be ashamed and these laws are also one of the ways to safeguard territorial integrity. Believe me, everyone will respect us more if we respect ourselves and emphasize that the laws cover both Kosovo and Metohija, because if we had done so from the beginning, we would all have been respected more and we would not have to flee from Brussels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11062	The word has the People's MP Goran Jesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11063	To clarify this amendment, about all these amendments that are behind us. It's not about territorial integrity, it's about functional integrity. It is good that this law abolishes something that is not functional, it is Belgrade Water and I think it is the generator of the technical problem that has happened or will be abolished by intensity both because of the plums and everything. The Duke's water has to do with the problem of the lush waters, Serbia's water as much as the fluid that flows through it, water, and that's all the connection between one and another. It's not that small, but it's totally pointless to talk about it. That's the first thing. The other thing, knowledge, management and mode are completely different. Experiences are completely different. The Duke's water in various forms has been institutional since 1793 and has been dealing with some other problem. No water engineer from Vojvodina can solve the problem that people in Serbia know water with the experience of lush waters, etc. The second thing, the level of investment that needs to be invested in Serbia to prevent Luciani from being flooded ten or twelve times in three years, which is the centre of the dedicated industry, implies that we should focus on projects, first of all, in Serbia in order to prevent lush water, and unfortunately has nothing to do with drinking water. There is no, no Vojvodina, no Serbia water, no Water Liaison Directorate overly with drinking waters, and we all need to know when we're talking about it tonight. As far as investment is concerned, we have a problem here. We have a problem with the fact that Abu Dhabi's fund is up to a year and we have 27 million projects and we need to ask ourselves why we haven't spent that money and why we're not spending it this year. In my opinion, there are two problems here. One problem is the lack of projects, and another the lack of management that leads to it. With all due respect, the 160m euros we received for the 2014 flood recovery were realised only there, mainly in the Roads and Railways Directorate where projects existed. Nothing has been done to prevent the effects of the flood, and yet there is a lack of projects. Milan Blagojevic, the leading gentleman, thinks he is not qualified and cannot be more qualified than any engineer from the Water Directorate, Serbia water and Vojvodina water. We're going back to investment, 27m euros, two projects, I think, are going through an emergency procedure from Serbia. A sabbatical that has been open to us for four or five years with four full years to defend against the outside waters since the World Bank loan. Another project is going to take place in central Serbia. What are we going to do to fix the situation in Serbia? Do we all believe that Jaroslav Cherney can do projects? And you and I, Minister, know that Jaroslav Cherney doesn't have the capacity to do that. How are we going to strengthen knowledge that can bring new projects as soon as possible? You were talking about three big licenses or two big licenses. One in Belgrade and one in Novi Sad. It's not enough that we can draw money and solve problems. The only problem that exists in central Serbia, nor the level of investment, six billion, in Vojvodina, is not just the only problem that can solve problems for only three years. The average age of 375 aggregates in Vojvodina is about 40 to 60 years, I think. These aggregates consume too much energy, they're not efficient, they can't be remotely controlled. We want to irrigate, and they're single-systems, they serve to drain, they don't serve to bring water back to our first systems and second systems. How are we supposed to irrigate when we don't have water in August? One pump costs a million or two million euros. We need to see what the priorities are in one piece, and that it doesn't disrupt territorial integrity. The efficiency of a single country. That efficiency has proved to be correct several times. In order for the Duke's water to function, that we can have 350,000 acres of water in our irrigation systems, we need to continue this level of investment and let people do their job. It is necessary to strengthen Serbia's waters and it is necessary that we increase Serbia's budget. Serbia, if I'm not mistaken, is less than two billion this year, two billion dinars. With two billion dinars, 18 million euros, you can't absolutely, for God's sake, do anything, and we're complaining on the other side of the draining fee. I'll say a few sentences here. That fee itself should not be called a disposal fee because it leads to confusion. I am absolutely to include all property owners in Serbia, and this is a system that has been established in Croatia and has produced top results. It will reduce agricultural producers' prices per hectare, but will allow Serbia's water and Vojvodina's water and Water Directorate to function. Why would you take a farmer per hectare of land for disposal, either in Serbia or in Vojvodina, and then take that money and build embankments in Novi Sad or in another town? Why would he? That's not fair. It's fair that I who owns the apartment or anyone else has to pay for that flood defense. These are things we need to know. Now we have a problem with the lack of efficient projects. They're such a character to last a long time. You have the first idea project, so you have a detailed regulation plan that covers several municipalities, so you have a tender and process documentation, and that's a few years. How far did we get at this point with projects in central Serbia, and how far did we get to Vojvodina? We have money that runs out on us in 2017. We're paying 0.5% intercal interest on them. Why not use that money, or talk to Minister Vujovic, this is effective, and improve the water economy of the Republic of Serbia? That's why it's completely insane to talk about national disintegrity, things that really have nothing to do with the functionality of each other's jobs. One goal, Vojvodina's waters were made in 1793 by a contract between Kish and Austro-Hungarian. First, to dry the swamp, and to cut the road short, for the oxes were drawn upriverly by ships. The needs there are completely different. If you don't clean the canals, you have 300,000 acres each year of swept land. At 150,000 acres we sow corn. The corn is not rice, it looks for dry land, asks you to develop the system up to five metres because of nitrogen from land and water, not to sow it in the mud, so you have a weeded system of meters, so in August, when it's dry, it's always in August, you get that plant out. You have yields and damages of nearly 500m euros, a minimum of 500m euros if you don't clean the channels every year. Let's agree to reform the compensation system together. It's not fair that the peasant is the only one who pays the fee, and that we're all building a embezzlement in Belgrade, Novi Sad or anywhere else. That's what everyone has to pay for, because it's a security measure and those funds have to be dedicated and the water budget has to go, and they can't be touched. And let's see what we can do with the design houses. My experience with Cherney as secretary, as president of the municipality, is terrible. You're always getting ideas projects, ideas solutions. The performance project you and I didn't get for Srem after four years, even though we paid for it. Thank you for accepting the amendments. It's stupid to export this story to a political story. I think the law is much better than it used to be because it first defines the purpose of fundraising. It is very important that we do not burden the tax administration and that those who use these funds collect these funds. It's very important that the sooner we redefine that fee that's been accidentally called the disposal fee, the sooner we call it the water fee. It's important to see what we do with the contaminants that we've misdefined here. That I think is the weakest part of this law and that we all try to solve the problem together. We can't have such a water industry that doesn't suit us and we can't have that kind of loss of economy, eventually human losses in the 21st century. That's why we all need to talk together about how to make it look better, not tell political stories here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11064	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Goran Jesic, Gordana Komic, Goran Ćirić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Maja Vidinović, Natasa Vukković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic, Veroljub Stevanović and Radoslav Milojic together submitted to the 13th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP Ivana Stoiljkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11065	Thank you, Chairman. I was expecting that even the promoter would say something about his amendment that he proposed. First of all, I would be grateful to talk about all these reasons why this amendment was in principle rejected, but I can't say that their intention was bad. So, this amendment proposed by the opposition MPs is above all not accepted because the introduction of the order of the first and second categories and the definition of jurisdiction over the waters of the first and second categories is in line with the Emergency Law. What is very important and what is very important for every praise that this law will bring is the recognition that there are about 11.5 thousand water streams that pose a great danger to our country, and the floods are no longer a hundred-year problem, but, unfortunately, we have seen that this can happen much more often now. We have also insisted on environmental protection committees to map, or map erosion areas, and that is all that will be covered by these amendments to this law and I am very glad that the jurisdiction is now in some way centralized. I come from Uzic where we had, a colleague mentioned earlier, a water problem, and we know what it looked like the moment the haemaria happened, when we just didn't know who to turn to, because we didn't know who was in charge. So now, at the moment of hawari, of course, there will be a priority on second-class waters to include local self-government, so in the event of a need, the district will be included, but the republican level will be the one to make final decisions. Well, that's all I'm saying, 'cause this is gonna make a big move when it comes to these problems. As for the arrangements of the floodwaters themselves, that's all I'd like to say, today we've been talking about water-landing and water-landing. We can arrange the water streams, but if we haven't arranged the land areas again, we can expect floods. That's why I'm glad that this law has brought about that kind of change to be managed now in the land areas, because you and the riverbed, if around the bottom area that covers several kilometers of width and you have naked, you have a cut forest, you have nothing to absorb in the water, you can expect floods again. Since this amendment has applied to some changes, I have taken the opportunity to praise all these changes that will bring this law and I think we are laying very good foundations so that what happened in 2014 never happens again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11066	Thank you. Member of the 14th Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Chabradi. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) To Article 14. The amendment was brought together by MPs Sreto Peric and Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11067	My colleague Krasic and I have submitted an amendment to Article 14 and on Article 27. Water law. Article 27. It regulates water areas in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, so according to the proposal for this law on amendments and amendments to the law, there are five: the Sava water area, the Danube water area, the Morava water area, the Ibar and Lepenac water area and the Beli Drim water area. We have proposed our amendment to add point 6 to the water area of Kosovo and Metohija. Mr. Minister, I don't understand how you didn't accept this amendment. This is necessary, this is mandatory. This is what the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia obliges us to do. We also owe this to the descendants, and to our ancestors we are obliged to introduce this team before the Law on the Waters of Kosovo and Metohija exists as a land area, especially when it is known and has in mind that the territory of the Republic of Serbia is a unique water management area. The international community when it talks about Kosovo and Metohija puts on a star. You didn't do it at all. If he were sitting in your seat from the previous regime, I would understand, but you once belonged to a party who advocated the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija within Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11068	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Goran Jesic, Gordana Comić, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Maja Vidinović, Natasa Vučković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic, Veroljub Stevanović and Radoslav Milojčić submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Marinika Tepic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sreto Peric and Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11069	We have submitted an amendment relating to this article regarding the determination of the erosion area. I have to tell you at first that the water facility, as you spoke earlier, does not exist in this law. Another thing, did you read the Construction and Planning Act? Have you seen the building and building regulations? Have you seen what objects are being built on water, by water, etc? What you wrote doesn't exist in what binds you. It's about the previous amendment. As far as this amendment is concerned, I guess the government's competent authority is a ministry, not a minister. The minister is an in-house person in the state body, and look what you have written – Minister, Minister of Agriculture Affairs, Minister for Forest Affairs, Minister for Environmental Protection and Natural Resources. They're not in charge, their ministries are in charge. We suggest you unite it in one ministry. That's the ministry you're headed on. I know this isn't gonna go away because the Democrats re-edited something that's normal and according to the Constitution seven years ago. When the state authority is defined, it is said -- the ministry responsible for affairs, so that jobs are listed and the name of the ministry is avoided, because the name can be changed from government to government, and then they have inserted the minister and now the flood has started by law and are now responsible ministers instead of the state authority. Look what you have now invented here -- the Minister, then the Minister for the Forests, then the Minister for Water, then the Minister for Agriculture, and the Minister for this. So who's the first minister in front of you? Please, we tried to sort it out a little bit in that first part of our amendment, but you here are obviously continuing what the Democrats started wrongly. You count 126, make out who's going to tell us can't. Of course, there's one mistake here. I know there's one mistake, because another ministry was supposed to sign up. But if we had fixed that too, you wouldn't have adopted it because it's contrary to the practice that exists here. Instead of the ministry, there's the minister, the deity, the goddess of Ra. Don't break the rules. On the occasion of this previous amendment, please, the Constitution knows about Kosovo and Metohija, that member should not have changed around the water areas, you should not have changed it. You have thus destroyed even with a topon of Kosovo and Metohija and a cannon. Why are you throwing Kosovo and Metohija out of all our regulations? With what right? You can't do this under the Constitution. What you say -- the plums, so the plums existed before Kosovo and Metohija, were then no interference with defining it as a Kosovo-metohic or Kosovo and Metohija. No, you've been ordered to drop this as a topon from the collective memory and memory of the Serb people. Now, we won't forgive you for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11070	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Mr Goran Chabradi has submitted to Article 31 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Natasa Jovanovic and Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11071	Using an erotic area, Mr. Minister, and in general land erosion is a major problem in Serbia and the very data that, perhaps now it is more than 25 thousand hectares of land annually we lose it fragrantly. You have to do everything if you want to solve this problem to go systemically to solve it. It's not just this law. There must be some strategic measures and plans to do so. On the other hand, this is not enough to put only the erosion area, because the categorization of it has to exist, where total erosion has taken people to the fields, and where the river has now changed course, like in my village of Katrga in the valley of West Morava, where there is no longer a field of my grandfather, nor neighbors, nor any further relatives, etc., as well as that we can't, so we proposed this amendment, we condition the people who use this land to perform all the works. That is why this word was certainly acceptable. For what? Because it's exactly the state that needs to do it, to protect against further flows and application of exactly that land. They can't build dams, right? They can do something to stop it. They can't execute the plantations. Here, I'll tell you on the case, therefore, and my latest experience and fellow MPs. We visited the People's Republic of China. You know there's a lot of floods there because of a lot of streams and rainfall. All the way from Beijing to Sudjou, that's 1,500 kilometers, but here we are, with the will of our hosts, traveling on that fast MAGLEV train, so we're past those pictures. It's planted more colossal. You know very well that tree can reach the height of a few meters in just three years. I think that these forest plantings, especially where stealing, carelessness and such things have led to erosion and the loss of so many acres, the state has to take care of that. That is why the amendment is very meaningful, because certain works can and everything else must be done by the state and the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11072	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 35 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. The word is by MP Branka Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11073	With this amendment, I have proposed to delete Article 35 concerning amendments to Article 75 of the original Water Act, primarily because these articles are subject to changes in previous conditions for examining the quality of bathing water and drinking water. In the current law and drinking water and bathing water, they had to meet certain health conditions. It is now changing, and in this new version there is a difference between drinking water and bathing water, and drinking water should meet the conditions for health care and water for bathing in terms of quality. I don't understand why we had to make that difference. I think bathing water can also produce certain health problems if it is not medically correct, and in the previous version of the law, that's how it was. I thought we'd better stick with that. As far as I'm aware, the health soundness of the water is being checked by public health institutions. The question for the minister is – is this separation practically opening up the possibility that the quality of bathing water is being performed by someone other than public health? Whether these changes will lower the criteria and standards for water quality, i.e. Health care, first of all? That's what worries most about those who consume water and use it to bathe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11074	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11075	Thank you. Absolutely not, there won't be any problems in this part. This is about implementing two different directives that two categories of these waters regulate. Accredited organisations will have the right to examine quality, and closer conditions for this are provided for by whom. Absolutely there will be no problem in further application and control and water for swimming and drinking.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11076	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? By amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11077	By amendment. So the quality, the health properness of bathing water will remain, the same criteria. Why did we have to change the name because of the EU, just to be called differently, and the criteria remain the same as those that have been so far?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11078	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11079	They don't stay the same criteria. The criteria are prescribed by the health minister and these criteria change. In any case, the procedures and organs that have done so so far will be able to do so if they meet these criteria. Nothing loses quality.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11080	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Mr Marko Milenković and Natasa Jovanovic submitted together to the 35th amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11081	It's good, Mr. Minister, that you've accepted this amendment. However, we have reacted from the beginning when it comes to drinking water, because in Article 3 where the concepts are defined, and I do not know for what reason the amendment has been rejected and has not been found here at all in the debate in the procedure, to define that this water is intended for human use, which, by its characteristics, meets the prescribed criteria in the field of health protection. That's the basic term part. In practice and in real life, drinking water is controlled by competent institutions in municipalities and cities of units of local self-government only from sources under the authority of the city, i.e. municipalities. When it comes to private wells, we have such a case, right, Mrs. Radeta, in the village of Brzen near Batocina, where the biggest problem is and where the association of citizens who are asking for the government to involve you personally, ministers, in solving the problem. No one controls the correctness of that water. In the end, look at the village wells. Here, again, not to advertise my famous village, but also in it and in other parts of Serbia, how many people who use it, probably in your midst, Mr. Minister, drinking water over hydrophores, or killing pipes to a level where that water is possible to go its own course and who controls it? People drink that, little children, and, of course, the control of bathing water is also very important. We have suggested the correctness of quality, but believe me, no criminal provisions can help and force irresponsible people in local self-government to make sure that the health and life of people are not at risk. I'll finish with that. Kragujevac doesn't have his own swimming river. We have the famous Lepenica, it's a small river, a river, but that's why I have the Kragujevac Sea, the Forest Lake, the artificial accumulator's lake that's been for years, and that water's wrong there, and thousands and thousands of people, tens of thousands, each flying season baths there. There is a warning from the office – we warn, water is not right for swimming. The city authorities do nothing to cleanse and what they can do, and there it is in the power of the SNS, now, and neither Stevanović nor DS have done, do as much as, so much as it is qualified for citizens, especially small children to bathe there. So it's a good thing this amendment is accepted, but it's only a partial solution, the problems are much longer and I don't have time to talk about it anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11082	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? National MPs Nenad Canak, Nada Lazic and Olena Papuga submitted to the 35th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The 36th Amendment was submitted by MP Branka Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11083	Thank you. This amendment of mine, in some ways, is attached to the previous one. The theme is the same. So my concern that the proposed changes, in fact, open wide the door to possibilities, is that the current criteria for measuring water quality in the future are reduced. This time it's about water at the springs. So far, it was necessary to maintain water quality so as not to endanger the health soundness of water at the source. Now, these changes are no longer interested in not jeopardizing the health regularity of water at the source, but in maintaining the quality of water in a way that does not cause and cannot cause water pollution at the source. This amendment suggests that things stay the same, that we continue to be primarily interested in health care, has been rejected by reason that not every water on every spring is healthy, and the proposed changes provide protection for all raw waters, even those where the water is not healthy. I think we should strive to keep the water healthy at every source, and I really don't know this matter enough to know to what extent it's feasible with the resources we have. In that sense, if I'm worried about this, I guess a large number of citizens are also interested in hearing an explanation, so in that sense, if you could just more extensively than what was given in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11084	The word has Minister Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11085	The President-in-Office, gentlemen of the Parliament, does not have to, as a rule, have every water on the origin to be automatically correct. There are springs, they are mostly protected by areas of sanitary protection around the source itself, it then goes into the processing system, and then becomes completely correct and safe for all those who are consumers of it. What I'm also saying is, with the directives that I just said, we're still increasing control criteria, not lowering, we're going in the opposite direction. If my explanation pleases you, I'll be happy about it. But in this form, we are unable to accept the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11086	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The People's MPs Nenad Canak, Nada Lazic and Olena Papuga submitted together to Article 37 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Nenad Canak, Nada Lazic and Olena Papuga. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Nada Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11087	The President-in-Office, Mr Minister, the amendment refers to the use of water for irrigation, specifically the conditions for use, or when it comes to groundwaters that can be used to irrigate agricultural land, we have here requested, in addition to these conditions that you have stated, that this use does not deny, for example, the right to use water for priority purposes under Article 71, etc., that there is no possibility of a procedure from surface waters and that there is a good availability of groundwater resources. In particular, the most frequently spoken of in Vojvodina is the amount of water that can be used for irrigation, and it seems to me very little to make sure that this water meets the quality conditions, i.e. as it is not polluted. We have complemented this member by conditions that water water for irrigation meets the quality conditions. You rejected the amendment on the grounds that the Water Act is prescribed that water used for irrigation, but to another member for irrigation of agricultural cultures, must meet the quality requirements, taking into account the type of land, the type of irrigation, as well as the agricultural culture. In the proposal for this amendment, I focused on the pollution of water that can occur, because it is necessary to know about the fact and practice that is spread across Vojvodina, that in the villages of the former wells, as villages are entrenched to some of their public waterways, that former wells are transformed into septic caves, resulting in the pollution of the first issue. It often happens that the water used, I speak exclusively of groundwaters, that, for example, cases of fecal pollution have been caught and that water has been used, for example, to irrigate salad or cabbage. So I think that water use for irrigation is extremely important when it comes to quality. I will remind you that the document that regulated precisely the quality was brought in 1994 and it was called a rule on the permitted quantities of dangerous and harmful matter in the land and water for irrigation and methods for their examination. I am interested in whether there is now some sublegal act or the plan for it to be adopted, that this aspect, the pollution of groundwater, or even water used to irrigate it, is regulated, because I am afraid that we will only worry about the amounts of water for irrigation and there is a lot of talk about systems in Vojvodina, etc. and this aspect is ignored. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11088	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11089	It's still in effect at the moment. However, just in the context of the enhanced need for irrigation and investment that will go ahead, a new regulation will be introduced that will regulate the maximum levels of certain types of matter so that water for irrigation can be worked and used at all. This is at the very end of the line by Article 82 of the Law, provided for the minister to adopt a special regulation and that will be regulated.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11090	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 41st Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Mr Goran Chabradi has submitted to Article 41 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 42nd Amendment with the correction was jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Jovo Ostojić. The word is "Verica Radet."
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11091	Anything that goes further towards the end of this amendment law and the additions of the Water Act, the impression is that it is not essentially as good as you ministers tried to present to us in the principle debate. When we talk about details, one part of the amendment you have accepted, it is nothing controversial, but in essence you do not answer in the right way the questions of the MPs. You are a decent man, and you treat MPs like that, and that's fine, but what's the point, where we go next to the end of this law? We actually see that you only changed this law because you were assigned, only because you had to, because they told you in the EU and in the European Commission. Then you've changed the terminology, it's not about this particular article about the right to exploit river applications, it's about extracting river applications, but I don't know why you didn't accept this amendment. I get the impression that you didn't understand what we were actually trying to accomplish with the amendment. When we said we should talk about renewable and non-renewable applications, I guess you should know what we mean. There are applications that are renewed and those that are non-renewable. There are local self-government municipalities that apply you for exploitation without an orderly license, I come to you, to some kind of transgender france combination, and then it comes to the situation that that renewable part actually turns into non-renewable because the president is making it there for his friend, friend, or he takes the money and exploiting it completely destroys it. And again we come to the river Morava as an example. Why did I say that you were essentially only working on EU orders? Because you said in an explanation for not accepting an amendment that you cannot accept it because the water areas are given in the draft law, that you have received a positive assessment of the EU Commission's compliance with EU rules for them. So, due to this EU regulation in this law, ministers, there is no water area in Kosovo and Metohija. So, another act, another law, another prank by the government of the Republic of Serbia where Kosovo and Metohija are slowly but certainly wiped out of the legal order of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11092	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Nenad Canak, Nada Lazic and Olena Papuga. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Mr Goran Chabradi has submitted to Article 50 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Nenad Canak, Nada Lazic and Olena Papuga together submitted to Article 51 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Natasa Jovanovic and Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić submitted together to Article 52 of the amendment. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11093	Mr. Minister, even though the Government gave the answer, or you, that this was resolved by the Law on Community Works, we Serbian radicals believe that and that this provision we have proposed to Article 52, in fact by a new position, was also a place in this law. It is that we wanted, and so it is a new position – in order to ensure the treatment of waste water to the extent established by this law, so we are calling for this law, the unit of local self-government is obliged to invest annually in the construction, reconstruction and maintenance of waste water treatment facilities with accompanying devices to the level of plans to build wastewater treatment facilities for at least 2,000 inhabitants. This is again a complex topic, water treatment, which we haven't been able to talk about and connect to agriculture and rural development, because that and how it relates. We had, unfortunately, huge floods, but remember, since you are from the AP Vojvodina, in 2012 unremembered droughts in the cereals fields of Vojvodina. If we were to invest, that is, if the state, again not to mention China and other countries so developed today, that these new plants that are being produced in the world, and today you have said several times – we are in the 21st century and in 2016, but let's learn from friends of the Chinese, that this very water that will be cleaned up by these plants in rural areas is used for irrigation. This was the goal of submitting this amendment, and I am sorry because it has absolutely nothing to do with it, because from the beginning to the end of this law and with the laws in the field of environmental, health, environmental protection, and also with the communal activities, I will intertwine both the concepts and individual members and attitudes, so that we considered, and even when you didn't, this was an ideal opportunity to start this topic and to give a suggestion that was certainly contained in our programme for agricultural development and for environmental protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11094	Thank you. The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11095	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In order to clarify only, in your proposal for an amendment, a new position is added – in order to ensure waste water treatment to the extent established by this law, the local self-government unit is required to invest annually. If we had a sanction, then that duty would have some repressive measure somewhere in the event of failure to comply with this obligation. The Law on municipal activities has established obligations, but sanctions are also given. It's the only reason why this amendment has not been accepted, because in second place this matter has already been completely processed. I absolutely agree that the issue of building wastewater treatment facilities will be one of the central topics in our perspective. If we get to the point where we can use these purified wastewaters for irrigation systems, then we've done a big thing. Such experiences exist in many places in the world, but unfortunately they require large financial resources, because if they work that way, that means we have to build huge primary irrigation systems, literally in each field to put a meter. That at this point, unfortunately, is not possible, I wish it were, but I hope that one day it will be our reality.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11096	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 53 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Nenad Canak, Nada Lazic and Olena Papuga. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 59 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 59 of the amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Marinika Tepic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 63 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ostoja Mijailovic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 63 of the amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 63rd Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić and Dr. Dragan Vesović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11097	The 65th amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Ostova Mijailovic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Dveri Group together submitted to Article 65 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Katarina Rakić, Milosav Milojevic, Vojislav Vujic, Zoltan Pek, Zarko Micin, Ostoga Mijailović, Djordje Milicevic, Goran Ćirić, Miroslav Aleksic, Ognje Pantović and Mr. Ivan Kostic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. National MP Petar Petrovic submitted to the 79th amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The amendment was submitted by Parliament member Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. National MP Petar Petrovic submitted to the 108th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. National MP Petar Petrovic submitted the amendment to Article 114. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The amendment was submitted by MP Petar Petrovic to Article 116. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The word has Minister Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11098	Dear President, honourable Members of the People, I would like to thank you for the constructive debate we have had under all these laws these days. I think all these proposals, along with the amendments that have been accepted and which you have constructively approached, will contribute to the quality of these laws. I thank you again. Thank you so much for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-15-0.u11099	Thank you, Minister. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Since we have completed the debate on points 1 to 14 and from the 20th to 22nd agenda of this session, I remind you of the provision of Article 87(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, according to which the President of the National Assembly may decide that the day for voting on a bill should be immediately after the examination of the bill has been completed. In accordance with this provision, I set out on 16 December 2016, starting at 11.00 a.m. as Voting Day on all points of the agenda of this sitting on which a debate is concluded, i.e.: Proposal for a candidate for Judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia; Proposal for a Charter of the Charter of the Court of Justice appointed by the President of the Republic; Proposal for a decision on the selection of members of the High Council of Judges of the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice of the Republic of Serbia; Proposal for a Act of the Act on the Law of the Act of the Court of Justice of the Republic of Serbia; Proposal for a decision on the termination of the President of the Court of Justice of Belgrade; Proposal for a decision on the termination of the role of the President of the Court of Fundamental Court of Justice of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the European Union; Proposal for a Decision on the European Parliament's Parliament's draft resolution of Republic of Republic of Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, Thank you very much. I'll see you at the vote tomorrow at 11:00. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 130 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, there are 148 MPs present in the hall and that we have working conditions. We move to a decision on the proposals for acts referred to in points 1 to 14 and from 20 to 22 of the agenda. Proposal for a candidate for judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. I suggest that the National Assembly make the choice of the Constitutional Court judge by public vote, using an electronic voting system. I am putting the motion to vote so that the election of the Constitutional Court judges is carried out by a public vote, using an electronic voting system. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 148, against – no one with abstention – has voted 36 MPs. I find that the Assembly has decided that the choice of the Constitutional Court judges should be made by a public vote, using an electronic voting system. Before moving to the vote, I remind you that according to Article 105 of Rule 2 and point 11) the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia found that the candidate for the Constitutional Court was elected if most of the MPs voted for it. We're moving on to a public vote. I am voting on the motion by the President of the Republic to elect candidate Snezana Markovic from Belgrade as judge of the Constitutional Court. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 144, v – 12, abstention – one, not voted 31 MPs. I find that the Assembly has chosen the majority of the votes of all MPs by selecting Snezana Markovic as judge of the Constitutional Court. I would like to vote on the proposal by the President of the Republic to elect Professor Dr Milan Skulic of Belgrade to judge the Constitutional Court. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 167, the seven, abstentioned - two, did not vote 13 MPs. I find that the National Assembly chose Professor Milan Shkulic as Judge of the Constitutional Court by majority of the votes of all MPs. I am putting on the vote by the motion of the President of the Republic to elect candidate Miroslav Nikolic from Pančev to judge the Constitutional Court. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 143, v – 10, abstention - two, 39 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly chose Miroslav Nikolic as judge of the Constitutional Court by majority of the votes of all MPs. I am putting on the vote by the motion of the President of the Republic to elect candidate Dr Jovan Ciric from Belgrade to judge the Constitutional Court. I conclude the vote and declare that – 168, against – 11, the three abstentions, were not voted by 12 MPs. I find that the National Assembly chose Dr Jovan Djiric as judge of the Constitutional Court by majority of the votes of all MPs. I am putting the motion of the President of the Republic to elect candidate Dušanka Djordjevic from Belgrade to judge the Constitutional Court. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – seven, abstention – two, 180 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not elect Dušanka Djordjevic to judge the Constitutional Court. I am putting on the vote by the motion of the President of the Republic to elect candidate Dr Mijodrag D. Radojevic from Belgrade to judge the Constitutional Court. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – six, abstention – three, 186 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not select Dr Mijodrag D. Radojevic as Judge of the Constitutional Court. I am voting on the motion by the President of the Republic to elect candidate Dr. Vladimir Djuric from Belgrade to judge the Constitutional Court. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – six, abstention – two, 182 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not elect Dr Vladimir Djuric to judge the Constitutional Court. I would like to vote on the motion by the President of the Republic to elect Mr Milan Buric of Belgrade to judge the Constitutional Court. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against - four, abstained - two, voted 190 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not elect Mr Milan Buric to judge the Constitutional Court. On behalf of the National Assembly of the Republic and on behalf of myself, I congratulate the elected judges of the Constitutional Court and wish them much success in their work. We're going to vote on item 2 of the agenda. I propose that the National Assembly, by setting out a list of candidates for the Constitutional Court judges appointed by the President of the Republic, take a public vote - using an electronic voting system. I am voting on the proposal to set out a list of candidates for judges of the Constitutional Court appointed by the President of the Republic by a public vote - using an electronic voting system. I conclude the vote and declare: 43 MPs did not vote for – 148, against – three, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly has decided to establish a list of candidates for the Constitutional Court Judges appointed by the President of the Republic by a public vote - using an electronic voting system. I now put to the vote the motion for a list of candidates for the Constitutional Court judges appointed by the President of the Republic. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 146, v – 12, with abstention – two, 36 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has established a list of candidates for the Constitutional Court judges appointed by the President of the Republic. Now we move on to the decision on points 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11 of the agenda. I put to the vote a motion for a decision on the election of a member of the High Council of the Court of Justice of the Court of Appeals, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 148, against – nine, abstention – one, 39 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to office as judges, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 154, v – seven, abstention – one, 35 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the motion for a decision to suspend the office of President of the Chamber of Commerce in Belgrade, as a whole. I conclude the vote and declare: 43 MPs did not vote for – 148, against – five, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the termination of the office of the President of the General Court in Kruševec, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 147, v – six, abstention – one, no 42 MPs voted. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote a motion for a decision on the termination of the position of President of the Criminal Court in Loznica, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 148, against – three, abstention – one, 44 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of the Parliamentary Committee on Stabilisation and Association, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 155, against – one, abstention – two, 38 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision establishing the composition of the Permanent Delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: 37 MPs did not vote for – 157 against – one, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the draft decision in principle by a majority of the votes of all MPs. Just one moment. I would like Ambassador Alexander Martinovic to come to me and you, George. We have one amendment. I ask the Ambassador to Nemaj Sarovic, who approached the table without the presidency's permission, to step aside. Please, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, ask permission to approach the table. I give you a warning about this behavior. (Sasa Radulovic: And what are you agreeing on? I'd like to continue my work. I'd like to ask Ambassador Nemanja Sarovic, no harm to the Rules of Procedure in the vote. I'd like you not to yell. (Jovo Ostojić: Undo the warning! We can talk about it, but we can't talk about rude behavior. (Jovo Ostojić: Undo the warning! ) I ask the MPs to allow us to continue the voting process, especially MPs who think parliament is a circus and entertainment, not a serious job. And I think this is a serious job. (Saša Radulovic: Puppet Theatre.) ) It is your opinion that parliament is a puppet theater and that your voters sent you here as a doll. (Saša Radulovic: The citizens are watching you. And you. (Saša Radulovic: The citizens are watching and listening to you. I like what you're insulting me for, because it's a picture of you, not a picture of me. (Saša Radulovic: No one insults you. Turn on the bells. Wait until this act of aggression is over. It never lasts long. At the point, the amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Diana Vukomanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. (Sasa Radulovic: What about the law in principle? I'll pretend I didn't hear this, because it's about you. You don't know what we're voting on. (Sasa Radulovic: You don't know what the law is either. It's not the law. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, with abstentions, voted 183 MPs for – 12 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I now put to the vote the Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 150, against – two abstentions – two, the vote was not taken by 41 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the SPS Parliamentary Group, with a correction of 9 December 2016, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 150, v – two, abstention – one, the 43 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the SNS Parliamentary Group, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 152, v – one, abstention – one, the 42 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. Point 12 of the agenda. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Agricultural and Rural Development Act, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 147, v - nine, abstention - one, there was no vote by 39 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. National MP Zoran Zivkovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – one, the abstentioned – there is no vote, there is no vote of 175 Members of the people. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The LSV-Green Party Group submitted to the amendment to Article 3. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 184 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote of 178 MPs for -14, against - none of the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote of 178 MPs for -14, against - none of the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Five MPs from the LSV-Green Group submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, with abstentions, voted 183 MPs for – 10 against. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Parliamentarians Dejan Sulkic, Milan Lapčević and Gorica Gajic together submitted the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -13, against – two abstentions – there is no vote, there is no vote of 178 Members of the people. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The MP group LSV-Green Party submitted the amendment to Article 5. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 6th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Milija Miletic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against one, abstained, voted 190 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The LSV-Green Party Group submitted to the 6th Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 6th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Radoslav Milojic and the Parliamentary Group Democratic Party. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—18, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no votes for – 17 against – two abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The Social Democratic Party, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for – 20, against – no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Nenad Christmas. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Šulkic, Milan Lapčević and Gorica Gajic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Šulkic, Milan Lapčević and Gorica Gajic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The LSV-Green Party Group submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 9th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and the Democratic Party parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: the vote was – 11, against – no one, with abstention – has voted, has voted 180 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Radoslav Milojic submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote – 16, against – one, with abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Sulkic, Milan Lapčević and Gorica Gajic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote – 19 against – with abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote – 23 against – with abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Radoslav Milojic submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote – 13 against – with abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. 11 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote – 16, against – with abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Šulkic, Milan Lapčević and Gorica Gajic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote – 8, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I find that no amendment has been accepted. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party National Movement of Serbia submitted to the 11th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote – 7 against – with the abstentions – there is no vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 11th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote – 22, against – there is no abstention. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote – 14, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 11th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote – 25 against – with abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Agriculture and Rural Development, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for the vote – 145, against – 16, the abstention – one, did not vote 30. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Agricultural and Rural Development Act. I put to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: the vote was – 146, against – 15, with abstention – one, did not vote 30. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milija Miletic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote – 14, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote – 20 against – with abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 2 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Milija Miletic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote – six, against them – there are no abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Milija Miletic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no vote for it—seven against—there are no abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Radoslav Milojic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for the vote – 10, against – two, with abstention – one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. 11 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention to vote—13 against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Milojic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote, seven against, three abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. 11 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 5th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention to vote—12, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Milojic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote – 14, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I find that no amendment has been accepted. 11 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention to vote—13 against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Lapčević. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no vote for it—seven against—there are no abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 7th of the amendment, the Devere MP group submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Sulkic and Gorica Gajic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote - five, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Miladin Ševarlic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote – 10, against – there are no abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Sulkic, Milan Lapčević and Gorica Gajic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote - nine, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I find that no amendment has been accepted. The Social Democratic Party, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted a parliamentary group to the 9th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted to Article 9 by the MP, Prof. Miladin Ševarlic, of the People's Parliament. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was submitted by the Dveri parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 13 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Social Democratic Party, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted a parliamentary group to the 10th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Šulkic, Milan Lapčević and Gorica Gajic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was filed by the People's MP Nenad Christmas. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 13 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was submitted by the Social Democrats League MP Vojvodina-Green Party. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević, Gorica Gajic and Dejan Sulkic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was filed by the People's MP Nenad Christmas. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 12th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no three, no two, no abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Milojic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, against – no one, abstentioned – one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 14 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Social Democratic Party, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted a parliamentary group to the 12th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Šulkic, Milan Lapčević and Gorica Gajic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by the Devere parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 12 of the amendment, the People's MP, Nenad Christmas, submitted to the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 14 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The parliamentary group Social Democratic Party, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted the 13th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment was submitted by the Social Democrats League MP Vojvodina-Green Party. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic, to Article 13. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no votes for – 13 against – two abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment with correction was filed by MP Nenad Christmas. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 14th Amendment with correction was filed by MP Nenad Christmas. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 14 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr Ivan Kostic submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Dejan Sulkic, Milan Lapčević and Gorica Gajic together submitted the 15th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The parliamentary group Social Democratic Party, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted an amendment to Article 15. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 13 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted to the 16th Amendment by MP Nenad Christmas. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Radoslav Milojic submitted to the 18th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 14 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 18th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for – 20, against – no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 141 versus – 13, abstention – one, 32 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Water Act, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 142, v – one, abstention – one, did not vote 41 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. National MP Branka Stamenkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The People's MP Goran Chabradi submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Branko Stamenkovic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 5th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—16 against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Nenad Canak, Nada Lazic and Olena Papuga. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic and Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 19, against – no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Obradovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Chabradi. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by the Devere parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 8th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Tomislav Ljubenović and Vjerica Radet. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 22, against – no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 9th Amendment was submitted by the Dveri parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MPs Marko Milenkovic and Natasa Jovanovic submitted the 9th amendment together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 21 against – none. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Chabradi. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Chabradi. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Chabradi. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 13th Amendment was submitted by the Dveri parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 14th Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Chabradi. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Obradovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Sreto Peric and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 19, against – no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—16 against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Marinika Tepic submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sreto Peric and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—18, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MPs Natasa Jovanovic and Dubravko Bojic submitted together to the 33rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 21 against – none. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Branko Stamenkovic submitted to the 35th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 13 against – none. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MPs Nenad Canak, Nada Lazic and Olena Papuga submitted to the 35th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Branko Stamenkovic submitted to the 36th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 13 against – none. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The People's MPs Nenad Canak, Nada Lazic and Olena Papuga submitted together to Article 37 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 38th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Nenad Canak, Nada Lazic and Olena Papuga. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 41st Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Chabradi. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 42nd amendment, with a correction, were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Jovo Ostojic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 21 against – none. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The People's MPs Nenad Canak, Nada Lazic and Olena Papuga submitted to the 42nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 50th Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Chabradi. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MPs Nenad Canak, Nada Lazic and Olena Papuga submitted to the 51st Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Natasa Jovanovic and Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić submitted together to the 52nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 21 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Nada Lazic and Olena Papuga submitted together to the 57th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A member of the 59th amendment was submitted by the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marinika Tepic submitted to the 59th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 13 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 63rd Amendment was submitted by the Dveri parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 65th Amendment was submitted by the Devere parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Petar Petrovic submitted to the 108th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Petar Petrovic submitted the amendment to Article 114. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Petar Petrovic to Article 116. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Water Act, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 142, v – two, abstention – one, 39 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Water Act. Now we move to a decision on items 20, 21 and 22 of the agenda. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the United Nations on the Central Office of the Trans-European Railway Project in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 148, against – no one, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming a multilateral agreement on commercial rights in the emergency air transport in Europe, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 148, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 34 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China on the mutual abolition of visas for holders of ordinary passports, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. Dear MPs, working on the agenda points we have left will continue on Tuesday after the address of the President of the Republic of Greece, at 10.00 hours. I ask that committees who are in charge finish their part of the job and get their opinions.
