ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-07-0.u2568	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find the sitting to be attended by 110 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 143 MPs are present in the hall and we have working conditions. I would like to inform you that today they have reported that they have been prevented from attending the sittings of the following MPs: Konstantin Arsenović, Branko Ružic, Vladimir Marinkovic, Miladin Ševarlic and Borisav Kovacevic. Given that the National Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, we are moving to a decision. We move to the 1st item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law amending the law on the financing of local self-government I am putting the draft law amending the Law on the financing of local self-government in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 138, against – 28, the abstentions – there are no, three MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Lawmakers Bosko Obradovic, Zoran Zivkovic, combined Radoslav Milojic and Dejan Nikolic and five MPs of the Social Democratic Break Group, the National Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 27, against – two, abstention – three, there was no vote of 170 Members of the people. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 26, two, abstentions – two, the Members of the people did not vote. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapcevic and Dejan Sulkic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 28, v – one, abstention – one, 145 MPs did not vote. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the 1st Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and say, "No one, the abstentioned one, has voted for – 26 against – 149 MPs. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Ciric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted 148 MPs for – 28, against. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 30, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 147 MPs. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. The First Amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Natasa Vukkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: No one, the abstentioned, voted for – 31, against – 146 MPs. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 1st Amendment, with correction, were jointly submitted by MPs Veroljub Stevanovic, Tomislav Zigmanov and Dusan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 30, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 147 MPs. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. National MP Goran Jesic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and say, "No one, the abstentioned one, voted for – 26 against – 151 MPs did not vote. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. The First Amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 34, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 143 MPs. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 1st amendment, with correction, were jointly submitted by MPs Maja Vidinovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Dragoljub Micunovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted 145 MPs for – 32. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. The First Amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 27, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 150 MPs. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. National MPs Nenad Canak, Marinika Tepic, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, abstentioned, voted in favour of – 21, three, 153 MPs. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. The First Amendment, with a correction, was filed by MP Nenad Christmas. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 148 MPs for – 30. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. On the 1st amendment, with a correction, was filed by the People's MP, Ljubka Mihajlovska. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 26, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 152 MPs. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. The First Amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Jovan Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 27, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 151 people's messengers. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. The First Amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 148 MPs for – 30. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. The 2nd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Bosko Obradovic, Zoran Zivkovic, together with Radoslav Milojic and Dejan Nikolic and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the National Movement of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 147 MPs for – 31 against. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the financing of local self-government, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 143, v – 33, abstention - one, not one MP voted. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the Law on the financing of local self-government. As I now move on to the decision-making decision-making decision-making (points 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12 of the agenda), I remind you that we need most votes from all MPs. Otherwise, these proposals are only voted in general. Given that, we're moving on to a decision. Point two. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of a deputy public prosecutor, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 149, v – 16, abstention - one, the 11 MP did not vote. I find that by the majority of the votes of all the MPs, the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of judges who have been elected for the first time in office since 16 March 2016, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 148, against – 16, the abstentioned - two, 10 MPs did not vote. I find that by the majority of the votes of all the MPs, the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of judges who have been elected for the first time in office since 4 April 2016, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 148, against – 16, the abstentioned - no, 12 MPs did not vote. I find that by the majority of the votes of all the MPs, the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of judges who have been elected for the first time in office since 24 June 2016, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 148, against – 16, the abstentioned - no, 12 MPs did not vote. I find that by the majority of the votes of all the MPs, the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of judges who have been elected for the first time in office since 29 July 2016, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 149, v – 16, the abstentioned - no, 11 MPs did not vote. I find that by the majority of the votes of all the MPs, the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to the judge's office since 19 September 2016 in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 149, v – 16, the abstentioned - no, 11 MPs did not vote. I find that by the majority of the votes of all the MPs, the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of the Parliamentary Committee on Stabilisation and Association, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 171 against – no one, with abstentions, voted five MPs. I find that by the majority of the votes of all the MPs, the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision. I put to the vote the motion for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Dver parliamentary group, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 169, against – one, with abstention – no, six MPs did not vote. I find that by the majority of the votes of all the MPs, the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 160, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, 17 MPs did not vote. I find that by the majority of the votes of all the MPs, the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 161 versus – one, the abstentioned - no, 15 MPs did not vote. I find that by the majority of the votes of all the MPs, the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the parliamentary group Liberal Democratic Party – SDA Sandzak, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for -162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has adopted the motion for a decision. We're moving on to Rules of Procedure's injuries. National MP Goran Ciric, at a session on 4 October, at 18 hours and 30 minutes, pointed to a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Please decide whether or not the said Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned one, voted 151 people's messenger for -25 against. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Goran Ciric, at a session on 6 October, at 20 hours and 50 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure. Please decide whether or not the said Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted for -23 against - 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Balša Bozovic, at a session on 6 October, at 22 hours and 46 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure. Please decide whether or not the said Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one who is abstentioned has voted for -25 against - 148 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Thank you for your cooperation. I'll see you Tuesday.
