ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4889	Dear colleagues, Madam President, I would like to, perhaps it is unusual for me to begin with the commendation, with a mild commendation, of the MUP on the urgency of answering my previous question. I had two questions for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and both answers came quickly, expeditionively, and that was commendable, in contrast to, say, questions addressed to the Foreign Ministry, which were not about submitting an initiative to the UN Security Council, regarding the Trepce case and the attempted kidnapping of the property of Trepce, which I did not get an answer to. Two answers came in here. One was purely formal, the other was relatively exhausted and an attempt to defend himself, or at least explain the role of Prime Minister Vukic's authority and statements regarding the murder of a fan leader. Secondly, the question, otherwise I take it to the knowledge and I no longer insist on it, but the second question concerning General Bratislava Dikic's role in Montenegro and his arrest, I received no answer, except for one routine and optional formulation. I would pray and wish that on this matter, except that the Ministry takes measures and monitors the situation, that if we can get a more exhaustive answer. To this I am subject to my question today, unfortunately to the same address, means the MUP and the Prime Minister's cabinet, or Alexander Vukic, about this attempt, or what to call it, an incident in the Lambs, or an alleged, or a real, assassination attempt on Prime Minister Vukic, which has caused a huge public disturbance, which has alerted the spirits, and which, I think, requires an exhaustive response, perhaps even here in the tide, but in any case I would like to be informed as a national MP, at least as one central, at least as one central, at least as one central tabloid. So, I think as MPs in the National Assembly, we have the right regardless of all these formulas the type of investigation is under way, in the interest of the investigation we can't give any more information. If every tabloid, if every newspaper in Serbia, and I here have all the leaves of the last few days, can speculate whether it was an evil attack, whether the bombs should be dropped, whether it was an armored armored vehicle, whether it was a coffin, or a buried coffin, or a trunk of a car, then I guess I say, and we as the MPs, and I individually, at the end of the day, have the right to at least so much information. With that in mind, I would ask, I would draw attention to the irresponsible statements of a large number of government officials, particularly the government, especially the minister, who used this case for an additional portion, or I would say euphoria, an advocacy or accentuated concern for the prime minister, which was not in line with the statements of the Prime Minister himself, or Prime Minister Alexander Vukic, who said he had no information, that he could not say anything on the subject. By contrast, his ministers raced, so they literally raced to declare the assassination case and to point their finger at who was guilty, and to speculate on the terrible consequences ahead of Serbia, if it turns out to be true. I ask the prime minister, and all of us here, are the ministers concerned, aware of the consequences of their statements, for example, when the interior minister said that the prime minister is in a safe place, in a secure location. This formulation is appropriate to the state of war. It's a formulation that was used after 9/11 when President Bush was prone to a secure location when it was not known whether a world war or a nuclear attack began. Such a statement is inappropriate by government officials, therefore, the interior minister, that it is used for the still unexplored incident in the Lambs. So I would also ask personally Mr. Prime Minister if he is aware of how much such statements harm him personally, and the reputation of his government, and more importantly, and most importantly for us here, the damage to the state of Serbia abroad, because this seems to be a country where every moment the state strikes and assassinations against the representatives of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4890	Thank you. The People's Messenger Nenad Milic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4891	Thank you. Madam President, colleagues and colleagues, I have a question for you, I think, Madam President. It is in a similar tone as the previous speaker asked a question. Namely, I've been given a few answers that I've asked since this conference works, so I've got two answers. I got an answer from the M.O.P., so I'll remind you briefly. So I asked the MUP what happened on Herzegovina Street. Is some kind of disciplinary procedure initiated, and if not, why isn't it done? I received an answer that no disciplinary proceedings were initiated and that it was awaiting the conclusion of an investigation conducted by the D.A. I have many objections to the content of this answer, but formally this is the answer to the question I asked. But why am I pointing this out? Because of the second answer I received from the Republic Prosecutor to the question concerning the event a year ago, I will quote from a stenogram – was there destabilising the state and if there was destabilising the constitutional order, what did the prosecution do? Did he file criminal charges against which persons and at what stage are these criminal charges? The prosecutor's answer to the question is that the more public prosecutor's office has made a solution against Damir Dragic and Dragan J. Vukevic following the pre-criminal procedure that rejects the said criminal complaint. It is very clear that I did not ask the prosecution anything about the application of Kornica against Vucicevic, nor was I interested in it. I was interested in those who led the prosecution to just do, to remind, the prosecution then said it would prevent the destabilization of the state by filing criminal charges against the responsible persons, so my question was that. This same question, I'll remind you again, it's not the first time I've asked it, I've also asked it at the Justice Committee session, where the report on the work of the prosecutor for 2015 has been discussed, and I didn't get any answers here, and this time, at least as far as I'm concerned, I've got an offensive answer. Therefore, my question to you, first of all, as speaker of Parliament, can you protect in the right way, not in those of our business games, the dignity of this Parliament, by ensuring that the competent authorities answer the questions to the MPs? I don't think I'm here, not me or my parliamentary group, that our dignity has been injured, but the dignity of the entire parliament and the prosecutor's relationship to parliament. The prosecutor is obliged to answer the question the MP asks him. To be honest, I have no idea what you can do, except to advocate your authority, of course, if you agree with me, but I think it's important, and so did colleague Vukadinovic, and I believe that other colleagues have similar experiences, that the competent authorities respond to the MPs in the right way, and not to answer the question they're not asked, avoiding the right question, no matter how much they may not like to answer that question. I'm personally convinced that the answer to this question is the prosecution's interest. It is not any HIR LDP to ask this question, but I think it will contribute to the prosecution and prosecutors accomplish their, Constitution and laws on guaranteed, independence and avoid being abused in day-to-day political games, between the two tabloids in this case. So, except for you, I'm going to repeat this question to the prosecutor, just in case -- has there been a destabilision of the constitutional order, have criminal charges been filed against which persons and at what stage are these criminal charges? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4892	The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4893	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I would at first express my satisfaction in my name and in the name of the MP's group of NS, where I asked the Minister of Finance for 15 days about the application of the new Rules on Registration and Accounting of VAT, or the value added tax, which was due to take effect on 1 January 2017 and which is quite rigid, so that I do not now repeat the whole story, and I received a notice from the Ministry of Finance that this would be postponed for 1 January 2018, and that in the meantime we will have amendments and additions to the law here, so that, once again, I should use that expression, a rigid rule that should have entered into force on 1 January 2018, which would bring additional costs to all legal persons at Serbia level, will not enter into force, and that is good news. What is the second thing I wanted to do specifically, seven days ago I asked from this place the question and the health minister Mr. Loncar about the shift of the director of the Health Centre in Arangelovac, Dr. Goran Blagojevic, and I still haven't received any answers. Today, I have to extend this question, because what seven days ago was just speculation or conjecture who would succeed in that place, Dr. Goran Blagojevic, unfortunately, today proved to be true information. I must repeat, and after all this, to ask the Minister of Health, Mr. Loncher, to send me a copy of the inspection log that was sent to the Health Center in Arangelovac, means to send me a copy of it so that we can clearly see what the sin of the previous director is. Then, what is interesting, on the day that I asked a parliamentary question, in the evening of public service, on national television, the minister said that instead of the appointed directors in those places would come younger, energetic people who would be able to bring a lot to these hospitals or health centres. What is the example of us in the Central Shumadiya and the Arangelovac Health Center, which covers the Arangelovac and Topola, here is only briefly. Instead of Dr Goran Blagojevic, who was a prominent surgeon, came V.D. Director of Ms. Nina Jeličić, who is 62 years old, who is a retired woman who is the wife of the former director of the Health Centre, who was replaced during Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic on 1 March 2013, because he left the same Health Centre minus one million euros. What is even more interesting to me, and what I particularly underline to a respected minister is the fact that Dr Jelicic, who was appointed V.D. Director of the Health Center, and owner of a private pharmacy. I'm asking if it's a conflict of interest, and did the Ministry have any information on incompatibility of functions, that you're the Director of the Health Center within which you have your pharmacy and that you own a private pharmacy within a few hundred yards of the Health Center itself, and does that make any sense at all? For this reason, once again on behalf of and on behalf of the MP group of NS, we ask for a clear and precise copy of the records of this inspection surveillance to be provided, we ask that we be clearly told what were the sins of the previous director, why was it removed and who proposed and on whose behalf Dr Ninu Jeličić, who was appointed V.d. Director and whether it is a young, perspective, which will be able to run one Health Center. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4894	The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4895	The Honorable President, the Honorable fellow Members of the People, helps all. What should certainly be the first question is a question for Mr. Sarcevic's Minister of Education. What happened to his recommendation for students of the Bologna who were supposed to get an extension of the study, and they actually got what we got here and we claimed they were going to get, and that's requisition and new, let's say, the costs they had to bear for it. Obviously, the University of Belgrade refused in the highest percentage to implement Minister Sarcevic's recommendation, so we are actually interested in how the ministry will solve this problem, because such a decision was taken jointly on the Assembly's Education Committee and confirmed here at the ceremony, when we discussed this issue, as a promise and practically not a recommendation, but a ministry's task to do so? The second question concerns, still unexposed, spy affairs, that after so many days, we don't know who was betraying state secrets and what foreign intelligence service. I will remind all of you, fellow MPs, and the public in the past functioning of the VSB, when this was done in a much more serious and responsible way. It is the case of the arrest of General Momčel Perisic, then vice-president of the government of the Republic of Serbia, who was arrested on 14 March 2003 at the "Motela Saric", where he gave state secrets to CIA chief John Najbor. So that's when we knew who the state secrets were handed to and who was telling the state secrets from the state's apparatus. We don't know that today, so many days after another reality show of yours, which you've staged with so-called. A spy affair. So either you know who's been arrested and this guy's been prosecuted and processed or it's one of your reality fiction shows that never really happened. That's why I'm asking the question of both the police minister and the minister of justice, who is the epilogue of this case with General Perisic's arrest at the time, so we can even get to these epilogues of new cases? When will the Penal Code be returned to the penalty for treason and high treason, which was eventually expelled from the Penal Code? The next issue concerns the Ministry of Economy and concerns the amount of subsidy for the British IT company Endava. In fact, we ask the question exactly what is the amount of the subsidy you provided for Endava, and in what period is it scheduled to be realised? Is it based on Article 11. The Government State Aid Control Act, before granting any subsidy, submitted its application to the State Aid Control Commission and requested an appropriate solution for such a subsidy to make sense? Why would I ask that? Because I ask the Minister of Economy are you familiar with the reactions of a number of IT professionals and associations that have responded to this extremely harmful subsidy, which is actually destroying competition on the labour market in Serbia? What's going to be the epilogue of all this? The epilogue will be that this subsidy will not create new jobs, but the foreign company will buy the best professionals from domestic companies. It's just amazing that in one of the most important domestic industries, where we record export growth, where we have a huge perspective, you subsidize the side of the company that comes to our market and thus practically destroys competition and in every other way you question the work of domestic companies. Of course, there are also questions for the Commission for State Aid Control – did any application by the Government come in at all, and did they plead on this issue? Our IT sector's problems are completely different. We don't need foreign companies to develop us in this sphere, but we have an insufficient number of qualified IT professionals, because a thousand are coming from college annually, and the demand is for tens and tens of thousands. Let's just say, that's what the funds were supposed to be invested in. Of course, one very important question, we started the theme of Bear, and now we're starting the subject of the Bujanovec. In 2009, then 2011, the government of the Republic of Serbia received a petition from non-Albanian citizens from the municipality of Bujanovac, seeking an extraordinary census in the Bujanovac municipality, demanding an audit of the polling lists in the Bujanovac municipality, as there is an increase in the number of Albanian population there every subsequent vote, although their representatives claim that a large number of Albanians have moved out. Then, we are looking for a check-in of the Albanian residence in this municipality and after the end of all this, the organisation of an extraordinary local election. What's the big deal? The problem is that the distribution of functions in public local institutions is absolutely at the expense of Serbs living in this municipality, which is the Albanian toponyms in the city of Bujanovac and that in every other way we have a large eviction of Serbs and non-Albanians from the Bujanovac municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4896	Thank you. The word is by MP Veroljub Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4897	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is obvious that we are not getting a chance to ask direct questions or questions to the members of the government and to the Prime Minister, so you're packing it nicely, and then we're in a position to ask questions like this, and we're going to do it every Tuesday and every Thursday, hoping that, as members of the Government or as Prime Minister, you'll answer. So I'm giving a question to the Prime Minister. It has been more than two years since the license of the insurance company "Such insurance". The reason was the failure of the technical reserves. At that time, "Such Insurance" had a capacity of 91.8%. Of the 23 insurance companies, four are domestic, far the best results were and it's obvious, if all of this is in mind and looked at. So it was someone else's interest. I have a letter sent by 408 workers "Such Insurance" who lost their job choir of this. Only after two years, and this was done right now, because they agreed with the people who had waited for it to end, however, nothing officially happened. At that time, "Such Insurance", as a serious house that has twice been the country's best insurance house, is now in trouble for nearly 450 people to lose their jobs. Since the letter is addressed to me and to me, I will forward it to the members of the government. After seven months of that year, society was very positive, four million euros were in profits, which is the best result for all insurance companies. At that very moment, two days before the investor came, a large investor from Germany, who wanted to be a majority owner, was withdrawn from the permit, for no reason whatsoever, without any real reason, at the time when it was known that the National Bank of Serbia had signed an international agreement allowing you to have a 10% less charge than the one that is maximum. That's exactly why I, thinking about these people, have to refer questions to the government of the Republic of Serbia. The first question is – why is "such insurance" taken away from work, when all obligations are served on time, absolutely everything, for 23 years of existence? Secondly, why are not all the warning measures applied, and you are able to apply four measures, but immediately the most rigid, therefore, withdrawal of the permit? Third, why has the law been selectively applied, when the most important financial indicators are satisfactory? Fourth, why is a two-day permit withdrawn before entering the society of one of the European and world insurance companies? Of course, it couldn't have been in the sector undetected by financial means? Who didn't like it, and who were the orderers? Fifth, what message was sent to a German investor and to investors at all? Sixth, how many decisions are in line with the government policy of the Republic of Serbia in favour of job creation? So, seven, what's the role in all this of the governor's advisor and governor? One comment that is very special and important and seems to me to be read, so people who have lost their jobs. This memo to you did not earlier come to the request of shareholders who felt that this could be interpreted as some kind of pressure that could produce a counterproduct. We're doing this on our own, because we obviously have nothing left to lose. We all know that withdrawing an individual's license is probably a very profitable job. What individuals? But we ask the question – why did it have to come to this? Our hunger strike, and the hunger strike, it didn't stop. It has now become a way of life with most of us and our family members. I expect that we will get an answer, as well as an answer to the question we will ask on Thursday, concerning the hunger strike of the workers, the flag of INPRO.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4898	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4899	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, last time I asked a question about the STAR project. It is about the projects that were made in the Ministry of Agriculture under the patronage of Saša Dragina and Dusan Petrovic. My question is – is it true that this project is financed from the World Bank and spent between eight and twelve million euros on it? In this regard, I ask the question – is it true that individual employees at the Ministry of Agriculture, I will set an example of Mr. Djakovic's adviser, who was paid at the Ministry of Agriculture, and some other officials who were constantly employed at the Ministry of Agriculture, were setting up grants for themselves from the project, i.e. grants? Are there officials who took 45,000 euros for their associations? Are there officials who received between 9,000 and 35,000 euros as natural persons? How is this justice in the Ministry of Agriculture, or has there ever been a report on the STAR project? With that in mind, it's a particularly interesting Association of Farmers of Vojvodina. So, the informal association of the former regime's party, which was extremely radical about the adoption of a new law on agricultural land in state property, changes and additions. Is it true that the association has twice received funding from the Star Project, so for the first time 45,000 euros, the second time 39,000, all when you add up an 85,000-euro figure and with the help of the peasants from Subotica, who also belong to associations that moved around the party of the former regime, another 25,000? So, the sums that are measured by tens and hundreds of thousands of euros are shared. In this regard, we want to know – did this have anything to do with political resemblance? Whether civil servants at the Ministry of Agriculture have the right to apply for funds as individuals or as representatives of the association because the World Bank loan will have to be returned to citizens, as they say, someday. Accordingly, and this project, I ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia, if my allegations are correct, what will be done on this issue, given that among the lucky winners are some colleagues who are here, who as opposition MPs sell us fineness, sell morals, and have them on the Star project list according to my information, so the representatives of the Association of Agricultural Economists received 58,000 euros at the time, in 2011 or 2012, and as an individual, they received a sum of more than 4,500 euros. So, it's all about 62,500 euros, and I think that we, as MPs and citizens who are funding and who are going to repay the loan that is financed by the STAR project, have the right to know where some of the money is intended for agriculture. With this in mind, I want to know how many associations that received money are based in Belgrade, and how many associations are based outside Belgrade, or in rural areas, since the loan was intended for rural development, because there are some agro networks in Belgrade, etc. The villagers from the city showed up, a rural association from the city, and I think that we, as MPs, have to go out once before the citizens, especially in front of the rural population, with data that are accurate, since, apart from the Association of Farmers of Vojvodina, which was closely tied to the DS about those protests concerning the adoption of the Agricultural Land Act, no other association of farmers received any funds, but the funds were shared with officials and their associations that were registered in the meantime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4900	Vojislav Seselj, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4901	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have three questions for Prime Minister Vukic and the Serbian Government in general. Why did the Serbian government not refer diplomatic channels to a harsh demarch over the illegal and reckless arrest of 20 citizens of the Republic of Serbia in Montenegro? How arbitrary this arrest was, testifying and the fact that six people were immediately released, that 11 people were released yesterday for terrorism, so they kept only criminal association, and still three people are being prosecuted on suspicion of being terrorists. One of them is our retired police general. This is more reason for Serbia to react sharply. It seems to me that the policy of the Serbian government is to defend Milo Djukanovic by all means to whom the days have been numbered, not to defend our citizens who have been arrested innocently. So there's a member of the SRS, Branka Milic, a 61-year-old woman, and they found out she wasn't a terrorist, so what kind of criminal association is that? Anyone who says anything against Milo Djukanovic turns out to be a criminal. They can criminally team up in Serbia, not during an ad hoc trip to Montenegro. None of them wanted to stay in Montenegro for a long time. The second sharp demarch, the government had to refer the U.S. government to the bahanals at the US Embassy. It is not allowed for Prime Minister Vukic to comment on the event with impatience, as if it were about him. Did they say "Wolf Wolf" or Wolf this, or Wolf that, or yellow ducks and what I know. He doesn't matter at all in this case as an individual. Maybe it was a regular briefing for US Embassy officials in Belgrade. Maybe those briefings are holding up every day, that's their internal thing, because there's a clause of exteriority of the embassy space. However, in this case, there were many citizens of the Republic of Serbia, so the briefing was performed before them. Well, he also referred to them, and some of them were thrilled, which means that America is leading strong propaganda. And that's why a sharp demarch had to be directed. Imagine someone coming to mind at the Serbian Embassy in Washington, D.C., holding something similar to that. They'd lock us both up at the embassy and banish all diplomatic personnel. The third question is - when will the Government of the Republic of Serbia submit a proposal to the National Assembly to open a debate on the membership of the Republic of Serbia in the Euro-Asian Economic Union, or the Euro-Asian Union, what is the popular name? On the Russian side, there is an initiative, the Eurasian Union is ready to accept us, it needs Belgrade's consent. Apparently, the government hesitates. The government is also afraid in this case that it is not against the Americans and the EU, and the more the government suffers from reactions from the Americans and the EU, the worse they treat Serbia. The humiliations are getting bigger and bigger.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4902	Thank you. Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4903	Dear citizens, ladies and gentlemen, this is a question for the President of the Assembly. In accordance with Article 45. Law on the National Assembly and Article 107. Rules of Procedure, insults are prohibited at meetings of the National Assembly. Ambassador Martinovic said from the pay phone that I was a "known criminal". Question for the President of the Assembly - is this an insult for the President of the Assembly and why it allows such insults? We need an archaic so we can get an official interpretation so we know how we can ask the question. Second, Article 116. The Rules of Procedure say the provisions apply to other participants in the debate, as regards, say, these insults, so the prime minister said Thursday from the pay phone, saying to me, - Do you know what he did to his driver, this is what the prime minister said, which in six months' time changed five. Do you know how to talk to them? He talked to them the following way, so when the driver tells him – good afternoon, he turns on the phone and tells his secretary, or my secretary, tell this good day next to me. The question is for the president of the assembly, does he think this is an insult and a question of what this has to do with the subject of the agenda, these are issues to the government and the prime minister, Article 106. Rules of Procedure. Question for the prime minister, how did the prime minister find out about these alleged talks? What's my secretary's name? Is the Prime Minister ready to go along with my secretary and those five drivers to a polygraph to check out a new hunting story? I've always had a very good relationship with my secretary, so it would be really interesting for the Prime Minister to answer this. Furthermore, the question for the president of the assembly, in turn at the meeting of the National Assembly, is the old president of the Assembly, the prime minister is just a guest. Why did she ask the guest Thursday, should I let him go? Is that what the prime minister is supposed to do about the order in the National Assembly, and the president of the Assembly is asking the prime minister what to do? Then, I ask the President of the Assembly to explain to us what is meant by approval, and what, under the disdain she introduced as a category at the Constitutional Session of this Assembly? To define these criteria for us, so when, say, the ruling majority applauds and it applauds much longer than we, for example, applauded, that's okay, and when we applaud elsewhere in the prime minister's speech, does it consider it a distraction? And also, this is for disdain where there's a line between the disdain that's allowed between the throw-offs, because we'd like to follow the rules and do what's necessary. Please, the chair also says that it does not reply orally to these questions, Article 287(4) says that you are obliged in writing to answer these questions and not to abuse the presidency's position. The second question was addressed to the prime minister. The Kosovo Assembly made a truly anti-civilisation decision confiscating property, i.e. stockholder rights in Trepca. Shareholders include the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, then General Export in bankruptcy, Progress Belgrade, Jugobanka, MTS Banka, EPS, Danube Insurance, Ratko Mitrovic d.o.o., IMK "14. October", ‘Termoelectrico’, etc. So these are shareholders whose stock rights have been taken. The government's response was that the government annulled the Assembly's decision. This really sounds a little funny knowing that, first of all, the governments cannot annul the Parliament's decisions, and secondly, the government of the Republic of Serbia probably does not recognise the republic of Kosovo and its assembly, so it is really unclear how it has legally annulled this decision. I sent one letter to the European Parliament, to all parliamentarians, to the European Commission and to the European Council and pointed out what happened in Kosovo. I said this decision is not in line with the principles on which the rule of law rests and that it is contrary to all the basic postulates of economic law and anti-civilization. So you can't take away private property. To know that human rights are not being negotiated, and property rights are human rights and they are inalienable and not dependent on political will and current interests. Well, since they are in Kosovo and are working effectively together with the government of the Republic of Kosovo, why didn't they react? When will they react to this kidnapping? The question for the prime minister is – when will the official channels be sent by the demarch, that is to say, to all European institutions to protect property rights in Kosovo? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4904	Thank you. For the question you asked me, did Alexander...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4905	In writing.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4906	You didn't set me up with anything?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4907	In writing to answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4908	Really?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4909	You've been told.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4910	Really?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4911	Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4912	I was so scared. Article 287 doesn't say that...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4913	Position 4. Read it. That's exactly what he's saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4914	Really? Okay. Is everything okay now? Can't we just keep going? Can we continue peacefully or do you need a little more time to calm down and communicate normally? Just say the word, I'm here. We can take a break and whatever, we don't have to go aggressive right now, there's no need. You got it, right? I know I have to be careful. So, just to answer what I can answer you right now, which is that I'm not...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4915	Article 287(4) read. Do you want me to read it to you?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4916	There's no need. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Let him read, we do not know. Will you read it, please? Here, he doesn't know Seselj. Here, I'll give you my word to teach the MPs a little bit. And you don't know, you haven't prepared well? All right, all right. But on a part of the question, I must consult Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4917	I'm telling you, attitude four. – persons referred to in Article 1 shall be obliged to make the requested notification, i.e. an explanation in writing to the MP within 15 days. This is an explicit provision for Article 287(4). In writing, within 15 days, not to abuse the position of the chairman and to do replicas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4918	Okay, it's gonna be okay. Calm down, it's gonna be okay, I just need to run a session. To run a session, I have to talk a little bit. I don't know how to run a meeting with a mime. If you want, I'll turn my head on the other side, but it'll be fine, don't get upset.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4919	I'm not upset.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4920	Take it easy, it'll be fine. First, I'd like to introduce the distinguished guests. Let me welcome, on your behalf and on behalf of you, the students of the FPN University of Belgrade's political department, who entered the O.R. A few moments ago. Thank you for saying hello. Part of the question of MPs, however, I will have to consult with Vice-President Veroljub Arsic, who led the session when a sentence was said, if spoken, that MP Sasa Radulovic is a known criminal, an exact definition. For this, the rest, around the secretary, I really don't know. I'm going to have to make a wide investigation into how to answer you in writing, because I'm not sure that this investigation can only take 15 days, because the issue is very complex and complex. I may also request a 30-day extension, which is also in line with the Rules of Procedure. It's a very complex situation, so I'm going to have to ask for an additional deadline, if it's necessary for the Administrative Board to interpret it. Can I speak, or do I have to remain silent and obey orders? The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4921	Thank you, Your Honor. I would use this right and ask you a question. It is related to the part of the Rules of Procedure which regulates parliamentary issues concerning the current subject, Articles 209, 210 and 211. Rules of Procedure. In our work, we keep saying that this Rules of Procedure is something that we all have to respect. It is often said about who is responsible for the existence of such a Rules of Procedure, democratic or non-democratic, and it is your obligation under Rule 27, and many others, to take care of implementation, to respect this Rules of Procedure. Member of the 209th says this -- the president of the National Assembly, on a proposal from the parliamentary group at least once a month, determines the day when individual ministers in the government will answer parliamentary questions on an ongoing topic. At least once, so it can't be less than once, it can only be more, according to the Rules of Procedure. You, in accordance with this article, have, as far as I have been able to see, three requirements in Parliament's procedure for holding a session with questions to ministers, with the current topic. Two colleagues from the Dvori parliamentary group, or they filed the request, and one of us took it just over 10 days ago. We waited for the month to pass October, expecting these sessions to be held. Unfortunately, she wasn't here. Today is November 1st, it is the first month of a regular session, the first one in this year, and you are not in line with this Rules of Procedure, and you were required to schedule that session. You can't say that replacing it is a substitution of what we had last Thursday, because it's something else. This is Article 205. Rules of Procedure, which regulate the government to ask questions every last Thursday of the month. It's a good thing he's a respected Rules of Procedure. But we think these other members should be respected. That is why my question to you – when will you schedule parliamentary questions regarding the topic at least one of these three topics, and I believe that some other initiatives will appear. The Rules of Procedure also envisioned what the president of the Assembly is doing in a situation where there are several parliamentary demands, requiring several parliamentary groups for different topics. I think it's important that we introduce this practice. If there is a formal request, you must meet it at least once a month. The important thing is that the work at that session is a little different from what we had last Thursday. According to the Rules of Procedure, there is the obligation of ministers, or other persons who answer the questions of MPs, to have their answers lasted three minutes, as long as the question. Then we would come into a situation where several MPs could get involved in the debate, that all parliamentary groups could get involved in the debate, not what we had Thursday, that several parliamentary groups could not come to order and ask questions to the Prime Minister or ministers, but as they wanted, because somehow, interpreting the Rules of Procedure, ministers used the right to be able to answer indefinitely for a long time. Then they responded and spent time and eventually one number of parliamentary groups did not get the right to ask a question. It also created tensions here in the O.R. I don't think that's necessary, especially if we have this opportunity to have these sessions with current topics. I think the topics in the procedure are important for the citizens of Serbia. Our theme is – State measures in the fight against poverty. We have discussed some of this with the Prime Minister and the ministers at the session Thursday, but we think there is much, much more need to discuss this issue and in the extreme line to bring some concrete measures, but at least we should start a debate here in parliament through this House of Parliamentary Issues on a topic of topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4922	Thank you, MP. As for the appointment of the session, it's not all up to me and when I'm able to agree with the members of the government, their terms, when they're in a state or when they don't have any other obligations of nature, and they can be here with us for a few hours, as they were Thursday, I'm sure as a matter of priority, in order, to schedule a session. I can schedule forms for work and take that responsibility off me, and we don't have a session, which is not good. The point is to make a deal, so we can hold a session. The easiest thing for me to do is to make an appointment and say, "I've done mine in the Rules of Procedure." (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Ministers must come.) Yes, that's how the presidents used to do it, and then they deliberately set up those who then made most of them not to come, there's no quorum. I don't want to do it the way you've done it before. So I'm trying to work in a different way. Last Thursday, it was possible to meet, firstly, because we had a meeting in progress in the Rules of Procedure, and secondly, we agreed with both the Prime Minister and the other ministers. So we're not here to twist people's hands, we're here to conduct a dialogue. So as soon as I'm able to make it happen, I'll make the appointment. A very honest answer, I'm not philosophizing anything. (Vojislav Seselj, from the city: Rules of Procedure. There's no harm done to the Rules of Procedure when it comes to questions. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: There is no now? There isn't now. The Administrative Board, I apologize, may be able to begin a procedure for amending the Rules of Procedure, because there are also many abuses of the Rules of Procedure, in every sense of the word, but some MPs are abusers. So we might be able to create a stricter form to satisfy the MPs, because this is how we have a series of topics, and then when I schedule that session, then there's going to be a fight over why it's not on the other topic, and it's limited to just once a month, and in other offices in Europe, it's different, it's shorter sessions, it's a little more defined. Are you bored? (Marco Djurisic, from the place: Speak false things. That's good, but that's my answer. So, beating the president on the head we'll determine Mondays from 10.00 to 11.00, the President of Parliament, and we'll get answers when you ask him. I don't know how to answer, but in an honest way. Don't make me make something up right now. And the quorum to give us everyone who's interested, and then we'll avoid what's happened before. As for Thursday's session, that was one of your questions. It may have been unusual for you that the prime minister was here, answering questions extensively because in the period before him while Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic was away from any session in this same Rules of Procedure, which was brought by the Democratic Party and all others. Marco Djurisic throws. There was never one time, so it's weird that not everyone can make it, stats for the sake of it, until the ministers arrive. You see how rude you are, you drove our audience away, what to do. So it was five, no. I'll answer the question. (Enis Imamovic, from the post: Answer in writing. We don't care about that. You really don't care, so go outside, but just so you know, MPs are filming videos... (Ennis Imamovic, from the scene: Great, but we don't want to hear it. )......................................................................................................... about how some MPs don't sit here at work. I'd like some courtesy, please. (Enis Imamovic, from the place: I am decent. If you're not interested, you shut your ears, because it's interested in the MPs, so the others that are in most... (Enis Imamovic, from the post: Answer in writing. This is terrible what you're doing. Now we have to be... () While I was your head of Parliament, you were fine with it, and now it bothers you when you decide and are not admitted to the ruling majority. Don't say that. So, the public is doing, since it's not all that an MP would ask a question, and he doesn't want an answer, there are MPs who want an answer. Five MPs from the opposition's parliamentary groups asked a question Thursday and four MPs from parliamentary groups supporting the government of the Republic of Serbia. I'll answer you in writing for everything else, if you like, and a few more, but I don't know what, because you don't want to hear it. Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4923	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at one of the last sessions, I asked the State Department a parliamentary question, i.e. the authorities of the ministry, and in connection with abuses in a Belgrade municipality. It is the Vračar municipality, which is the municipality from which the initiative for the replacement of Mr Radulovic came, but it is not a topic now. Therefore, the topic is to investigate the illegal, harmful and unconscious business of the Public Business Office for the Management of Business Space, so Vračar's business space. I got an answer a few days ago from the minister. The response states that police officers of the Belgrade Police Administration are acting on a request to collect the necessary notifications from the Senior Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade regarding issuing checks in business premises of several city municipalities, including the Vračar municipality. Since the checks under that case are still pending, the competent prosecution will be informed after the end of the same case in order to make a public prosecutorial decision. So, I commend the actual efficiency of the interior ministry's work on this issue, but apparently this topic has led to wider interest, given that some media have written about it in recent days. For example, "Evening News" since 20 October of this year, they ask the question – where did 11 restaurants disappear on Vračar? I join the question and ask the question – where did 11 restaurants go? "News" states that the difference between the paper and real ownership of the business space Vračar is as much as 2,381 squares. It has also been found that there is no real estate at nine locations. So Vračar's business space, according to the lists from the end of 2014, but in 2015, did not match the actual and accounting number of the places and squares it has. The former municipal government can partially justify the difference in squares through restitution, so one part of the business space that has been returned to the old owners, so one part can be justified by the collapse or the like, by selling, etc., but the books have left 11 places missing. Eleven locals 641 square feet. How can something go away? My question is – how is it possible that 11 places simply disappear from the books? What kind of magicians were they at the Sorceress? How can they wipe out 11 joints? Based on the documents "News", Vračar municipality has since 1992, so starting in 1992, it has had as many as 726 units. So in squares it's 47,800 squares, and by the end of 2014, that number has fallen to 459 of all units, but in squares it's now 28,000 squares, a little bit more. However, the books include 416 restaurants, as many as 43 restaurants, and the difference is 2,343 square meters, and this trend is followed by 2015. When an annual list was made, therefore, on December 31st, when the calendar 2015 expires, the table view suddenly has a total number of units of as many as 409 squares, size 23,900 squares. Thirty locals were returned to restitution. However, it is under question that nine locations are located at 11 locations. Unlike 2014, they're nowhere to be found, not in any record. Suddenly they disappeared, evaporated. It's about a space located in the Boulevard of Liberation 31, 63, the Boulevard of King Alexander 34 and 106, King Milutin 35, and I'm not counting now. Eleven locals went missing in magic. The magicians managed to wipe out 11 joints. I'm taking this opportunity to further draw attention to this phenomenon, therefore, to this situation for the simple reason it's an unprecedented haughtiness. Unseen pride and abuse of great proportions. Someone's got to be responsible for this. I ask who will be responsible for this phenomenon, and not just political and moral responsibility, but every other, above all criminal responsibility. So, let's send a clear message so the thief doesn't pay off. So anyone who tries to rob state property, the state budget, the municipal budget, must end up in prison. Another interesting piece of information, I will also refer to "Evening news" that speak of Democrats not paying rent for three years at Vrakar. They managed to come into possession of an attractive restaurant in Petrograd Street, which invoices at 155 square square meters, but also of those 155 squares 50 is returned to restitution, and they use over 300 square meters and pay for some ridiculous price and they don't pay that ridiculous price for three years. It's already over 250,000 dinars. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4924	The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4925	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have a complaint under Rule 27. Rules of Procedure regarding Rule 205. Last Thursday, only formally, the obligation to hold part of a session where representatives of parliamentary groups will be able to ask questions to Prime Minister Vukic. But only representatives of the smallest, miniature parliamentary groups came in line. This represents a circumvention of the obligation to implement Article 5. What's the solution? The solution is for Mrs Gojkovic to propose here an interpretation, that these issues can primarily be asked by the heads of those parliamentary groups who went out on their own to vote or represent the largest coalition partner, and not by putting us into the Parliament of the twenty parliamentary groups that alone would achieve nothing in the elections, and they are now serving to prevent you from asking serious questions to Prime Minister Vukic. We demand, as one of the largest parliamentary groups, especially as the main parliamentary group of the opposition, that no one has the right to usurp our right and I think it should be implemented from the next session. This is a flagrant violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4926	Thanks, it's a waste of time. Here, you got a round of applause, and you didn't want that for sure. It's got to be a direct injury. So that's what you had to do before. It's Tuesday. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: You also spoke of it today. ) Yes, I was asked by Ambassador Marko Djurisic. He asked through the question, but the Rules of Procedure are like that. The Democratic Party has brought a bit of an unusual Rules of Procedure, so it has given priority to smaller MPs. (Vojislav Seselj, from the post: It is because we do not have a Rules of Procedure. We have a Rules of Procedure, but I still insist that groups start working or through the Administrative Committee, as you arrange for the heads of Parliament to start working on the Rules of Procedure, to be something different. Those who brought it have the most objections, which is not about you, of course, you weren't physically able to do it. So those who have come have the biggest objections, because they've brought in Pasic, the regulation, and you know what I mean. So, regulations and laws apply only to opponents, and now that the situation has changed, the Rules of Procedure are no good. I agree with you that we should... (Vojislav Seselj, from the post: Nikola Pasic said rules should always be made as if we were in opposition. ) They did not know that about Pasic, but such a Rules of Procedure was brought in. He didn't say that, but good. That's what we're going to do next time, but I say again, because of a number of remarks to start slowly, because it really is given to small parties and to independent MPs who, in the meantime, separate themselves from parliamentary clubs, the advantage, which doesn't make sense. Then there will be objections when we give priority to parties that have a majority, there will be objections again, whatever... (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: You as a prominent and sworn supporter of the Democrats, should alone... I can't do it alone because it's not good for a parliamentary life. All the heads of Parliament's clubs must participate with me, and I will agree with all your solutions. The word is given by MP Branimir Jovanovic, the first speaker on this list. Let Gordana Komic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4927	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen, although the debate is united, I will talk about the Law confirming a framework loan agreement between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia. This will provide eightm euros for the realisation of the urban regeneration project on Dosite Street in Kraljev, from where I come from. In this way, it will be possible to start building new apartments in which owners and users of those objects that were damaged in the 2010 earthquake that hit the King. The earthquake then caused significant damage to the buildings in this part of town. It was a working village built after World War II. There were no anti-sesism building regulations at the time. Given the age of these objects and given their constructive and functional characteristics, it is estimated that the recovery of these objects would be invaluable and very complex. I would like to point out that in the previous three years, the City of Kraljevo has made a great deal of effort to come to the realization of this project, although perhaps the initiative could have been launched earlier, however, the city has shown some seriousness and will participate in the implementation of the project with about five million euros, out of 14 of which is the value of this project. As early as 2013, the City Assembly decided to join the project. That same year, the NS RS approved the Budget Law a project loan from the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe for the Rehabilitation of Earthquake. I will list only some of the steps taken by the City of Kraljevo, or local self-government and will take it to make use of these funds on the basis of loans any more effective. The local self-government ended the exchange of land with the Kraljevo car factory and thus provided a location where new buildings would be built. The value of this land is about a million and a half euros. So far, an idea, architectural, urban solution for the first facility has been completed. Geotechnical and geophysical elaborates have been completed, location conditions have been issued for the construction of the first residential facility. The city also committed to participating in some unforeseeable costs with around 500,000 euros in them. The city will also cover the costs related to project management and should amount to around 400,000 euros, which is intended to set up a project management unit, i.e. to provide adequate personnel, business space and equipment. During the implementation of this project, local self-government will provide about two and a half million euros for the construction of infrastructure in this part of the city, i.e. for road construction, water network, sewerage, waste disposal and wastewater processing. I have listed only some of the steps the city has taken to ensure that this project is successfully implemented and that it points to the importance of passing this law. Thus, the adoption of this law could begin by the spring of next year, no later than the summer of 2017. I'm a process relating to the admission of apartments to the cataster of immovableity, the enrollment of existing apartments is going well. In the preparatory phase there were about 112 apartments, now the number is 324 out of 366 apartments, and we know that this is only one of the conditions for the current tenants to be entitled to a new apartment. The tenants will receive new apartments in principle to replace squares for squares, i.e. they will receive the same area of the apartment. In some cases, housing will also be higher, as standards for construction have changed in the meantime and local self-government is there, that is, after this project itself has come out to meet the users and owners of the apartments and there will be two options available to them. The first option is that they will be able to buy that surplus, i.e. that difference in squares at an advantageous price, and they will also be able to do so in the wars, for a period of 20 years. The second option is that they will be able to rent an additional area, also at a favourable price. The good side of this project is that after the construction of new buildings and after the collapse of old buildings, there would be one space, one location that the city could use very usefully. The rest of the plot is planned to be built, i.e. building for social housing and building a kindergarten. Unfortunately, no pre-negotiations have been signed with the owners of all the apartments damaged in the earthquake, in a number of cases a desert debate has not been concluded, somewhere it is not complete documentation, but I expect these problems to be solved on foot and to be solved in time. The only thing he can worry about right now and what I would appeal to several users and apartment owners is that as soon as they find a compromise with local self-government, they say it doesn't fit the position of the new apartment, so it doesn't get into the expropriation processes that could, but it wouldn't necessarily mean that it would slow down the implementation of the whole project. Realisation of this project would end the last major problem that the earthquake caused the King in 2010. Then, as a journalist, I visited all the areas affected by the earthquake, and I saw all the objects that were damaged at that time. Serbian citizens could see that, too, via television. But I can tell you that around the camera, he could never really carry on how human beings really are and how much of an accident there was in that moment. That's why it's very important that we pass this law, so that these people, after many years, can get a decent space for life. I will also note that in this part of the settlement, damaged by the earthquake, former workers of Magnochroma, wagon factories, as well as several Roma families live. In the past decades, they had a difficult life span, and they saw the transition of the economic system and failed privatisation as very harsh. So, as many as 30 members of families living in this area are users of the Social Work Centre. The sewerage and water network have been running long and old, and none of these current buildings are connected to remote heating. I hope that we will pass this law, that the works will begin as soon as possible and that we will allow the project to be completed within the planned five years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4928	Thank you. Gordana Komic, she's not here. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4929	I would like to thank the President. Dear fellow Members of the people, respected ministers, respected co-workers of your Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in my discussion, I will rely exclusively on the confirmation of the agreement, i.e. the Law confirming an agreement on the establishment of the Western Balkans Fund, with the statute attached. For what? Because in the SPS parliamentary group, the view is that there has been too much politicisation and too much populism in the current course of the debate and in the case of this Agreement. In order for citizens to avoid populist stories and not leave this House a message that is wrong to the citizens, then we need to keep an eye on this Law, which confirms one, such a significant agreement, to narrow it down to its essence. The core objective of the establishment of the Fund is, not only at the view of the SPS and at the point of view, no doubt, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as a proposing, but from the content of the agreement, the essential objective is the limited functioning of the civil sector. And as long as we observe this law through the prism, then we have in mind that this way civil sector will be affirmed through the confirmation of the Fund for the Western Balkans. Finally, this confirms the content of the Agreement, which essentially comes down to several items, which are cultural co-operation, science and education, the exchange of young people and sustainable development. All those who have criticised this law so far, we in the SPS parliamentary group, and I am sure they have a complete coalition structure of government, the vast majority in this assembly, should ask one simple question, should Serbia join such an agreement? No doubt so. The state of Serbia has an obligation to join the conclusion of this agreement for a simple reason, which if we do not join the conclusion of this agreement, then Kosovo would conclude with some other countries. If you conclude it with some other countries, there is a danger that these other countries recognise Kosovo, as a state, which is not our goal, in any case. Therefore, there is one obligation of the Republic of Serbia, as states to join the conclusion of this agreement for two reasons. The first reason is to protect the territory of the Republic of Serbia and its sovereignty, and the second reason is to preserve a political process in which the final status of Kosovo will certainly be defined over a long period of time. Until then, we are obliged to respect what is imposed on us as an obligation, which is to respect agreements in which we will affirm everything that implies on the one hand the protection of Serbia's interest, its territorial integrity and sovereignty, and on the other hand something that supports the political process, the final definition of Kosovo's status. I must, and because of you from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, point out something that has not been indicated in this House so far through various discussions, which is that this agreement must be seen through the prism of Resolution 1244 of the Security Council. Why? Because the management of this resolution gives certain types of guarantees. It is true that on the one hand it narrows down the frameworks for the application of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and if there is an international administration on Kosovo's territory, but on the other hand, thus promoting the democratic way and access to resolving Kosovo's problems and its political status. Again, because of citizens and because of the truth, and not because of the populist stories in this assembly, another fact needs to be highlighted, which no one will doubt, nor can lead to doubt, which is that the Security Council wanted in this resolution 1244 to define the Kosovo issue as a final status. We just have to guard Resolution 1244, as a major liquid, because wherever the Security Council found and recognized that some territory should be defined by its final status, it did. In Resolution 1244, this was not done, which means that it is one species, on the one hand, respecting the Republic of Serbia and its need to protect sovereignty and territorial integrity, and on the other hand, what it implies is the obligation of the Republic of Serbia to engage in the political process of resolving Kosovo and its final status. In this regard, it should be noted in particular and significant note that in the 10th point of the Preamble to Resolution 1244 of the Security Council, the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the then SRJ, and the legal follower of the SRJ is the state of Serbia. If nothing else, then at least we have to keep that in mind. Furthermore, there have been many criticisms here in terms of fus note, starry, etc., and again through populism, again through politicization. We need to be aware of one fact, which is indisputable again, and this is the fact that it is this fuss note, that this star represents a guarantee, that the state has defined itself as a single goal when defining to enter into the conclusion of this agreement, which is that Kosovo cannot be recognised as a state, that Kosovo does not come out of the territory of the Republic of Serbia and that Kosovo as such remains under international administration where in one political process, both the administrative apparatus and the security forces present in Kosovo are developing. It is all a guarantee again for the protection of Serbia's living in Kosovo, on the one hand, on the other hand that the state of Serbia has been insisting from the very beginning, which is that the fight for Kosovo is a struggle to the end, and the fight to the end implies that Serbia will never give up on that territory and that the state of Serbia has an obligation to protect that territory as its territory. What is very important to point out, when we talk about an agreement through the prism of Resolution 1244, is another fact, that the only declaration of Kosovo's independence since 17 February 2008 in a way Resolution 1244 has stepped down. Why? Because, regardless of the various interpretations of international law experts, we have to bear in mind one fact, which is the fact that Resolution 1244 of the Security Council created a kind of legal framework, a kind of legal order structure, where transitional institutions, institutions in the transitional period appear on the one hand, and we have said that this period will in no way be short, and on the other hand to recognise the right of the state of Serbia to exist on the territory of Kosovo, which is undoubtedly true and what the unquestionable facts indicate, not only in northern Kosovo, but in general. In this light, it should also be taken into account the fact that the agreement to be confirmed, not only because it is compatible and that it came out of the multi-city group agreement, but because it gives exactly all those guarantees that are in the spirit of the 1244 resolution guarantee should be accepted. Kosovo with a star and footnote, as explained by Minister Ivica Dacic, is something that implies only a contractual party, i.e. a participant of the agreement, and in no case a legal entity or someone who implies anything that can be undertaken under sovereignty, integrity, independence or state attributes. So we simply have to rule out one such prejudice that such an agreement gives Kosovo any prerogative of the state. That's absolutely not true. Finally, what appears to us in the SPS as also very important, it should also be pointed out that this agreement, with all those objectives and mechanisms of implementing the agreement, with the present bodies to be set up, that this agreement should be seen again through the prism of Resolution 1244. Why? For the simple reason that both Kosovo and its transitional institutions absolutely did not show its state sovereignty. There's no state attribute. Kosovo has a parliament that adopts laws and sublaws, but these laws and sublegal acts cannot in any event experience light days until they are confirmed by the UN special envoy. So monitoring and monitoring, while there is an international administration, is a guarantee for the state of Serbia that Kosovo is not a state and cannot be a state. This is also indicated in one UNMIK regulation of 10 June 1999, under which the legislative and executive authority in Kosovo, including the judiciary administration, is entrusted to UNMIK. So in 1999 there was already a guarantee. Do we now need to throw these guarantees under our feet and say, "Well, no, that is not the case for us?" Absolutely not. As a responsible authority, both the SNS and the SPS have an obligation towards the state, according to citizens, to respect what the liquids of Resolution 1244 are and to take a responsible approach to the conclusion of the agreement that I am now discussing. Due to all of this, the SPS parliamentary group will support the law unconditionally in the voting day and vote in favour of the Law on Confirmation of the Fund for the Western Balkans, and I am convinced that, because of the interest of the state and the citizens of Serbia, all MPs of this parliament should do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4930	Thank you. The word is Alexander Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4931	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and MPs, in my presentation, I would refer briefly to the two laws we are unitedly discussing, which is also an extremely strange phenomenon. At first glance, both loans would work very well, for example, as is the loan with Abu Dhabi, where you have the opportunity to be in debt at significantly lower rates than the current rates at which we pay interest on the eurobonds' emissions. That's absolutely true. But the problem that arises here is that I think we skipped one important thing, and it refers to the very nature of that loan. Are we taking that loan to refinance the previous loans we took in dollars? In dollars now, it's quite reasonable to be in debt, since the dollar is on a relatively high level. Or are we taking this loan to finance Serbia's new debts? Because the math that we've got is that after nine months of the unprecedented good fiscal consolidation in which all the problems are gone, by the end of the year we're going to be exposed to some accounts and we have this very strange coincidence that this total amount of loans we're taking from the Arab Emirates is almost equal to the deficit that we're going to show at the end of the year. So, the key question for which we have in this parliamentary group a skepticial on something that would be a good thing, to refinance existing debts at lower interest, especially because we have enough debt in dollars at higher interest rates, is – is this a new borrowing or is it refinanced old loans? That's the basic problem. And aside from putting in these non-transparent arrangements that we have with the United Arab Emirates, which is one of our additional suspicions, but this is no longer the subject of discussion in particular. The second thing about Apeks loans that also look like a gift from the sky for small and medium-sized enterprises in Serbia at first sight, what I got for my eye is that after a very long years of taking Apex loans, that's about about 15 years, we're already on the fifth loan, the second tranche here we're discussing, we've got a lot of crap, so there's no historical data on the effects. For example, an agent on his site, the NBS, only the gnome, has announced that it is predicted that out of some 500 or 600m euros, it is not even important that the exact figure, as Minister Vujovic, will be remembered, that we will have, that 6,000 jobs are expected to be opened. You know, those jobs then cost 80,000 euros each. The question is: What is the efficiency of this? Could we have done it any better? It would be very good if we had an analysis of the previous effects of Apex loans, so that in the future we could do a lot more for our small and medium-sized enterprises, on the side which is better ways to support SMEs and make the state less involved. We have already discussed the proposal for a guarantee fund, which is well-known to you, in public and was even a proposal from the Government in due time, i.e. It was close to becoming and that it was one much more effective way. Simply, if you have a guarantee fund funded by the state, where the state guarantees, say, 25 to 75% of the systemic risk, the effects are much higher than if you have a credit scheme like this. I'm not saying we shouldn't take all the chances there are, but I still think there are a lot better ways to lower the cost of funding for small and medium-sized enterprises in Serbia, and one guarantee fund, by the reputation of those who exist, for example. in France or, for example, in Belgium and many other EU countries, it would be the best way for small and medium-sized enterprises to get funding under very reasonable conditions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4932	Thank you. The word is Milija Miletic, and let Miovan Bojic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4933	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear fellow MPs, distinguished ministers, citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic, and I come from the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, that is Svrljig municipality located next to the most beautiful city in Serbia, that is the town of Nis, and I represent in the Serbian Assembly the United Peasant Party and selected from the SNS list. I will support a set of all these draft laws on loans, where we will consolidate our budget of the Republic of Serbia. I will focus most on helping small and medium-sized enterprises to lend small and medium-sized enterprises, where I call on everyone, and on you at the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Business, to put a special accent on Southeast Serbia and to give you much greater benefits for the lending of small and medium-sized enterprises. I think we will thus give great support to the development of the southeast of Serbia because we had our government there for a few days, visiting all of our municipalities in southeastern Serbia. I'm sure we'll have the opportunity for these loans to solve what's lagging behind and allow the budget to be consolidated. I would also take the opportunity to thank the Government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by our prime minister, Mr. Vukic, on behalf of a large number of agricultural pensioners, and you, Mr. Minister, with your people from the Ministry of Finance, for successfully completed negotiations with the IMF on increasing the pensions of all agricultural pensioners and other pensioners and all public sector people by 5, 6, or 7%. Once again, thank you. I am sure that in the next period, we will continue to take the uphill line, with an accent, I say again, to southeastern Serbia, for the development of Southeast Serbia. I am sure that Serbia's Development Agency will have the opportunity to, together with the favourable lending and financing of Southeastern Serbia, with a special emphasis on Svrljig municipalities, Bela Palanka, Gajin Han, Babusnica, these municipalities should also be helped through small and medium-sized enterprises, through micro-enterprises, through cooperative companies, because in this way we will have the opportunity to solve the problem and development of Southeast Serbia, which is a major problem for us throughout Serbia. Thanks again. I give great support and I will vote in favour of all these bill proposals proposed by our government, headed by Mr. Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4934	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Milovan Bojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4935	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party strongly opposes the adoption of the Fund for the Western Balkans, and as the main reason it highlights the participation of the quasi-state of Kosovo as members of the Western Balkans Fund. If we look at comparative advantages and disadvantages, we find this lack much stronger and significantly more pronounced than any of the advantages such regional co-operation and exchanges bring. There, in the EU lobby, by the initiators of the organisation of such a fund, Serbia, which was always seen as a locomotive that should draw Western Balkan countries towards the EU, now has to play out the co-operation of Serbia and the quasi-state of Kosovo, praise that co-operation is successful, natural, that we are conditioned to each other, and we will also receive as a reward once in EU membership, as we have received countries from the Visegrad Group. The positive effects of such a fund are also important, since we are explicitly against it, we want this opportunity to apostrophe them. They are known from the experience of development and promotion and enlargement of the EU through the countries of Benelux, the countries of the Nordic Council, the countries of the Visegrad Group, and we welcome it. But this negative effect makes us and strengthens our conviction to be against it. Otherwise, the Western Balkans Fund was built and conceived according to the Visegrad Fund model. As much as my memory serves, I think the Visegrad Fund was created in 1991 and gave a significant momentum to the prosperity and development of the countries of the multi-city triangle, and later on, a quadrilateral one. At that time, pre-dominant co-operation was in the area of economy, energy and security, and later in other areas. There were certainly positive effects – the countries of the multi-city square have become stable market economies, while being admitted into the European Union. But let us not forget, MPs, when we compare this, that we have the fact that the Czech Republic and Slovakia have calmly separated and that this is incomparable to Serbia and Kosovo, in any sense. On the other hand, honourable Members of the People, I would like to remind you that when an agreement was signed in mid-November 2015 on the establishment of the Western Balkans Fund, in the magnificent building of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Czech Republic, at the former Napoleon hospital, at a meeting where the main Vetta was right about Hashim Thaci, the European Union functioned at full capacity. Today, a year later, the Millennium project, as Eurofanatics call it, no longer operates in full capacity. It is no longer the EU, it is the former EU or the rest of the EU, and there is no need for me to take this issue into account. The EU's leaders, primarily the President of the European Parliament, the foreign minister of the strongest members of the EU, and other European officials and officials speak of this even more strongly. The European Union, as the goal of the Western Balkan countries, and this Fund as an acceleration to achieve this goal, is, among other things, the former, because a permanent member of the G-7 Group has stepped down from its composition, the world's most industrially developed countries. I'll remind you – next to America, Canada, Japan, Germany, France, Italy, Great Britain. The European Union, among other things, is the former, because one nuclear power came out of its composition. The European Union, among other things, is the former, because a permanent member of the UN Security Council has stepped down from its composition with the right to veto. The European Union, among other things, is the former, because it has stepped forward from its composition in the strength of the EU's economy, with the most dissociative market and the best opportunities for its expansion and improvement in European and world scales. But, among other things, every day, the European Union is increasingly formerly unable to meet the challenges ahead of it. Let us remember the migration crisis, the euro area crisis, the unequal criteria for third forces and other entities. In addition, in 2017 there will be significant elections in important EU members, with an extremely uncertain outcome. Dear People's Messengers, humanity is no longer what it was before. Once mankind lost its global counterweight, it was all within reach of one force and its enormous influence on the other. There's no world left today. There are other markets and every day we learn the unconventional possibilities of their expansion and improvement. Dear People's MPs, a stumbling block, when it comes to Kosovo, or Kosovo and Metohija, we speak here in daily political traffic in Serbia. And it is unnecessary for us here to look up whether or not we will recognise Kosovo when we round the final details of its independence with these and similar moves. We can't, honourable MPs, play hide-and-seek with ourselves anymore, without knowing the game where he must be caught, because there's nothing to hide behind. Respected Serbian citizens, no one is as blind as one who does not want to see, or as one who is banned or ordered to close his eyes. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia cannot hide ahead of these facts. It cannot declare such agreements politically, when they, a couple of excellants, produce legal consequences and flagrantly violate the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, violate its territorial integrity. I fear that with our actions or inactions, such as our adoption of such an agreement and similar agreements, and where we are struggling in a frenzy, I would like to commend our delegation, representatives of the ruling majority in the CoE Parliamentary Assembly, who are watching how to block Kosovo's participation, that today's adoption and such chances will diminish. I'm afraid we're not going to be in a position where KIM doesn't look like a dead man anymore, saying that to a court-medical dictionary, a deceased who no one wants to determine death, and then there's an ingenious solution to put a pen in his dead body's hands that I signed to die. That is why it is time for a new initiative, a break to the state leadership of Serbia at the stage of the ultimatum and a tense political atmosphere, to re-evaluate the constitutionality and legality of such agreements. If there is already will, and unfortunately there is, that agreement is accepted, the ruling majority is comfortable, can today declare that the start of the summer, then within the framework of co-operation through the Western Balkans, I recommend them, since there is also inter-border educational, cultural, scientific co-operation, exchange of young talent, etc., that through this expert and scientific co-operation they suggest that at least 15 tonnes of poor uranium has been thrown into Kosovo and that they stop saying that it is medicinal. No, it's not medical, through particles and winding through air, it reaches several hundred kilometers, even to Avian, where the bombs came from to Serbia and then to SRJ. And one of their medical officials, showing absolute ignorance when it comes to this topic, said -- I don't care about that, we'll talk about it in four billion and 45 years, counting on a martyr for how half-life of poor uranium is, and he's already dying of leukaemia and lymphoma, and he's just about to explode malignancies of solid organs. You can see how well the SRS takes care of all our citizens, including those in our southern Serbian province. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4936	Before we continue my work, allow me to welcome on your and my behalf the students of the Department of Reporting and Communications of the FPN University of Belgrade, who are monitoring today's session. Thank you. (Vojislav Seselj, from the city: Our time is running. The apostle must be disfellowshipped when he has finished his speech. First, don't interrupt me. Thank you for welcoming the guests. Secondly, I ask the MPs to make sure when they finish the speech to press the key in front of them and break the time. So it's not my place to deal with technical issues. Now the word has Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4937	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected legislators, most of the proposed laws concern the taking of loans and financial support for the realisation of investment projects, i.e. the refinance of existing loans. Realisation of development projects in most cases is carried out in the hands of the government, its sectors and local self-government. There are cracks, at least in the towns of Sandzak, and their causes are mostly indemnity, sloppyness, unprofessionalism or abuse of existing local authorities. Let me illustrate that with a few specific examples. In 2005, then-Prime Minister Kostunica opened works on a bypass around Novi Pazar. After him, almost all the major officials of the former regime came, threw a few shovels of concrete, as the then president of the state of Tadic in 2010, and re-opened works that, even today, 12 years later, did not deviate from the initial stages. The regional roads of Novi Pazar - Sjenica and Novi Pazar – Tutin are in the worst condition, and many times the funds, investors, are approved, promised their recovery. But there's still nothing of it. In 2015, the Council adopted The government of the Republic of Serbia has approved funds to build a bridge across the Raska River in Novi Pazar. Minister Mihajlovic attended the initial works, but local authorities did not provide minimum conditions for the bridge to be completed. So there was a will, the funds were approved. The inability of local authorities to provide supervisory authorities to monitor the quality and dynamics of realisation has led to the collapse of the project. The freshest example, shares of Dug Poljana – Sjenica, near Brnjica, which has been restored for 20 days, has been re-emerged and will likely experience a new dive in a few months. So the government has allocated funds again, the works have been done unqualityly, and the lives of citizens on this road again are in danger. I deliberately potentiate the issue of infrastructure, as very often by local authorities respects that investors in this area do not invest because of bad infrastructure. In addition, the government must be listed as the main culprit. It is true that the government is under-invested in the development of this region and that it should invest much more in infrastructure, development of economy and employment, but it is also true that local authorities are also misusing what comes from republican budgets and funds. It is therefore important for all investment projects to introduce supervisory authorities and to make further efforts from these other loans to bring this poor and devastated region closer to the Republic standard and to the number of employees and conditions for the arrival of investors. Another example of the abuse of investment and manipulation by local authorities is in SO Tutin. The citizens of Tutina in 2017 do not have drinking water. The liquid that comes from the central city water supply is not uncommon for technical use either. Official water quality-checking institutions have given an assessment, quote – water is not for human use, hence it has been found that most of the diseases in the Tutina area are caused by the consumption of polluted water. People in this area with over 66% of poverty are often unable to buy drinking water. Three times, the Luxembourg government allocated funds to reconstruct the water line, and the bulky item in the SO Tutin budget years ago also concerns the construction of new filter plants. I don't have any information on whether the government was setting up funds for this water line. If not, then it's lucky, because all these donations are gone without a trace, and the citizens still don't have drinking water. Therefore, it is necessary for the Sandzak area and all other cities to strengthen projects that will provide citizens with minimum conditions for normal life, but also for each project to be monitored. On the other hand, these areas are constantly in trouble due to the existence of a large number of streams, words, rivers, and defenses from which nothing is done. While at the same time we have a constant risk of epidemics that can be catastrophic. The garbage dump Golo hill in Novi Pazar is not built by regulations and it is not yet done to resuscitate, which is why flora and fauna have already experienced mutations in the move. Or, even more horrendous example is an uncultified dump on the mestoral road of Sjenica – Nova Varoš in the seat of Zlatar Mountain and not far from Uvec Canyon, the natural habitat of the endemic type of Whitehead soup. Instead of nursing the pearls of our nature, the areas of air spas are used to endanger our own and our children's lives. Therefore, it would be important for this loan, and other projects related to the protection of the natural environment and environmental disasters, to provide funds for the recovery of dumps in the Sandzah cities and the conservation of the ecological environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4938	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4939	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I'm going to be a little bit more concerned with these financial laws, because I've seen big explosions of former regime members here when we've established the public debt of the Republic of Serbia, so maybe they've taken advantage of what Mr. Vujovic was not a minister at the time, and he doesn't know all the information. He's got numbers, but he doesn't know how the numbers came up. According to the same data my former regime counterparts are calling for, Serbia had an external debt of 7,393,448,000 euros on July 31st 2012. Public debt, I'm talking about external public debt, not internal debt, was 43% in dollars. Only at the time it was $3.17.182.640, right in the figure, it left the former regime’s new governments with a debt of $476.877.396, or to translate almost 2% of Serbia’s GDP. Mr. Minister, they will not even be honest to say what the interest is on their loans raised by the Republic of Serbia and that it is in fact those who took the citizens of Serbia, pensioners, and not the government of Aleksandr Vukic. You know, for example, let's say "Sartida", it's clear when someone doesn't create something, how easily they give it away and give it away. So neither did they take care of state-owned enterprises, we're going back a little bit, because I'm going to be dealing with the causes of this bill, a new responsibility. We had situations that some of our public companies had to be in debt on the market for various political and other reasons, and that is to say, "Srbiagas" has, but be careful: a loan that was raised on 24 September 2009 amounting to 50m euros with interest of 4.80%; then you have "Srbiagas" on 24 September 2009 120m with the same interest; then on 22 June 2011, "Srbiagas", 45m with 4.19%; and then "Srbiagas" which was in debt on 22 June 2011 4,19% on 40 million; and you have on 22 June 2011 at 40 million 4,19% new debt and not counting, it's a little longer list. Do you know why "Serbigas" was in debt? Because, on two grounds, certain users did not settle their obligations to "Srbigas" and that the local self-governments that used that gas for district heating and always the explanation of the former regime's representatives were that the gas could not be stopped by local self-governments because the most people would suffer or run out of heating would be threatened with their health, life, etc., which is true, but they do not say why it happened, because in most cases, more than 90%, the users of remote heating services have reconciled their obligations to heatification. The former regime, instead of paying the gas to "Srbigas" divided it into salaries, is the most principal. The second largest debtors of "Srbigas" were enterprises in restructuring, so you also have "Azotara", not to list, and "Tiger", and "Thalal", and "Krusik" Valjevo. There's a lot of them. What are not the reasons why there is no compliance with the obligation to “Srbigas, ” or to the energy delivered? Because, in my opinion, it is one of the biggest shame that a former executive can do, and instead of earning money and restructuring companies and training them to work and further successful privatisation, the directors of the former regime, appointed by the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic and DS, competed, not in the results of work, not in the results of how to improve production, but were competing to buy a more expensive and better car from the Republic of Serbia's budget, or from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Do I need that data to read? Let's move on. There was a story here about "Air Serbia", so moaning about how we give something to "Etihad", that it is a failed company, which records losses, which is the biggest failure by the government of Aleksandr Vukic. This is what it looks like when they led JAT at the time, and now Air Serbia: 20m euros at 3.95% on 21 September 2010; then 21 September 2010, means another 20m euros with 3.9% and a 3-month Euribor; then on the same day, four million and 750 000 euros 3.95%; then on the same day, four million and 750 3.95%; then on the same day another million euros with the same interest; and another million euros with the same interest; and on 16 January 2012, 10m euros with interest 5.25%; and then on 20 December 2012, due to the obligation another 10m euros. Why don't members of the former regime say that JAT then had seven jet planes in his fleet and only three were in an annual state? I ask the question - where did you spend that money, where did that money go? Why did Serbia take over, or did the citizens of Serbia take over these debts? It's your debts. It's a growing public debt, and to see what it looked like with the Republic of Serbia's budget. You have one, in my opinion, very interestingly nice loan, very favourable with the EBRD, given consent on 22 September 2009 to 150m euros with 1% interest increased by six-monthly Euribor. It's an exceptional loan. He says, Corridor 10, 2009, what did you do for three years? Where's this Corridor 10? Where are your stealth roads, where are your stealth bridges? It's not the end. There are more, ladies and gentlemen MPs. Corridor 10 Republika Srpska 23 October, 340m euros, 2.48%. It's those famous five-mile highways near Presevo. They've done so much from the highway. It's software loans and I don't mind. However, you have this, covering the daily liquidity of the Republic of Serbia's budget, and it says: on 20 April 2010, say the Vojvodjanska Banka 20 million, interest 4.3%; then you have Erste Banka, same 20 April, 40m euros, the same interest 4.25%; then on the same day 100m euros with interest 4.35%. Now watch how they had their pensions and how they provided funds with their unhappiness. You have here, again, Corridor 10 highway E80 265m euros. You didn't even do the project. Then we have classic responsibilities. Watch out, very interesting interest. Says Intesa Banka on 14 December 2010, it's already spent money, 39m euros; then Raiffeisen Banka 39m euros with interest 5.3%; then Unicredit Bank 46 and 600 000 14th December; interest 5.30%; pa Hypo Alpe-Adria Banka 20m, same interest; then New Credit Bank Maribor 20m; Vojvodjanska Banka 20; Maribor 10; EFG Banka 20m; NLB Banka 10m etc. You can see the credit rating of the state led by Mirko Cvetkovic and DS. Today, the Pera lodger in Serbia has a better credit rating than Serbia had when they led it. That's what this is about, and since they spent money, you have, say, one very interesting loan, it says, from the EBRD to five million euros, which bears the name – a risk insurance project in case of elemental disasters, on July 12th 2011. Now I ask the question – where is this project for you people? We needed him in 2014, he needed 75% of the Republic of Serbia, the project is gone, and if he has it unusable, because they found a way to get the money out for something unusable, which would engulf the Republic of Serbia. That's how the former regime used to do it. What's that look like today? Just to remind you in 2011 and 2012, the Republic of Serbia was in charge of this during the DS regime and Mirko Cvetkovic. On dinar charters of value with a maturity of six months, 11%. Do you know what today is? Five percent. When it comes to euro-indexed paper, the value was 7%, and today you know which one? One coma eighteen. Do you know which one was for Euro bonds in 2012? The interest was 7% again and today it's 2.25%. Why am I telling you all this information? Because those who allegedly care about pensions and salaries in the public sector will not understand or want to understand what is the reverse direction the prime minister was talking about. When you're in debt, you have to take care of your gross product and you have to take care of interest, and interest cannot possibly be greater than the growth of gross products in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and by 2012, we've been in debt even though we've had a negative growth in gross products, or we've been down by 2012. And that's how statistical data can be handled. I'm aware that there's always a suspicion that some data can be distorted or misused, but those data you get from the financial market, from those who decide whether to give you money or not, how much their risk that that money will not be returned to them or returned to them in time or late, these data are inexorable and their criteria are the strictest. This shows how much Serbia is respected today both in financial terms and in legal certainty because we are now raising incomparably cheaper loans to return the uncomparably expensive left to us by the former regime. You know, Mr. Minister, they have one custom to take their credits that are bad for someone else. In the animal world, there is a bird that lays its egg in the nest of another bird and is called a coward. I think this metaphor tells you everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4940	Here you go. The word is made by the People's MP Tatjan Macur, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4941	I have applied for a breach of Rules of Procedure, Article 106, paragraph 1 and Article 108(1). The earlier presentation that we had heard, which lasted for more than 15 minutes, the speaker did not speak of any of the points, or united points, that were placed on the agenda. Let me remind you, on October 25th, we were presented with a agenda in which, once with a skillful manipulation, we came to the point 3 through 8 being discussed, although these points are not sufficiently connected to each other. However, the previous speaker managed to extend even that broad view of the united agenda points and to abuse the time that belongs to his parliamentary group. He talked all the time about the previous regime, but I don't know if he's thinking about the previous regime in which his MP group participated, or thinking about the previous, previous regime, so even from that debate that lasted more than 15 minutes, from his presentation, I still couldn't figure out which regime he was talking about. I referred to Article 108 of attitude 1 for a simple reason, saying that the order at the National Assembly session is the old president of the National Assembly. I don't know if you've been listening to these 15 minutes of exposure, but I'm sure you've been listening to it, so you'll notice that there's nothing to say about what's on the agenda at all here.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4942	Unlike the MPs who go out whenever they finish their speech or someone from their parliamentary group, I am obliged to listen when I am in the O.R., so I listened. I'll wait for them to apologize, chat, etc. It's not a problem. Are you done? It's not clear to me, just so I can give you the right answer, is the problem the regime was referring to, since it was part of your exposure, and it depends on whether I give it to the next speaker, who recognized himself, or is the problem with you, since you spoke more of what regime was that about?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4943	There are both things that have been used. So, except the speaker wasn't saying... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4944	I understand. It's all right. (Tatyana Macura, from the scene: turn on my microphone.) God. All right, it's all right. (Tatyana Macura, from the scene: what does this look like not to let me finish, turn on my microphone.) All right. I understand the tactics, that you're constantly devising everything, that you're insulting the president, etc. I realized that a few sessions ago. You're not gonna piss me off, and you're unthinking the work of Parliament as much as you want, that's your right. It's the right of political struggle. So the head of Parliament's DS thinks it was about them, it's part of the answer to your question, and I'm going to give it a short line, and the rest of it whether the MP talked about the subject or didn't talk about it, he was talking about the subject perfectly and on the subject, depending on how it's done.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4945	Since you, Madam President, mentioned what should be the basis of this replica, I will tell you. The DS has been mentioned two or three times, and I am the authorised president of the DS, and I have not recognised myself in that former regime since the former regime and the previous government and it were before it, the three governments have passed by the DS government. So, since the DS is mentioned, I want to repeat something that we mentioned both in the principle debate and at the beginning of this Assembly and this session, which is that we need to talk about facts. Here we heard a large number, the director of "Srbigas" was mentioned, and the corridors and some ministers who dealt with these affairs were mentioned, and at least there were words or general words about the laws mentioned. I think it's important to accept something that's a fact. In May 2012, the public debt amounted to 14.8 billion and this is the paper that proves it, because you can download it from the Public Debt Administration website. This amounted to 48% of the public debt in GDP, and it is true that at that time the legal figure of 45% of the public debt in GDP was exceeded. Today, the public debt is 24.2 billion, which means that with these new responsibilities we can get to close to 25, which means we've doubled the debt for these four years. Not doubled, from 15 billion came to nearly 25, ten billion debts and these, and the previous ones before the government, which is precisely this ruling coalition. These are facts, with the fact that it is now 72% of public debt in GDP.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4946	Thank you, MP, thank you. In accordance with Article 27 and Article 87(2) and (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'd like to inform you that we'll be working after 6:00 today. You want to answer? Two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4947	Of course, because he was making dry facts, not some numbers and data, first of all. The second thing, for those who did not live in parliament, should know that I was dealing with the causes of the new duty of the Republic of Serbia and that this is on the subject of the agenda, and how much the DS and their authorised representative should trust, is the fact that the entire 10% of the points were reduced by the public debt in 2012, which was left to us. It's not 46, it's 56%. In 2011, you were 46. So much for that. When he boasts that, when they came to power in 2001, they had a public debt of $15 billion or a mark and they dropped to five, which doesn't say that we owed as SFRY 15 billion marks or dollars, that they had turned the succession from secession and accepted the 30% of SFRY debt? They didn't cut anything. Nothing. It's just a debt allocated to the republics. Why don't you say so? The way they read the numbers, the way they turn, that's why I was talking about statistical data. The former director of the Post Office of Serbia who lost his job with Infostan in Belgrade, a million users each month gave in to privates. A former Serbian postal racer who, ladies and gentlemen, created a post office centre in Belgrade, which exceeds the needs of the SFRY in dimensions, to be sold to a private company at a lower price than the facility was paid. Well, I trust you no more, neither I nor the citizens. Well, you see that in the election. Your pensions haven't been cut since these elections, they've been cut before these elections, and you've got fewer votes again. Ask yourself what you're doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4948	Thank you, MP. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric. Branka Stamenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4949	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Article 87(2). Before the previous speaker, you informed us that the National Assembly would extend the work after 1800 hours, as you have informed us every time this regular session began on October 4th. There hasn't been a single session yet that we've been doing as attitude one prescribes, and that's between 10:00 and 6:00 p.m. That is fine, since Article 2 gives you the right to extend your work and announce it in time, but at the same time it says – if there are reasonable reasons for that, that the President of the National Assembly is telling the MPs. I'm asking you to give us these valid reasons, since you haven't done it so far, for any previous session, or for this one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4950	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4951	According to old bad practice, when there are no arguments, then it moves into personal insults, but I will speak the language of arguments. So, yes, in May 2012, 48% of the public debt rate exceeded 45% and, we talked about, was the government's legal obligation, whatever, that at the first next budget presentation and budget proposal to the National Assembly of RS, which was December 2012 before 2013, it presented a proposal for a measure to reduce public debt and public debt above 45%. We haven't had that in the last four years. Since the Post Office of Serbia has also been mentioned, I think it is important to say, and they know it best in the Post Office of Serbia, which is that the project that has been considered, the construction of the main postal centres, not only in Belgrade, but Nis, Novi Sad, is something that has opened up opportunities for the development and development of one industry, the postal industry, which many consider obsolete by reducing the number of letters in flows, because of the electronic modernisation and way of development and governance, electronic trade and development of logistics services, is accessible to this project, and this project, fortunately by all mails, but I am sure that Serbia's citizens, finished and implemented. There were no intents or intentions to sell, nor could it be done, because in the Post Office of Serbia we have organs such as the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board, the director who decides on business projects, so that no individual can manage the property that is state-owned. So we have the current Law on Assets of the Republic of Serbia, we have current property laws, and it simply cannot be alienated. The truth is, I had to say this.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4952	I thank you, MP. The word is by MP Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4953	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Article 103 paragraph 5. - if he considers that the injury has not been committed, the President of the National Assembly is obliged to give an explanation, and if he considers that the injury has been committed, the President of the National Assembly is required to remove the injury. Just before I advertised Rules of Procedure, Article 87(2), you did not give an explanation and justifiable reason. You have silenced my breach of the Rules of Procedure, nor have you admitted that you have made a mistake, nor have you given an explanation that I have asked for. I'm asking you to stick to the Rules of Procedure. That explanation, why we do it all the time longer than what is prescribed by the Rules of Procedure, if not for us, the MPs, you owe it to the workers who work in this Assembly, who come to work at 06.00 in the morning and have to stay until the end of the session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4954	I watched your video. If that was the goal of saying, then okay, I won't punish you, since you abuse the possibility of harming the Rules of Procedure. If that was the goal... (Branka Stamenkovic, from the place: Give me an explanation why we... Nothing forced. The People's Messenger Slavisa Ristic has the word, so let Goran Jesic be prepared. Here you go. Thank you. I've seen videos and that, if it amuses you endlessly, then fine.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4955	Thank you, President. Dear People's MPs, I will in this short time, as I understand it, have about three minutes to refer first of all to the proposal for a bill confirming the Agreement on the Western Balkans. With all due respect to this issue of loans and government debt, you know how, if the state borrows, or if the host of the house is overrun, there's a chance that future generations, that their children can take the country out of debt slavery or the house, but if you give and hand over part of the territory, if we hand over our AP KIM, then it's really too late. It seems to me that all this time, especially last Wednesday, we had a chance to hear representatives of the current and former government about who signed more agreements in Brussels. Of course, I didn't realize whether or not they boasted of each other, but at least they were talking about the bill that, if this parliament ratified it, if the law was passed, it would indeed be a direct recognition of Kosovo's independence. I'll tell you why. So far, we've had agreements in Brussels. And this assembly had the opportunity to just listen to the report of our negotiators and vote on it, but it has never happened before, we had no case for parliament to pass a law on a single agreement in which one of the parties so-called. the state of Kosovo. Please, let me just finish, please. So, so far, we've had the signing and paraphrasing of anti-constitutional and anti-state agreements in Brussels, so so far we've had the betrayal of the country in Brussels. If the MPs vote for this law, we will have an issue in Belgrade, in the capital of the Republic of Serbia, and we will have a direct issue in this parliament. So I ask you, honourable MPs, to leave both the court of history and the courts of this country to judge what is with the Brussels Agreements, which are the consequences of the Brussels Agreements, but do not let the parliament of the Serbian state participate in the betrayal of the country. So I invite you, all of you, especially the MPs of the assembly majority, to go deaf this time in the voting day about the bells they will receive from the command post and not vote for an act of treason of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4956	The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4957	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the dignity of the National Assembly has been severely violated, because no one here intends to betray the Republic of Serbia and no one intends to admit directly or indirectly that the AP Kosovo and Metohija is any state. Mr. Ristic said one amazing thing, that this is the first law to ratify an international agreement where Kosovo is mentioned. Mr. Ristic, in 2006...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4958	Please, no personal address. Remind me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4959	Excuse me, Mr. Arsic, here, I'll speak to you. So, in 2006, you remember that well, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia ratified so-called CEFTA Agreement. So, in 2006, when Mr Ristic's party, I don't know whether it still belongs to the party or not, but it's not that important now, the CEFTA agreement concluded and then in late 2006 the CEFTA agreement came to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and one of the parties was Kosovo-MUMNIK. Well, since in 2006, you Mr. Ristic and DSS did not betray the Republic of Serbia, and now we who are going to vote in favour of forming a Western Balkans fund, with a declaration that we have attached to this agreement, that for us Kosovo and Metohija is not an independent state, but is an integral part of the Republic of Serbia, we are now reportedly issuing the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Is it possible that because you were a member of the DSS in Kosovo and Metohija in 2006, if I am not mistaken, you were the president of the municipality, so when you were in power and you signed some agreement with so-called. With Kosovo, then you are not a traitor, and when you are no longer the president of the municipality, are you suddenly concerned about the interests of Serbia and Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4960	Mr. Martinovic, I think the Rules of Procedure... You're not asking to vote? No, I don't. ) (Slavisa Ristić, from the place: I was directly mentioned. Mr. Ristic, you have no right to do so because he has been in violation of the Rules of Procedure. He got a word based on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. (Slavisa Ristić, from the place: Replica. I'm directly mentioned. Never mind, I didn't make it a rule. There's no replication of advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure, really. Otherwise, I remember very well in 2006 and the CEFTA Agreement and who was the signator. I answer to Martinovic because he asked me if I remember. I answered him to remember. (Slavisa Ristic, from the place: You turned on your microphone and you and Martinovic spoke. ) The word of the People's Messenger is Goran Jesic, and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Đorđe Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4961	Dear Chairman, I have to help you, but I didn't hear what member advertised, the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Martinovic earlier, but it doesn't matter. Mr. Minister, we have a law ahead of us and this is in a month how this Parliament works effectively, who knows which time, fifth or sixth time, we come together with a theme or we take money to local self-government units or we extend the loan, and we're going to show that we're not able to complete the project, so we're going to pay that famous intercal interest you've explained to us here. We're coming in today with a set of borrowing laws. I'll only stay on this loan, as it's interpreted, of a billion dollars loan from the Arab fund. In fact, in the text section, it is almost identical to the law that announced a letter about the intentions of March 28th, 2013 in Abu Dhabi signed by Mladjan Dinkic, the minister of the time, with him being a dedicated loan and he was at $100m, the same indexed drachma. What worries me about all these borrowings, that's what we talked about here last time, which is that except for this loan where you're guaranteed to withdraw in these assets that come to you and solve problems with the budget deficit, in other duties that we have, we have a constant problem. I want to remind you of this 2013 assignment, or signed letter of intent with the same fund whose contract we have here today, the exact same text, I say once again, only in this text today we have the opportunity to make an application, as you explained, and get a tranche of money, and in this we have a project financing, which is obviously more complex for this administration and a real problem with that intercal interest. Since we just heard from representatives of the current and former regime that the interest was higher, I ask you when you have a preparation for the parliamentary club to explain and what the price of capital was then, and in that loan from 2014, there was a higher price of capital than in this loan today, which proves that this depends not only on the domestic administration. I'm asking you to just focus on that loan. Minister Dinkic went to Abu Dhabi on March 28th, on the orders of the government's first vice president then, and signed the contract, listing $400m in a letter, with the goal of providing the $400m Development Fund Abu Dhabi and $400m in Al Dahra's investment with a total of $800m in investments in Serbian agriculture. After that, nothing happened. A year passed from 28 March 2013 to 6 March 2014, when the law came to this House to ratify a special loan from the same fund, but purposely. I say once again, completely two identical texts, by having a project funding in there with some other laws. What followed then began an intensive action by various ministries where they tried to provide projects to which we would withdraw these funds and not pay that intercal interest and do something with those funds after the ratification of the contract. To this day, and this loan expires in a year and two months, the deadline for the withdrawal of that hundred million dollars is 2017, we did not withdraw any single dinar from the same fund. You mentioned intercal interest, it's 0.5%, as well as most of the other loans we've borrowed. What did that look like? There goes the Prime Minister by order of the Prime Minister or the first Deputy Prime Minister, who has the best friend in Abu Dhabi, signed a letter on the intentions of 2013, then within a year, the document comes to this parliament in 2014 and then we start only, we ratify the contract, and then we start to provide projects, because we have no idea what we're going to finance. Then on 28 August, four months after that or five months after that, a question is sent to "Serbian" and "Vojvodina's waters" to deliver the documentation at all, to try to prepare projects for a loan that is already under way, and then in September 25.9.2014 the government is bound by the conclusion of the units, implementation and development of these projects, and then goes another month and the letter of JP "Vode Vojvodina" and "Serbia" is sent, and then in September 25.9.2014 the project documentation, which is unfortunately not available in "Serbia" and there is a commission to do so in "Vojvodina" and then in 30.9.2014, after a month, a meeting was held in the cabinet of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia's Republic of Serbia's Republic of Serbia, and we will not be able to pay any more attention to the funds, so we will not spend more time in the financial system, and we will spend more money with the financial funds, and we will be paid by the government. That's the same $100 million loan from the same fund. You can convince me that we're gonna spend the credits properly, and I'm telling you that we're not. Two weeks or three weeks ago, when we discussed here, we established – together we paid 29 million since December 1st 2013 intercal interest, i.e., for citizens, we paid interest on loans we didn't withdraw. As for this billion-dollar loan we have here today, I believe it will be spent and withdrawn within the time limit, knowing how serious you are economists, that it will happen. But we keep spinning the same story. Today we have another debate here whether we're in a stable financial situation, whether we're going to let go of the pay raise or we're going to relax it by some percentage increase in pensions and wages. We are in such a financial situation, you have made it clear to us at the past few meetings together with us here in Parliament. But what is a problem is also in the 2014 law, and also in the law of this law, and you have not explained it to us, and that is what Mr. Ciric insisted, which is what, a defacto mortgage law that we give as a guarantee of this loan that you said would never happen that this parliament building will never be charged tomorrow unless we return these funds. One more thing that is very important and we want to insist on it, I believe that you will appear in parliament ahead of us, which is based on the Law on the Budgetary System of Article 27a, fiscal rules of position 4 and Article 12 of the same law, says: – if the debt of the general government without debt is passed by 45% of GDP, the government is obliged to submit a debt reduction programme to the National Assembly together with the budget for the coming year. I expect you to follow this Budgetary System Act at the moment you show up, to debate and tell us how we're going to get out of this problem that we've all entered together. The defacto things are clear. I do not need to explain to a representative of the current regime or the former regime what Mr. Arsic already calls members of the opposition, that in 20.12.2012, the Democratic Party could not sign a loan. It was certainly a lapus and a mistake, but the responsibility is common to this, and I ask that in the future when you think about borrowing, before that you force, you as the main and responsible man in the government for fiscal policy, all those who intend to be in charge, that they first have complete documentation, completed expropriation, and that those funds that you agree to place on dedicated projects, and not that in the last three years, I amnested you for 2012, although you shouldn't, 30 million euros, pay interest for something we haven't done. One more thing, maybe it's not the topic here, when we look at it, and the public enterprises are mentioned, we talk about savings all the time, and you say in the first day you told us, this is a reward for our work, and I quote you -- this credit is a reward for our work, for cutting salaries and pensions, this is a reward for our work. I would support you if you had reformed public enterprises, if you had mentioned "Azotar" in order, if we hadn't recharged the RTB Bor and that what we're going to give for tax this year amounts to approximately an increase in pensions that you predicted this year. Come on, let's get to the biggest problems we have to deal with, and these are public enterprises that are a much bigger problem than administrations and wages and pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4962	Before I give you Mr. Minister a word, there are some misunderstandings just to solve my colleague, Jesic. When I say the former regime, it refers to MPs who were in power and have lost power and there is no discussion of what part it relates to. I should also draw your attention, although it is not my obligation, to pronounce the EU with the euro in Serbian and Serbian currency. That's to learn. I don't mind you speaking in the languages of national minorities, but at least tell us to provide you with an interpreter. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4963	Thank you very much. We've already talked a lot about these loans, I see we're going to have to keep things straight. I mean, if it's important that we understand each other, it doesn't matter how many times we have to open the same topics. So, first of all, let me say that the right balance of debt, I was first elected to the government on 27 April 2014, and that day, the debt situation was 20 billion 595 million euros stuck. It was April 27, 2014. This year, the 30.9th state of debt was 24 billion 138, or 150 with some small corrections. That's a total of 3.55 billion increases. So, legally since the government, since Prime Minister Vukic was in two elections, has grown 3.55m euros and not a cent more. If we're talking about data, and I'm going to tell you another much more important piece of information, since the start of the program, we can't cut things off as you come to mind and make conclusions that people listen to and they're completely confused. From the beginning of this programme, i.e. As of 1 October 2014, when we first came forward, Prime Minister Vukic announced in public, the basic draft of the programme on 20 September 2014, until then we defined the programme, Mr Krstic resigned on 15 July, and on 4 August I received a mandate from this Assembly to be Minister of Finance and we defined the programme in record time and received a principally green light for the programme. That day the balance of debt was, now I'm going to tell you exactly, 22 billion and 100 million. From then on, the debt increase is only two billion and 50 million. Just two billion and 50 million since the program started. We need to watch the program, as your doctor will measure your temperature when you get to the hospital, not when you first thought you were sick. Come on, let's be a little bit more correct about what we're talking about. So from the moment we started, we started talking about the program, about what it contains and what we do. Since then, the debt has been increased by two billion and 50 million. We had a deficit at the end of that year, we had a deficit that we had to finance from over a billion. There were 242 billion debt of the general government at the end of 2014 and was a deficit of around 140 and some billion in 2015. Over a billion of them went to finance the deficits, 600 million were exchange rate differences and other minor changes. That's what the cost of increasing the debt since the program started. We're analyzing the program. If you're saying this program cost 10 billion, that's, I'm sorry, contrary to the fact, which is what the people would say is false, or false. You have no right to manipulate facts. It may have been 200 billion, so we cut down on the Paris and London Club where I had the opportunity to help with that, but these are all things that need to be interpreted in their place, in their context. From these two billion this year, these 10 months with today we have a final surplus in October, a total of 35 billion surpluses of the republican budget, and a general state of 15, approximately balanced state. Ten months, we never had a chance to have a balanced budget after 10 months. We're still projecting that by the end of the year, we're going to have a deficit of about 2%, and that's conservative, and we don't think that we're going to throw up until then with all the commitments from the past, taking over one-time pension increases or other donations that we're going to have. So that's a fact. We have a space of about 80 billion from now on until the end of the year. Usually, in previous years we had a seasonal increase, and last year the seasonal increase in expenditure in the last quarter was about 35.40 billion. Let it be this year, it leaves room of 35.40.45 billion for taking over debts, but only those who are justified. You mention some companies and I totally agree when it's a cancer wound and it will be in the memorandum of economic and financial policy that we will sign in a few days' time openly and clearly. We have deadlines that we want to settle, and the fund supports it. We want to stop the bleeding. We want to stop companies from spending gas without paying for it and not producing anything. If someone can make 50 million debts in a year and they can't pay it, it's a busy day's pay. Split it into 500 workers, and you'll get the sums. I don't mean to say, I'm afraid to say it publicly, 100,000 euros in debt per man per year. It's completely unwarranted. That's what we're gonna stop. As for this second part, the similarity ends with Abu Dhabi Development Fund being the source of one and another loan, such as the World Bank, i.e. The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the source of credit and project and programming, as well as here. That's where the resemblance ends. With project loans, you are absolutely right, an indicative amount of 400 million was agreed, about 400 million of which were only 97 million in principle agreed and almost nothing was withdrawn and, fortunately, nothing was paid of interest in this project, because it was such a defined program to protect us. So we're late, and that's where we totally agree. Who's late and why is he late? Why did we give an arm and opportunity that people didn't know how to use? It seems to me to be a topic for both this government and this Parliament and this people. Why did we project 30 years ago, and today we can't? But there's no need for you to tell me when we know it perfectly well, because people told us to do something, and we're doing it, we're trying and we're still not doing it. I don't know when the deadlines for using those funds expire. I hope we do so, that we will use them wisely and make irrigation where it gives effect, not watering everything and where two cultures are possible, and where two cultures are not possible. People tell us -- in a lot of places, it's enough to pick up the plugs and clean up existing channels, there's no need to spend hundreds of millions, but that's the part where a lot of people talk, but very little work. Therefore, the message is good, the message is clear, there is an end to similarity. As for the use of funds, I point out once again, this is money to support the budget. In that temptress contract that is similar in many parts, in some small parts it's very different, the money is given, here the withdrawal is not the problem. Here we have agreed to withdraw 200m euros, a real tranche by the end of this year, if we ratify it today and tomorrow, the next tranche at least six months later. We can look longer, but for at least six months, so practically every six months under a rough December-June plan, December next year, June-December 2018, and that's that, 200 million each. Why this dynamic? Because it's the dynamics in which we have the highest requirements for any payment of interest per dollar, whether the principal is paid off. Since money is given to support the budget, you can use it for all legitimate expenditures in the budget, including payment of interest, including repayment of the principal, including early repayment of some loans. That's up to us. The Public Debt Administration, Mr. Drcelic is the director of the administration, they decide how best to spend the funds. Our goal is to reduce the cost of the debt, our goal is to extend the maturity, our goal is to make the best use of the funds we have, because they will suggest that every 200 million we spend. If the circumstances make it the best option to pay only interest, then we'll pay only interest. If the best option is to pay off a loan too soon, if there's any other choice, then we pay off some other loan prematurely, of course we'll do it. But it's left over, it's budget support, it gives us money, counting on money being safe when they get into our vault, it can't come out without control and another, it'll give the effects we're expecting right now. So there shouldn't be any dilemma. Just to point out, the World Bank, the EU, the Russian Federation, Abu Dhabi Fund, all of them mean that the condition of lending for budget support is a stable, sustainable macroeconomic situation that is most often confirmed by the fund's programme under way. So the World Bank will stop any programme loan if the fund program is stopped for any reason. You can, but you have to look for so-called. a letter, comfort Letter, a letter that assures the World Bank Board of Directors that the country continues to implement a healthy, sustainable macroeconomic policy and that they can be given a loan for structural adjustment, i.e. policy development - policy low, although there is no programme with the fund. And this loan means it. I really don't understand what your... So, we, the one who gives us a loan to support the budget, trusts your budget process, believes that we will look at the budget that we will bring to this Assembly by the end of this month, will watch carefully and say – and the money in Article 3 is proposed for the guarantees and financing of the deficits, the loan is proposed for the loan. I don't know what the problem is. You had the opportunity to look at everything that was suggested last year. We'll take less advantage of what's proposed. Every MP has the right to ask questions, to slow down and say – use cheaper ones. We keep trying to finance it cheaper every year. If I show you, we've prepared a picture of the cost of borrowing all over the years and this curve is constantly dropping. So she falls every year in all hands. I'll give you the information, so look, we can talk about it. Can you do better than that? You got it. Let me just tell you, markets, including our domestic banking market, are already responding positively to the results achieved today by public companies, which have other problems, but also manage to refinance at interest rates, which are three, four, even more percentages lower and which are now below 3% thanks to what has already been achieved in the programme. So, "Srbigas", EPS and others at our commercial banks, with the consent of their headquarters abroad, are refinanced, because they know they won't find better clients for 100, 200 and more million loans, and they give it to us under current commercial conditions under which we can be in debt on capital markets, as we did in the situation when we were working badly, all suffered bad country ratings, so today this successful and improved rating, all benefit from it, and it already is realised. I think it's very important that we understand each other here. There's one part I have to agree with. Whoever said we have structural problems here, we have structural problems, that structural problems are related to social problems, to stakeholders, to resistances, there are problems. It's something where there shouldn't be a political difference, because people will benefit, those who don't want reform will use gaps and political differences not to accept, postpone, obstruct and produce costs. I understand the need for people to think that keeping their jobs is the most important thing. However, a job that does not create a new value is not sustainable. It's a reality, it's like, someone liked it or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4964	The word has a folk MP Goran Jesic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4965	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Mr. Minister, with all due respect, we're talking to you here, if you've noticed. No one in the DS Group has used any ugly words, not unargumentedly attacked you. When we use data, we use data only when we specify the source, and it's mostly data or from your website, from your ministry, or something you said here in parliament. We are absolutely not someone who is against reform in this society. That's the first thing. I'm just asking you not to accuse us of misrepresenting for some petty political reasons a subject that is very important to this society. When the head of the Parliament Club, me and all my friends who were talking here, we were rightly talking and explaining things with you. Yeah, I have a review because last time we had a law on extending the credit withdrawal deadline and we're paying interest here on that, and you took it. We're telling you again today, I was talking about a loan that expires next year, and we're going to pay some ping-pongs again, because nobody's dealing with it, because we gave it to some guy who doesn't know how to do it, and I'm talking about a man named Marko Blagojevic. So I ask you that, with all due respect, don't accuse us of any other matters. Mr. Arsic, thank you for mentioning me earlier. I like you very much. Since, as for my birthday, I'm going to make a nice dictionary for you and me and share it together, some unknown expressions, let's say we share Klein's dictionary together, but don't warn me on that basis when you're sitting there. That's why I didn't want to advertise the Rules of Procedure. Thank you for giving me your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4966	Mr. Jesic, I always stand at your disposal and, as you say, beg me not to answer when I sit here, I beg you not to ask me or quote me while I sit here, but when I come down to the bench. Then we are equal, and this is how you are in a better position. The messenger of the people is Djordje Milicevic, and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Nenad Christmas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4967	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Dear Ministers, the respected representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen, first of all when it comes to the Agreement establishing the Fund for the Western Balkans, I will repeat what Mr Jovanovic said very precisely and clearly in his presentation. So this fund and this agreement cannot be interpreted as recognition of Kosovo's independence, as it does not in any way prejudge the issue of Kosovo's status. The government of the Republic of Serbia takes great care not to cross these red lines that could be interpreted and defined in any way as recognition of Kosovo's independence. The mandate to the government of the Republic of Serbia for negotiations in Brussels has just been given by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, by a large majority of votes, and from that moment on until today, all the talks held in Brussels had a status neutral approach. So the agreement we're talking about today is formulated so that Kosovo is defined, not as a state, but as a territory under the international administration of Serbia. So, in no way is the issue of Kosovo's status prejudged, and that is something that is in line with UN Security Council Resolution 1244. Kosovo, compared to the countries, is represented asymmetrically, and this is in line with the government's policy of the Republic of Serbia, but also in line with all the talks that have been conducted within the framework of the international community. It is true that this initiative has been launched, it was said in 2012, and it is then very clear that Kosovo will be presented as appropriate to Kosovo's representation in international communities. It is also true that Serbia has invested a declaration that has been accepted. The declaration was confirmed by their signature and by other countries participating in this project, the Western Balkan countries, when it comes to the way Kosovo will be presented, and it is true that such a declaration by Serbia has been very clearly fenced that this cannot be interpreted in any way as recognition of Kosovo's independence. There was also the option that Serbia would not participate in the story, when it comes to this Funding Agreement, but the question is what would Serbia get. We must through the talks and through dialogue to build relations, and that is the only way to come up with compromise and fair solutions that are acceptable to both sides on Kosovo. Here we have, when we exempt Kosovo, which is not represented as a state, but asymmetrically, which is in line with the government's policy, which is in line with UN Security Council Resolution 1244, and the rest of the Western Balkans. Some of these countries have recognised Kosovo and Metohija's independence, and have signed an agreement in which Kosovo is not represented as a state, but in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution 1244. If Serbia did not participate in this agreement and is not part of this agreement, the Fund would certainly be formed, but then Kosovo would be presented as a state and I do not see what Serbia is getting. So this is about the Fund, which is founded according to the MFF's modality for the development of a multi-city group. A fund to monitor all activities normally carried out on Western Balkan territory. When it comes to, in view of the time, I have to shorten, the draft law confirming the loan agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Abu Dhabi Development Fund, therefore, it is clear that good bilateral relations between the two countries, but also good political relations between the two governments, are confirmed by one such loan agreement. It is a credit arrangement, we fully agree with you, Minister Vujovic, who gets Serbia under very favourable conditions and we agree when you say this is the most favourable loan Serbia could get in the Western market. Looking back, for many years, I don't think Serbia has received more favourable credit arrangements. What is very important to us is that the funds derived from this credit arrangement are directed in a direction that will give the best and most positive effects, above all, by fiscal consolidation, the preservation of the country's financial and economic stability. As we understand it, the funds from the credit arrangement will be directed towards financing the budget deficit, refinancing of the commitments made, but also when it comes to reducing the cost of borrowing. We had, and that's true, and you talked about it on Wednesday, last Wednesday, unfavourable credit arrangements. Now we've reduced the risks, which is very good. This credit arrangement will help us remove negative effects and preserve Serbia's economic and financial stability. On the other hand, the government is thinking responsibly, seriously, in the long run, that under the most favourable conditions, financial resources, and that is a good and adequate, best possible response at this point, according to the current situation. This will certainly be a good financial support to the budget. It will help us overcome one period, but on the other hand it is a positive signal for potential investors, when it comes to domestic and foreign investors who would like to invest in Serbia. This is an indication that Serbia is a reliable, secure, stable and credible partner. A third thing that's very important. This is another confirmation of the successful reform processes carried out by the government of the Republic of Serbia in the area of economy and finance, confirmation of the success and regularity of the reform processes. These processes were also confirmed by the IMF a few days ago, which is very good and which is another confirmation that Serbian citizens have a government that does and does something concrete in the interests of their citizens, and it certainly is, when it comes to the IMF's position, positive news for Serbian citizens. So Serbia will certainly continue its reform process, Serbia's reform course in our opinion has no alternative to reform so that Serbia in economic terms is a healthy country. Serbia is strong and strong as it is economically stronger and economically stronger and therefore we say that economic recovery and economic progress is a national interest. What are the goals that want to be achieved? Sustainable economic development, improvement in each sector, progress in each sector, but a improvement that will be based on sound foundations. What's very important, we have a clear long-term plan, precisely defined goals, clear intentions, a positive trend is visible. We have a clear intention of the government of the Republic of Serbia to invest enormous work, effort and effort to keep Serbia on track. You were saying, it's encouraging, we also have positive results that are visible when it comes to the budget and they're better than what you're planning, or what the government was planning and when it comes to projectioning the budget deficit for next year. What is very important is that the government of the Republic of Serbia remains within the limits of what is planned. Just a few sentences on the bill to confirm the loan framework agreement between the Development Bank and the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia. This loan, in our opinion, is a confirmation of the clear commitment and determination of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to complete the complete restoration and rehabilitation of houses and facilities that were destroyed in the earthquake that hit the Kingdom and parts of central Serbia in 2010. This is a responsible and serious relationship between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and what are citizens' life issues in the context that an elemental disaster cannot be the responsibility of only the current government in which the mandate took place. Unless a complete recovery and reconstruction ends in the government's mandate, it is the responsibility of each of the next governments until a complete reconstruction and recovery is completed. This is the responsible and serious relationship between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and what life issues are. So the governments and parliamentary majority in Serbia are variable, but the relationship to what life issues are, issues of essential and vital importance to citizens should never be and should never be variable. So, the government thus confirms both the willingness and the ability to solve what life is about citizens, but also the willingness and ability to lead an active policy, to meet problems and solve them. Three hundred and sixty-six families from the King will have a roof over their heads, and that will certainly have the support of the SPS Parliament Club. What is very important is that this agreement is confirmed in the Republic Parliament as soon as possible in order for this very important and important job, in the life interest of the citizens of the Kings, to be completed as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4968	Thank you. The People's Messenger Nenad Christmas has the word, and let the People's Messenger Vesna Markovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4969	Thank you. Dear MPs and representatives of the government, I will focus my exposure on the Loan Agreement with the Abu Dhabi Development Fund. The minister has already given one explanation that the agreement we signed resembles a typical agreement signed by the Fund probably with other countries. Most likely from that environment, since it has elements where it calls for, say, Secretary General of the Arab League and some other points of the contract suggesting that it is an agreement intended primarily for countries in their environment. As we know, Serbia is not a member of the Arab League and is not a member of any of these organisations that gather countries from the Middle and Middle East. In this agreement, there is a very interesting situation where it is said that if there is an accidental misunderstanding between the Contracting Parties, it is first suggested that the parties try to resolve the agreement, not to go to any trial, etc. But if they fail to resolve it, then an arbitration tribunal is formed that has three members. One member is appointed by the Serbian government on behalf of the Republic of Serbia, another member is appointed by the lender, the Abu Dhabi Development Fund, and a third member may vote by agreement, but if they fail within 60 days then the Arab League Secretary-General shall appoint the third member, who is otherwise referred to as the judge in the agreement. This didn't draw attention to the circus again, I don't think we should sign agreements like this that sort of put us in an unequal position. In my opinion, we should be looking for arbitration on the other side, not with the Secretary General of the Arab League. What is even more interesting about this agreement is one element relating to the confidentiality of documents where all documents, correspondence with the Fund, are considered to be confidential. What does "confidential" mean? Are they completely secret and not available to the public? Also, borrower i.e. The state of Serbia is obliged to provide the Fund with full immunity from censorship and to check publications. So they can check everything they want about Serbia, and we don't have any right to have any documents that we get out of them. I think that puts it in an unequal position. On the other hand, I believe that the reason why this loan is being taken is a flat-rate request to me that these government conclusions that you are calling here for this motion to vote on an emergency procedure, I think that the Assembly should get concrete information about why we are taking the loan, and not only because of the stabilisation of public finances. The minister tried to explain it to us, but I think the Assembly should get it documented in some numbers first and foremost, because we're also in charge of one very specific number, we said we were getting the loan, so we can take what we need. I would return to the urgency, and the urgency is that it is important to implement an agreement that has already been signed as soon as possible. I think that here all the laws that are passed by emergency procedure are passed for one reason, because the Assembly has not worked for a long time, and that's why it hasn't done that, we all know that. It could have been established in May, the government could have been formed, we could have had some extraordinary session in the meantime for all these emergency laws, if we already needed to bring them in, and now we have one normal paper, not every day we work after six and we do ineffectiveness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4970	The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4971	Just to be clear, this isn't the first time these questions have been asked, but it's important that we understand each other until the end. So, this loan of budget support is essentially no different from any other loan of budget support that Serbia has received so far or that former Yugoslavia has received as so-called. structural, programming, development and other loans of that type. They are given to support the budget in general. The funds lie at the expense of budgets and vaults or the National Bank or wherever they are in a country. The funds are available under the budget defined annually, here with several-year programmes approved by parliament under the budget procedure, under the Budget System Law, according to annual budget laws. The law provides, see Article 3, and we planned to borrow a billion dollars, even more so to have a reserve, because it will be available for funding the deficit, and by doing so, any of these purposes can be understood. Last time I said, I'm going to repeat, there are sub-types of loans to support the budget where they are required to attach these general funds to certain categories of expenditure, so someone's going to wait for you to have 100 million expenditures in health care, in education, in infrastructure, so they're going to refund it to you. That's right, this is general where they're not tied up and they're given. And given the circumstances, suppose, if we had a deficit of exactly 200 million, we could take this 200 million and finance it and we don't need any other sources of funding. Of course, in reality, it's never like that, and we've asked for the dynamics to be such that it coincides with the periods when we have the highest maturity of mandatory funding. Remember, we had a billion that was paid, it seems to me on 14 August 2014 so we had a huge increase in liquidity that we gradually used in line with our budget needs, with the needs of public debt and everything else. It's like giving someone general working capital, general funding money for something. The general support to the budget is exactly that, and that just means that you have a regulated budget where everything is defined. Otherwise, they wouldn't have given it to us. If you didn't have such a budget, you wouldn't qualify for such a loan. Secondly, we could have raised this billion ourselves, but not 2.25%, our credit rating is improving, our interest is shrinking, but we would still have paid at least another 1% more. Third, how much are we reducing the cost of existing loans? Suppose we don't want to pay interest, suppose tomorrow they forgive us all our interest and assume that tomorrow they forgive us all our loans, or anything that comes back in the next year, we can pay this back one billion too soon, saving an average of about 4 to 5% on each billion. So if we pay off the loans, I've cited examples that were taken in the 2010-2012 period, if we pay it off with this loan, and we can, we save $50 million a year for such a loan. Now, you do the math, that we're in debt at 2.25%, not 7.25%, we paid 50 million less all year round for interest only. That's what this loan offers us. If there is concern, if you think what is here is what is being instructed and it is being instructed by a discussion once that seems to be unwittingly formalized, which says you have good results, thinking about ten months and projected about people's heads, so you'll have a surplus by the end of the year, and we say by the end of the year we'll have a deficit of up to 2% of the conservative plan just because we expect a seasonal increase in payments in the last quarter and we expect to assume these debts that will be based on rational restructuring programs of these companies. Without that, we won't do it to them. As last year we took over the debt of "Serbiagas" and we need to maintain that, to maintain financial discipline. So there's a quad pro quo, you don't give a shit all the time. It doesn't seem right to me, we can disagree on a lot of things, but we have to disagree on rational things, not creating an illusion that something is the way someone talks, not the way it is. So, in a given situation, since we have 24 billion debt and because our average debt price is much higher than this, it's very useful for us, these are resources for which there are no limits and we can use them for what we want, these are the funds that we reduce the debt price, these are the funds that offer all of this. Why the Arab League? As the World Bank has its board of directors, where the countries that are the founders of the country's capital have 24 chairs to decide on, so each development fund has its own board and this one happens to be such that the Arab League is the one who decides on this policy. Also, when the EU gives you a loan to support the budget, the European Commission decides. Just like if the Russian Federation gave a loan to support the budget, Dum or someone else's decision there. There's nothing weird about it, it's perfectly normal and logical. What's more, their fund is fully open, has a triple world rating, means tripple A, the best rating in the world. That's why we've been waiting, so we've been in a hurry, after every decision they make, goes to the approval of an international board of directors who, the league decides on big things, this board director has his own internal audit, internationally as well. They want people to preserve their tripple A and they want to preserve a fixed course that has existed between the dirham and the dollar since 1997. Therefore, they are one of the most qualitative institutions, which is regional, but is hyper-quality. Why are they investing in Serbia? Because they want to invest in a country that is successful, they want to support a program that is successful and I think they want us to have a chance to implement this program without squishing and without looking for more expensive sources of funding. I think those are all positive elements. If this Parliament thinks there's any hidden part of the agenda, I can assure you there's nothing there. Memoranda of understanding, which are signed a year earlier, that's how they're signed. Someone first settles in principle, and then it is concreteized through project loans and through software loans. It's not unusual that the project loan was defined at about $400m, so it was realised, unfortunately, just a little under 100. Not because there's no money, but because we're unable to design and prepare projects for more. So no one is defending us, they asked me, when I was there for the talks – why aren't you preparing projects? They say they're flexible and irrigation and every other essential element of the agricultural infrastructure, they say -- why don't you want to invest? They can't tell us where we're going to invest, it's up to us, 300 million stands untapped. It is not true that we pay for it, we pay for it nothing, but we will pay for it with reputation, we will pay for the reputation, if it turns out that after a certain number of years we have to call that loan and say – we are unable to prepare, it will be the highest price. So we won't pay a dollar, but we'll pay by face, because people will say – Serbia is not capable, we offer on a plate, it's not able to use 100 million out of 400, or 400 million in total. It is a real question for both you and us and for the institutes and for the strategy in agriculture, etc. Finally, let me tell you, as far as the questions are concerned, you mentioned along the way and others mentioned, so on. A guarantee. The clause here mentioned by international organisations calls it the "money Pass of Clauses", and we call it the first order of creditors' status, such as those protected by mortgages. So, in international relations, they don't want them so much, they're not afraid that we're going to go bankrupt, they just don't want us to pay off everyone else if we're in financial difficulties and they're in the end. But they say -- we as a fund that gives you free funds want us to have the same status that has international financial organisations, which has the EU, etc. So I don't think we're even increasing the risk for ourselves. I don't think there's a risk of bankruptcy, and that they're asking to be treated equally, that someone doesn't put them, which they would say, in the third, fourth row of creditors, that's normal. They want them, they fight. That would have ruined their ratings. If the supervisory authority had looked at this and said to them, "You are giving credit, and if the country did not offer you the treatment of the first-row creditors, they would say, "Why are you helping this country at all?" Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4972	The word has been made by MP Vesna Markovic. On what basis, Mr. Radulovich? (Saša Radulovic, from the post: The minister mentioned that we are not well-intentioned. You have no right, Mr. Radulovich. I listened very carefully to the minister. (Saša Radulovic, from the post: The minister said this, that what we from the parliamentary group point to, I fear is not well-meaning. Well, if you say so, Radulovich, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4973	We really well-intentioned things, and I'm going to point the minister back to what our main objection is. In 2014, we took a billion dollars in debt, the same in dollars. I understand the Public Debt Administration needs to take care of that. (Dusan Vujovic, from the place: Repeat the sentence, please. ) We already took a billion dollars in 2014. What we don't have in your proposal, what we're afraid of, that if you take a billion dollars and don't use that money to pay off either the major in dollars or any other commitment in dollars, then you're exposed to currency risk. You'll admit, if we compare the dollar from 2014 and the dollar today, that a billion dollar loan was taken at an interest rate of 2.2% in 2014, because of the growth in the value of the dollar is equivalent to the euro amount of 700, 800 thousand, as it was then, at an interest rate of 15%, because the growth of the dollar actually makes up for it. Since you don't have it in your proposal, let's just say you didn't put it into the law, and our amendment is that if you took a billion dollars in debt, that you could just pay your debts in dollars and make your loans in dollars, that we wouldn't get lost by RTB Bora, Petrochemy and all those other ones for not implementing structural reforms actually put us in a position to be in debt in dollars and then we have to actually pay those dollars for those losses. We asked for this amendment, to protect the budget and look for answers to these questions, not on purpose, but on good faith, because we want to take care of Serbia's budgetary position. We think that, say, the amendment that we've submitted, that this loan is only used to pay off in dollars, is something that's useful.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4974	The word has Minister Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4975	You made a similar suggestion at the previous session where there was a general debate and you came out of the O.R. because of another debate, and I wanted to answer that. You mentioned the question of currency risk, structures, etc. And then I didn't get a chance to answer you, and I was already ready. So you're absolutely right, we have no intention, because we don't have good currency risk management mechanisms, we don't want to change the currency structure of the debt. So either we're going to pay back our liabilities in dollars, or we're going to pay off our current liabilities in dollars too soon, we have no reason or basis, based on our knowledge, our techniques and our capabilities, to actively manage the currency risk, we're not going to come to that risk. For the longer term, we want to systematically increase participation and bring debt participation into line with the structure of our export revenues, means where greater participation will be the euro, that we have this natural hedge, that we earn, because we earn in euros, 70% of our exports dominate in euro, many countries have a more active policy of managing currency risk, and that is a completely legitimate issue, because I think it's too technical. So, I totally agree, it's a whole question that's an integral part of our strategy and public debt management. We intend to improve both technical and personnel our Public Debt Management Administration, which will have both front office and main office and back office, which will deal with all the most modern institutions dealing with, among other things, investment, investment, currency risk and all other things. We here because we haven't developed it yet, we're not going to take new risks, but we're going to use these funds to reduce the cost in the context of the current currency risk. So where the situation is pure gain, it means the same debt in dollars, but lower interest and thus lower cost. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4976	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4977	Sasa Radulovic did not explain what he did while he was the minister of the economy to solve the problems in Azotara and solve the problems in "Petrochemija". (Saša Radulovic, from the place: On what basis? He did not explain to us whether he paid taxes in the United States. I see he knows American dollars. I can see that he understands the cursive differences. He didn't explain... (The MPs of the DJB group applaud. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4978	Go on, MP. MP, go ahead if you want. No, I don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4979	I mean, there's a performance going on, so it's time for people to end up with it, and maybe they're shooting a video.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4980	Don't spoil it. Okay, but he's been gone a minute. Never mind. Second time, MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4981	So, Mr. Sasa Radulovic did not explain to us what he did as a minister of the economy to solve problems in the companies he mentioned, and until today we did not get an answer to the question why and why he was pulling capital out of the companies that were in bankruptcy and why he concluded contracts with himself, that is, with his own firm and with his wife's company, about providing accounting services to companies that were in bankruptcy. As a result, the SNS parliamentary group does not want lessons on how and under what conditions the state of Serbia should be in debt to thieves such as Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4982	Thank you. (Saša Radulovic, from the post: The Injury of the Rules of Procedure. No injuries to the Rules of Procedure. No, there isn't. They were so correct that they gave up on the Rules of Procedure for disrupting speakers all the time in their speech. (Saša Radulovic, from the post: I have the right to harm the Rules of Procedure. No, no, no, What member, let me see if I can give you? Is it abuse? Name a member only. (Saša Radulović, from the post: Members 106, 107, there are so many members. Oh, not so many members. He can't. Then nothing, if you're going to humiliate parliament... (Saša Radulovic, from the post: I said two members. Article 106. - don't talk about the darkness. Article 107. - He mustn't be offended. Therefore, the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You don't know the Rules of Procedure. This is abuse, two minutes less of your group. (Saša Radulović, from place: Members 106. and 107.) I'm giving you a warning about the obstruction of Parliament's work. The word is Vesna Markovic. (National MP Sasa Radulovic applauds. ) (The MPs of the DJB Group applaud. ) I give you a second warning about the disturbance of Parliament's work at today's session. (The MPs of the DJB group applaud. ) I also give you a third warning for obstructing Parliament's work at today's session. You know what three warnings mean. (Saša Radulović, from the post: Bravo, President! Thank you. Thank you. You've figured something out. Do you know what three warnings mean? (Saša Radulović, from town: Shame on you! Shame on you! Don't talk to me. Shame on you! You know, the other MPs, which means saying three warnings. I'm setting a break by 3:00. Until then, the Messenger will understand what it means to give three reminders after each other. So we'll be back to work in 15 hours. Anyway, the minister asked me to take a break at 1 3:45 to complete the commitment. It matches the regular break, so we'll be back to work at 3:00. Until then, the Messenger will see what is written in the Rules of Procedure, and what is the wording of three warnings in a row. Thank you. [[After a break.]] We're going back to work. I'm asking MP Vesna Markovic if she would have started, the ministers entered the building. Can we get started? (Goran Ćirić, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. You're wrong. Here you go. I apologize to Ambassador Vesni Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4984	Dear President, I'm advertising Article 109. The Rules of Procedure of the Work, which defines, in what way is the reminder given to the Messenger of the people. Here, I will read this article, to give notices to an MP who approached the speaker without permission from the President of the National Assembly, who spoke before he asked and received a word, who, in addition to the warning of the National Assembly, does not speak about a question that is not on the agenda, if he interrupts or throws a speaker, or interferes with a speaker who directly addresses another MP if he uses swearing and offensive expressions, if he presents facts and assessments relating to the private life of other persons. These are all provisions initiated by the needy MP Sasa Radulovic to request a breach of the Rules of Procedure, as the previous speaker gave a direct qualification and accused him of being the greatest criminal and liar. If those are not offensive words to be sanctioned in this Rules of Procedure, I really do not know what is needed to hear in this congregation in order to sanction such a way and such a speech. I think that for a mature debate on such important topics, it is necessary to provide enough tolerance in this Assembly, a sufficiently acceptable atmosphere that can be discussed in a manner of arguments, not in a manner of personal insult. So, Sasa Radulovic, as an MP, was provoked by such a type of accusation, you did not sanction it, and then within a very short period of 10 seconds you gave three warnings. I don't think that was an adequate relationship, at least not a little equal to the previous speaker, the MP from the ruling party and on the other hand, one of the heads of the opposition's parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4985	Thank you. Just tell me what, I didn't understand at all what Article 109 was broken into. So he spoke before he asked and got the word, threw, disturbed the speaker, otherwise threatened freedom of speech, directly addressed me, shouting and insults, you heard nothing, of course, because it does not apply to someone from, obviously here minorities who are trying to disable this Parliament's work. It's clear to me, it's allowed, but to a certain limit. Obstruction is one thing, and what happened today and what happened at the last and the previous session, it's not just the impressions of what happened for about 20.30 seconds and two minutes as long as it took. Therefore, the harassment of those MPs who wish to participate in the work, which is the vast majority in this House and other proceedings, violated order at the sitting and against the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, and encouraged members of its parliamentary group to act in the same way. There have been conditions to give one warning, other warnings, followed by insults to my account, less, I can bear, depends on who makes any insults, but I cannot bear to have chaos here, and it is my duty to give a third measure of caution called taking away words in the Rules of Procedure. So, if there was no such unbearable noise in this House, the MPs might have heard what Aleksandar Martinovic was trying to say in the first place, but he broke up for a few minutes and kept quiet and waited to stop or somehow put in order in this room, so that we could hear what he was going to say and he gave up. I don't know what to tell you, we've got different archaic looks here when someone's insulting, we only hear one side. But, okay, it is your right to believe that I have violated the Rules of Procedure and we will take it to the vote and we will see how many MPs share your opinion. It's the only democracy I know about, the vote. The word is Vesna Marković, and let Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović prepare. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4986	Dear Presidents, respected ministers, respected colleagues, I will talk about the Fund for the Western Balkans, because so far the most controversy, not only last week, is on the tide, but on committees, the most debate was on this topic. The Western Balkan Fund did not come overnight, it was the result of a Berlin process initiated by Germany three years ago, but it was also the result of a large engagement by our government which recognised the importance of improving co-operation in the region, both politically and economically. The first summit in Berlin, for the first time, brought together all the leaders from our region at the same table. After the Berlin summit, summits were held in Vienna and Paris, and thus other EU members supported and actively took part in the process. The agreements reached concern resolving bilateral issues, should not burden the EU accession process of candidate countries, then infrastructure projects and the establishment of a youth office that will certainly contribute to better learning and sharing of youth experience in the region. The continuity of these meetings has shown that there is, above all, a political will to carry out the agreed but that this is a new development opportunity for all of us. This is just one example that the Serbian government has shown its commitment to regional co-operation aimed at regional stability. The establishment of this fund provides us with the opportunity to develop cultural co-operation to promote and develop exchanges in the fields of science, research, education, promotion and development of youth development, promotion of sustainable development. The Western Balkans Fund's statute provides for these targets to be achieved through different forms of co-operation, particularly through financial support, cross-border and regional co-operation activities. We need a parallel development of infrastructure, better and faster integration, industrialisation development and only balanced development can boost economic growth and job creation. All of this that I've been talking about will contribute to the faster integration of our region into the EU. We have heard, as I have said, a lot of criticisms, concerning the mention of Kosovo with a star in the text of this agreement, and I really feel obliged to read the argument that reads because of the citizens of Serbia who are following this transmission – the Republic of Serbia, when signing the Agreement on the founding of the Western Balkans Fund, has submitted a declaration whose goal is double. First, that the conclusion of this contract cannot be understood as recognition of Kosovo's independence but that it is a territory under international administration which is an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. Secondly, to clearly point out the restrictions on the powers that temporary institutions of administrative Kosovo and Metohija have under UN Security Council Resolution 1244 adopted in 1999 and the constitutional framework for temporary self-government in Kosovo, the UNMIK Regulation since 15 May 2001. I truly believe that my colleagues will support the bill to confirm an agreement establishing the Fund for the Western Balkans together with the Statute of the Fund because I hope they have recognised the importance of setting up this fund for the development of our region.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4987	Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović, but be prepared Milisav Petronijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4988	We've been listening to the discussion for several days about new and new lending and new loans. I want to convey to the Serbian public that this is simply inadmissible, since I come from the inside, and I want to say that living in the interior is very difficult and that this kind of thing, as it is now in the country of Serbia, does not allow to borrow a single cent, let alone as many millions or as many billions. Why? Because of all these loans and from all these loans, the people, or the citizens, have not seen anything, they have not felt anything better, nothing has been given them, they have no better living conditions, and they are wondering why and why these loans are still this big. What I'm trying to say is that the finance minister was brought in as one of the great experts and was expected to do exactly the opposite, to solve the issues and to solve all those problems that existed in Serbia until 2012, especially the collapse of private enterprises from 2008 to 2012, and that you did nothing, but you just did not, however, have been from 2012, were other ministers, but I am talking about the SNS and the way it was run its policy. The policy led by SNS, of course, completely, that we do not condemn as Serbian radicals cannot say, but it is simply contrary to our views, because we believe that we have enough natural, our resources, and as far as agriculture and natural wealth, spas etc. Water or whatever, we have 500,000 at the end of registered agricultural households, which, if we only employed five times, that's already two and a half million employees, and we've given out of all these loans, according to old DS practice, or G 17, which was then led by these finances, in their old practice, we've given foreigners 10,000 euros to be able to hire our people, so, by one worker. What are they doing? They do their job, pick up the Kajmak and leave. And where did that money come from? That money is actually taxpayers' money from our budget. And the taxpayers' money collects? It gathers from VAT daily, each of us who goes to a grocery store for 500 dinars today, five times two ten, leaves a hundred dinars to the government of the Republic of Serbia, or the budget. That money had to go back to the people, through proper distribution, and you were actually giving and praying today and asking foreign investors to come and invest some money and to open some factories next to our capable people and our capable private entrepreneurs and our local minds that we have. I cannot understand that Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic did not recognize anyone in the country of Serbia as a smart man and that he had appointed him as an adviser or that he had set someone from the real sector to be able to suggest what was really wrong with him, but you're doing it somehow through some agencies and you're doing it through some intermediaries, not knowing what was really wrong with our man. Since I come from the interior, specifically from the city of Kralje, I can tell you that there is much missing there, not only in the town of Kraljevec, but also in Kragujevac, missing in Tristenik, missing in Kruševec, missing in little Alexandrovac, missing in Bruce, missing in all of Rasinski, Moravik, in all the districts, means in all of Serbia, meaning central Serbia. What I'm trying to say is that the SRS has a brand-new model, how to get out of the crisis, and that's not this model, but a model of relying on our domestic resources and our home mind. What we want to say, but well-intentioned, is that you seriously consider the way, the way forward to the EU, means, most seriously, and that what Professor Vojislav Seselj told you this morning, to open the topic here on Euro-Asian integration and to open up the topic of turning towards Russia. Every average citizen of ours, in particular, asked me about people who have registered rural households, ask why we don't have organized agricultural production and why our government doesn't make some international contract with Russia, because there's a customs-free zone there, and why don't we, as small agricultural producers, team up and place our goods where it's most needed? So we don't have an answer to that question, and I'd like you to have an answer to that question. What do we tell people why you don't do it? It is obvious that you have certain pressures or obligations, or perhaps it is your desire to go this way, and we feel like you don't think about the citizens of Serbia. Your data, your comparative data, your statistics, etc. The people understand neither what they have. In addition to this many countries in charge, where under the Budgetary System Act we must not be in charge of more than 45% of GDP, you are in charge of 72-73% of GDP. Well, that goes right into bankruptcy. Is there any financial institution in the EU at all or anywhere with which you have not entered some credit arrangement? For what? We're just wondering why and we just want to tell our citizens that this isn't just politics or some political struggle here in the Assembly, so now we're moving to the citizens, so we say, well, we have a solution. We really have a solution. Believe me, every average citizen has a solution. Every average man who lives in the country and has little land, he has a solution. But first of all, I'd ask you if you've ever run a farm home or if you've ever run a small company and seen how hard it is to live in this country and see how hard it is to run? What I wanted to tell you otherwise, and I can't because I don't have time to deal with these points of the agenda, is that this app credit for small and medium-sized enterprises, that it's a clear farce and according to what it says in the contract, means that only the European Investment Bank takes care of who's to be placed, and the National Bank has to do all the other administrative things that are related to that loan. But if we know that this same credit was taken twice in 2011, 2009 and 2013 and 2014, when you were in this story, and we as MPs or even citizens, we have no feedback on where that money was spent and what the state has given in that way, or borrowed in that way. Have these companies strengthened the tax system and have these companies filled our people's register, or budget? So it's very difficult for you now in Serbia to convince someone that something private can be done. No, there's nothing to do. Why? Because we have a monopoly in our country. We don't have a free market. The free market is for foreigners and it is for foreign goods and it is for foreign chains. We don't have anyone in our country except one company that's held up, and we all know it's the "Dis" from Krnjev, and how a man fights on this market, etc. It is difficult to enter, for example, into "Merkator" or a chain, so when music is heard and said – goat cheese from Slovenia, Croatia etc. Then I wonder, wait, so much rope in our country, that we don't even know the skin to feed on you, let alone make that cheese and place it. In order for us to place our product in such a trade chain, you well know that we have to pay between 1,000 and 2,000 euros per item, per bar code, right? And imagine that someone has five products and I need to pay 10,000 euros or you produce something and you have five products and you have to pay 10,000 euros "Ideji", "Merkator" or anyone to find your product on that shelf. When are you going to make that 10,000 euros? After a year, what do they say? They say -- well, you know, we have to break the contract, because this product of yours doesn't go, we have competition of other products of a similar kind. Let us not mislead the citizens of Serbia that something private can be done in this country. It can, but only those who are close to the authorities, and it's on the terms of specialized services or contracts, where you have found a system of various projects where you hire and where they, of course, apply for certain funds and you, of course, are in charge, etc. Then I wonder how it would have been, how you went to Nis now, how you went, as the whole government, how it would have been, not just me, but given to me by the citizens, I'm someone who's from the people and who's always with the people, especially when it comes to the King's District and the Copalnik, etc... I know how farmers live, I know how small businessmen live, I'm one of them, and that's why I'm saying it from personal experience. And then someone gave me a proposal, so he says, how about, how nice they went to Nis, show how they can wash themselves, where they can wash themselves, where they can sleep, how we give them these conditions, every minister, one house K-5 or one-story, you can get two kids, one student, one school age, where there's no college in the interior, but in Belgrade, give you credit to start doing something, that you have a sick mother or a sick father, that you don't have any income and get that family out of the crisis and raise kids. Who would do this to you ministers could pass by to be the minister in this government in the next term. As far as the Kings are concerned, let me just tell you that the King is in a very difficult situation, but what is the same about us is buying wood on a bag, if you didn't know it, wood on a bag. Then let me tell you that we have almost 40% of the unemployed, to tell you that we have an inflow of 30,000 refugees from Kosovo, and that no one has helped us raise or resolve the issue of infrastructure, because you know that this is the impact on the infrastructure of a city, that we had the earthquake we had, but what we didn't have, and what was expected of you? We didn't have a balance sheet, we didn't have anywhere to spend the money. Why didn't you, as a state, ask yourself that he burned down the third floor, that he burned down all the documentation, that the DS was in power then, why didn't you examine all the conditions as it happened and whether the money was spent on purpose? If the money's spent on purpose, then everything's fine. That doesn't mean you shouldn't give this loan. This loan certainly needs and must be given for the King. Not only this loan, but I ask you to put into the budget in 2017 some investment that is related to the city of Kraljevo and its surroundings. The city is a potential for agriculture, for economy, for the economy of each species, for tourism, etc. Moravian corridor that was supposed to be made, Velija Ilic concluded a contract with the Chinese a few years ago. After that, the United Arab Emirates appeared, where they said they would work and then shut themselves down. The king was shut down as a center, the king was once a center, and now it's closed on every possible basis. We don't have a road, we don't have a highway, we don't have an institution, we don't have an airport, the question is when will it open? And that airport, what's up? The Turks are looking for our airport for 20 years. You don't organize agricultural production, you don't know where and what can be produced, and then what do you do? You're just in charge. That's no longer allowed. We Serbian radicals have another concept of getting out of this crisis, because this borrowing only leads further and further. No one's debt was a friend. You, Minister, know very well. I think you should think more practically when it comes to an ordinary citizen of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4989	The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic, a replica, so Minister Dr Vujovic, answers.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4990	The esteemed chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, and since it was mentioned by the SNS, what needs to be answered by the colleague is that what we have found, and these are too many debts, occupied by the economy of all possible loans, both individuals, citizens and complete businesses, has created one great obligation for us to, first of all, create a legal environment for domestic companies to work, in order to be able to withdraw certain subsidies, or create new jobs, since subsidies are being withdrawn exclusively for new jobs. And we've worked very hard on it, especially when it comes to part of the privatisation. It should be said that 750m euros went to enterprises in restructuring and bankruptcy and privatisation each year, which were 558. That procedure is over. The economic growth, which is actually a decline, of 3.6%, had to be turned into economic growth, which is now 2.7% and all that we have done through legal solutions together with the Serbian government and Mr. Alexander Vukic over the past years has been essential to the changes that have been shown in our work scores, which has been assessed by international financial institutions positively. Anyone here in the O.R. wants to downplay SNS results not telling the truth. On the other hand, what amazes me is that my colleague, who is from the King, needs to talk practically about a bill that finances the construction of 336 apartments, or for thousands of people who are the result of some policy that lasted until 2012, where politicians did not then do their job and therefore should support it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4991	The word has a minister, Vujovic. (Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović, from town: Replica. First Minister Vujovic, then you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4992	I think it is important to understand what is a concrete discussion about today's agenda, and what are the discussions coming out of this agenda. Because citizens are watching this, I'm going to have to answer those things that aren't part of this agenda, just to know where they belong. I would ask you to be consistent in that criticism, or suggestion, no matter what it is. I absolutely don't mind the difference in opinion, but it's important for a productive dialogue to understand what you're saying, to understand what points you're criticizing and what you're proposing as a solution. If I confront you with what you said you didn't do first, you say two sentences later – you did a lot, and all of this wrong, those two things are not consistent with each other. The second thing I want to ask you is that you always have in mind the condition in which we inherited things. I wouldn't even be thinking about being in this government if I hadn't listened to the campaign before the March 2014 elections and I hadn't heard the announcement that it would be an attempt to make a programme, an actual economic reform programme. I've already retired, and I could have enjoyed my retirement so I wouldn't bother here, I came here for patriotic reasons to help my country the way I know it. I allow there to be different approaches to the problem, to get out of the crisis that we were in, but don't judge the depth of the crisis we were in at the beginning of that process. Remember very well where we were when the elections were in March 2014. I remember a very good day. On July 15th, I was assigned to the acting Minister of Finance. The next day on July 16th, Bloomberg asked me for an interview and they asked me, "What do you have to offer from the positive things that are going to happen?" I looked at the things that were happening and I told them one of the things, which is, we already have a signed contract, I expect in a month, and that's how it happened, we get a billion dollars from the previous loan, which is the twin brother of this loan from the United Arab Emirates. The answer was, and you can check it out in the paper, Mrs Filipovic wrote – that means, analysts tell me, that means that in 78 days you're going to postpone bankruptcy. That was a perception back then. I mean, the perception was -- the ship is leaking, it's in front of the hills, and we're just gonna buy a few days of life before the end. So, we're not leaving the situation where we could choose, we're not leaving the situation where we're the only one in the region that gives someone incentives for new jobs, that's what the others do. We're not leaving a situation where we don't have a debt, so we're in charge. All of this is refinance. We did it last year, when we were counting on what's-his-name. The need for gross debt and what would be net at the end of the year turned out to be a billion and something reduced the need for borrowing. That's not good, but you still have to hear us, when we say, refinance is not a new borrowing. Well, it's not realistic to pay 24 billion in one year, everybody knows that. We say every year for the next five, six years about four, four and a half billion dollars in debt. We'll pay back as much as we can surplus and as much as we grow a social gross product, we'll return, but we can't return at once. So that part we're not returning, we have to refinance. What we're trying to do, we refinance it in the best possible way, the longest, best-quality, at the lowest interest rates to bring that debt cost closer to the German debt cost that is higher in percentages of the social product than ours, but their relative debt price is much lower because they're in debt at very lower rates, we just want to do it. There are very few countries in the world that have no debt at all. We want to lower the average price of the debt and the average interest rates from the front, which was 4%, 5%, to bring it down to below 2% or 2%. So, he can't disappear overnight, but we can permanently reduce the cost of that borrowing every day and get on a road where there won't be any more. In the part where you mention a whole series of vignettes and what's the interest of people, look out, believe me, if we hadn't come from that, we wouldn't have made this program. Our goal after three years is to make everyone better, otherwise this would be pure masochism. Why would we go into a non-popular program if we didn't have a goal of getting the country out of trouble and everybody would feel it. That absolutely, be careful, I wouldn't agree to such a program. It's just that some people think it's possible for it to be simpler, without victims, etc. I don't know any better. We reduce responsibility, we reduce dependence on foreign investors and their will, and it's not our fault. We inherited the situation where it all happened. Let me tell you another thing. You suggest we be part of the Euro-Asian integrations, so when we do, we're also in debt, and they can't do it without capital, so we take credit there. Here's a loan for the Russian railways, and they can't do it without it. There's interest rates up there than 4.1% here. Ten years is a loan that is the Russian government's export credit for Russian railways, to perform our work with us. These are the terms, and this is 2.25% and they're free money, and they're not free money. Don't think, so I'm telling you, and the Russian Federation, by respecting the same principles, told us after two years – sorry, you failed the program with the Fund, we no longer have the basis to extend your budget support, and the third tranche of that loan has been said – we are abolishing. So the same rules people follow. Now we're not talking politics, we're talking about Mr. Siluanov, the financial part of the Russian Federation, which seems to me to be good that they behave predictablely, rationally, etc. There's no free lunch, as Americans would say, believe me. I want us at the lowest cost to get out of it. Are we going to help the village? Well, yeah, I think we should, but we shouldn't waste money on extensive subsidies that were defined at the time of socialism when we needed not know how many million grains for the rest of Yugoslavia. We have too much food in Serbia. We should grant subsidies in agriculture, and in the King, among other things, to support what makes big income. My cousin, he tells me, makes eight thousand euros per hectare making nuts, and you can make 500 euros on wheat. So now you see if you want us to support the constant production of wheat. It's not bad either. Or our goal is to go to more valuable products, organic production, to take advantage of everything we have that's good. So that's where we totally agree, it's just a question of how long it takes between the steps that from where we are today, we get where we want to be, and that's not overnight, believe me. So, we've already mentioned today, we had a debt of 22 billion and 100 when we started this program. When I went to Washington on October 1st to seek the support of the Fund because it was important to us to convince the parties, as you need a mentor when you do a doctorate, not because you're stupid, but because he trusts you when you're done, you'll have credibility, you don't have it before. We're in a situation where it all happened, we had to have a mentor, figuratively speaking, and we got a mentor from the highest level, the most qualified man at the David Lipton Fund agreed to our program before the Fund administration looked at it. So we went to the big door with a big proposal to have real structural problems besides macroeconomic, macroeconomic problems. That's one. Two, we started out of the hole, except for these financial problems, we had a negative economic growth in that third quarter. Remember, the floods were, it all stopped, - 3.5%, we left the well and it was dry. We have now come to a situation so that we can think about many things and now we have many opportunities. That's all we want. The third thing I want to ask you as an economist, and today Mr. Neđo Jovanovic said well, on the legal side, and that's always the alternative. If the alternative is not to be in this agreement and without it being a starless Kosovo, it is worse for us not to be than to be. So that's the point. In the world you have today that you can choose between the options that are ahead of you. It would be best if we could get the wheel of history back and pick a better time to start all this, but that happened, you understand? That's over. We only have a chance today that the situation we're in is getting this country back all we can. Some people try to get it back into institutions, legal status, and some in the economy. They call me friends, the people I worked with ten years ago, who happen to work for some international consultant from Mongolia, from here on out, they say -- help us define the programme as Serbia. So now we become a model where people say we can create a program to succeed, to give economic growth, to give fiscal consolidation and everything else. This is not an ideal programme, but this is a programme which, using international experience applied in Serbia, gave the results it gives. In order for that to work, and that's the part I need, we don't have to agree, but at least in one part we have to agree, what's the interest? I'm talking exclusively about economics, we talk a lot in this House, what is the national economic interest? That's where we're supposed to make a deal, that's where we don't have to argue with each other, and in those shades where we can discuss it as much as you want. I'm ready to talk, define various development strategies and apply. Believe me, some who have very good wishes don't pass such an easy test of application. This is the worst of all, as one of my colleagues says – the sea heating project, when you arrive early in the season at sea and the water is too cold, the sea heating project is very simple, but the application is difficult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4993	Thank you. (Vesna Nikolic Mihajlović, from town: Replica. ) Milorad Mircic has a Rules of Procedure. Him first.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4994	I am advertising an infringement of Article 104(2), where it is said - if the objection refers to a parliamentary group or to a political party, then on behalf of that parliamentary group, that is, the party's president. You gave the word to counterpart Tomic, who is a representative of the parliamentary group, but is not the president, the authorised representative, but is not the president, and the Rules of Procedure are precise and clear. I don't mind a colleague defending the views of his political party, but we still have to stick to the Rules of Procedure. Whether the remark was in place or not, the president of the parliamentary group should answer that question. And if the archin is in line with the Rules of Procedure for all parliamentary groups, then it must also be the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group. On the side of the fact that we've been listening for who knows which time the Minister's tyrado has surpassed... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4995	The breach of the Rules of Procedure does not apply to the minister as well as to the way he exhibits it. All MPs are very skilled at adding a few more things. I know Mr. Mircic, we've known each other for a long time, so we know our abilities together, it's not a problem. [[Milorad Mircic, off the mic.]] You want me to answer that? I have to answer that. So you've quoted Article 104 correctly, but what you've said is not in place, so there are powers. It is authorized for this point in front of the Serbian Progressive Party, Aleksandra Tomic. Also, according to our Rules of Procedure, he draws all the powers of the head of the parliamentary group, who, then, if they're both in the O.R., can't answer. (Milorad Mircic, from the place: Replica. There's no replica on this. So the President of Parliament answers you, says his position, and it's up to you to just vote or not. It's the Rules of Procedure. So I couldn't let Alexander Martinovic speak when he was authorized. Read the Rules of Procedure and here it writes - the authorised representative draws all the powers, means the rights and obligations of the head of the parliamentary group when the authority of the other. Otherwise, there are groups that don't empower anyone because of it, and then there's the boss and the deputy. Dot. Should we vote or not vote? Let's vote, of course. You have no right to a replica there was nothing offensive, no misreading, nothing. It's just an answer. Thank you very much. Thank you for your instruction, but the President of Parliament still has to decide something. Well, now I've decided. The word has been made by MP Milisav Petronijevic, the next is Aleksandra Djurovic, behind him.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4996	Dear Presidents, respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the SPS parliamentary group has announced its position through our colleagues in the debate so far, i.e. it will give full support to proposals to confirm all six agreements or contracts, already depends on what it is. My colleagues have made an argument as to why we want to support it, and I'm going to stick to just a few more questions. First of all, when it comes to the loan from the Abu Dhabi Development Fund, I want to say that I view the billion-dollar loan, which is equivalent to a billion-dollar loan, as a domestic business or respect, whatever you want, of the Serbian Government. Why? Because it takes a cheap loan, with an interest rate of 2.25% without any additions, to pay back the cost of 6% to 8% of loans or dollar loans or to carry out dollar commitments. It's a domestic business for me. Why? Because taking that loan to refinance, taking that loan to settle the set is not an increase in debt. On the contrary, it's savings. The loan allows Serbia to save $50m. What does that mean? This means that those $50 million, which would have the obligation to repay foreign loans with high interest, can invest in capital facilities, in economic development, in social policy or anything else. It's good for Serbia, it's domestic. Such as confirmation of household behaviour and implementation of fiscal consolidation in general, realisation and economic reforms. The government set many economic goals and implemented them. I'm just going to make a few arguments that will confirm that this has been the case too. So this year's public debt has been reduced by $650m, the deficit has been halved, the state of the budget instead of expected minus 900m euros is plus 240m euros. If GDP growth is added, given that instead of expected close to 80% of the debt level will be 70 comas something, then these are the government's results when it comes to financial and economic consolidation. Therefore, this loan, which goes towards further fiscal and macroeconomic stability, should also be fully supported, as it will affect the improvement of the economic situation in general and the achievement of the planned development. The second area that speaks of the commitment of the Serbian government is a loan for the King, for the resolution of the 2010 earthquake, the part that speaks of the government's commitment to social policy and the lives of ordinary people, so to speak. It is that this loan will allow the settlement of one in the Kingdom, which includes the collapse of 21 residential buildings which are in an irreparable state as an earthquake, the acquisition of apartments in four eight-story buildings for 366 families or about thousands of inhabitants, a permanent solution to the housing issue for those people who will get the same size, and those who had minimum, below the social minimum squares, who lived in apartments below the social minimum will be able to either rent or buy that additional area. So, one takes care of people who deserve support anyway. Very briefly when it comes to a loan relating to support for small and medium-sized enterprises, I mean a significant loan for a simple reason, although it is in fact a support for commercial banks to finance under favourable conditions for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, they even take risks, I think it is very important in another direction of government, which is investment and the creation of new jobs. That is why it should be supported, because small and medium-sized enterprises are the main source of employment and economic growth, it will continue to be so. They build economic power, raise entrepreneurship, create jobs, which is still the main and priority goal in this Serbia, contributes to the growth of GDP, which, as we can see, is successfully moving towards the three. It is therefore very important to support the loan in order to encourage the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. What's even more important is that half of it is foreseen here under the most favourable conditions for young people to be able to start small and medium-sized enterprises. Why does it matter? Regardless of the unemployment rate has been reduced, the largest number of young unemployed is however. That's why we need to give full support to this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4997	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4998	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, the laws we are discussing today certainly represent a different interpretation of what we should vote on. And when we are discussing today, it is essentially a different understanding of not the essence of the law, not of what we are going to vote on, but of the different conditions, that is, the environment in which we adopt these laws. Today and a few days ago, we could hear about the different understanding of the macroeconomic parameters in which Serbia is located. We discussed the fiscal policy and the results of the Serbian government's fiscal policy on public finances, as well as on global developments, i.e., above all, we dealt with financial markets, interest rates, currency relations, perceptions, and we pulled out every possible business and financial leverage from these perceptions. What is certain is that the financial situation in the world today is quite different, almost unusual in history. This is today a time that has its own deadline and will hardly happen again. If you start from the fact that today's real interest rates on the financial market are negative, so you have a situation that not only are real, but also nominal interest rates are down, today the monthly eurobor minus 0.371, then this is about a completely unusual situation that is ruling in the financial market. To simplify and explain. Never in mankind's history has one who has the resources to pay for using their resources. This is what is happening today on the global market and that is what the Serbian government and the Serbian Parliament should take advantage of. Of course, the reasons why such a situation is numerous and, of course, we can talk about excessive printing of money, the optimistic monetary policy that exists in certain countries, especially in four countries of one association. Of course we can talk about the existence of speculative money, accumulated wealth. But whatever was the reason for the low capital price in the financial markets, it should allow the state of Serbia to use the mechanisms available today as effectively as other countries can. When we talk about macroeconomic parameters, they've been measuring in Serbia for 70 years, and it's nothing new. If you follow the reports of the National Bank, the IMF, the World Bank, the Government, you get clear statistics and there is no need to discuss it. What we could hear very often in the public debate is that representatives of individual political parties, or MPs, when they talk about macroeconomic parameters, talk about a macroeconomic parameter. So we can hear that in certain moments in the state of Serbia, gross social product has grown and nothing is disputed, it can grow. Paul Samuelson, speaking of Kane's models in his award-winning Nobel Prize, "Economy" found that one macroeconomic parameter can be very easy to move up or down, but it is the essence of all three macroeconomic parameters. Practically, you could have had a GDP growth of 1.9% and an inflation rate of 6.5%. Serbia rarely, as never in its history, has a growth in gross social product for 2016 of 2.8%, has an inflation rate at the level of the European inflation rate, and to remind you that the National Banks of Serbia designed inflation for 2016 4 plus-minus 1.5%. You have an unemployment rate that's moving somewhere around 15.2% and is the best since the unemployment rate since 2007-2008. These are macroeconomic frameworks in which the state of Serbia is moving today. If you look at the results of fiscal policy, then you have the first time in the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2016 surplus. You have for the state Serbia the general cost of costing the state a relatively small deficit. Let me remind you that in 2014, Mr Vujovic, we went into fiscal consolidation with the idea that our deficit system general states would be below 3% and 2.9%, respectively, at the level of Mastricht. Today, after a year and a half, we have reached the country's 2.9% deficit, met the conditions and to tell you that the deficit rate for the European Union of 2.4 and 2.7%, respectively. So, even at the rate of the deficit from the cost of the state, we are in the ranks of the European Union. Interest rate. The reference rate at the Serbian state level today is 4%, never smaller in history, without any inflationary expectations. This is the second framework, i.e. the framework of functioning and the results of fiscal policy. When we talk about the level of duty, it moves to 70.8%. So small a percentage of the public debt that decreases talks about two things. First, that the gross social product is growing, and it leads to a percentage reduction, while at the same time in absolute terms the level of Serbia's debt has been reduced by 600m euros. When you look at another criterion, which is Serbia's degree of duty in relation to exports, you can also see that Serbia has never stood better. These are global and macroeconomic conditions with the results of fiscal policy, in which a set of five laws we are discussing today arrives. Practically, in ideal conditions for global financial market debt and not ideal conditions, but never better. I've ranked these laws about as important as I think they are. One of the first laws that we should vote on is certainly a law to build prisons in the town of Kragujevac, or a 17m-euro criminal and correctional institution. It's a 30m-euro package. The project was launched in February 2012. This is a continuation of solving key problems in the area. A similar prison was made in Panchev. Public procurement under this law will be made on the basis of a decision made by the grantee, the town of Kragujevac receives 30m euros in investments. Thirty million euros in the town of Kragujevac is certainly part of a project that implies Kragujevac remains the centre of the administrative region, with the emphasis being placed on the town of Kragujevac very quickly, the Kragujevac City Assembly has decided to define the location for the construction of the Palace of Justice and this will be the continuation of the trend. The second law is the Apeks Credit Act. People's MPs are right to say it's the fifth loan that comes in this form. It's about the second tranche of the fifth Apex loan and it's about small and medium-sized enterprises. The amount of funds used is 150m euros. We have already withdrawn the first 150m-euro tranche. After this 150m-euro tranche, we will also withdraw a third 200m-euro tranche. So for the fifth time, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, the SFRY, the state of Serbia, is taking credit like this. The credit is extremely favourable. It's about the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. The undeniable interest rate on the banking market at this point is low. The reason for this is the monetary policy measures of the National Bank of Serbia, which allowed the state of Serbia to have a low reference rate of 4%, and thus the loans were also cheap. The loan goes directly from the lender, through an agent of the National Bank of Serbia, to business banks, small and medium-sized enterprises that will receive funding for the development of fixed assets, crafts, for new projects with a special view, defined in the contract, to young Western Balkans. There is no possibility of any abuse. This loan is completely fiscally neutral, as far as the Republic of Serbia's budget is concerned. The responsibility for the operation of the loan is assumed by the commercial banks. If small and medium-sized enterprises do not collect financial resources, it will go to their risk claims. The third loan refers to the construction of 366 apartments in the King. Practically, eightm euros in two tranches will be withdrawn for one social policy and a solution to a problem that has not been resolved since the time of the King's earthquake. When we adopted the budget and entered fiscal reform in 2014, Mr Vujovic proposed a law on the budgetary system and then we said that the state of Serbia must have an administration that should move within the framework of the cost of expenditure for employees of 7% of gross domestic product. In the Republic of Serbia's budget, the amount is around 24-25%. So, the state of Serbia must understand that what provides them by the public sector cannot cost more than 7% of gross domestic product because the increasing price implies a reduction in the competitiveness of the Serbian state's economy. The 69m-euro law implies that we are trying to regulate a state administration that is not reformed, which is reformed, which has a mental set that implies that we cannot understand that socialism in public enterprises is no longer available. The real sector can't stand and the economy can't stand it, and farmers can't stand the price of public sector employees being above 7%. It is a direct blow to their efficiency, efficiency, and that means that if you can, it is not disputed, that expenditure on public sector employees is greater than 7%, but your competitive capacity of the economy will be much less. And, the last billion-euro loan we get is actually a "hech" fund. We're going to make a billion euros in the next one, so basically two, three years, every six months, if we're efficient and effective, we're going to make 200 million dollars, a fundamentally "hech" fund that will enable us to function more efficiently and secure the budget. When I was talking about laws today, I mostly didn't talk about any of the conditions we get out of these loans. Why? Because these loans are pretty unique. If you have such an interest rate, it ranges from 0.71 or 2.25, and inflation in the EU, which is planned for 0.2 and is going to be 0.4 because of the oil price rise, the forecast says, you actually have an interest rate of 0.4, and 1.8. Is there ever an interest rate, for the state of Serbia, with such references and such a functioning that it is so low? Did that ever happen? Practically, the other terms of the withdrawal of funds, when we will withdraw everything else regarding the loan, whether the loan is given to you by the European Investment Bank, the Council of Europe for Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, or the Abu Dhabi Development Fund, almost identical, conditions almost perfect, as if you have a credit rating A A A A. What does that mean? To measure the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the functioning of fiscal consolidation and macroeconomic parameters instill trust with different parts of investors, from different parts of the world, to believe what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing and what the prime minister of the Republic of Serbia is doing. It is simply that they would not place their resources in this way, and to remind you that only this summer, one of us neighbouring countries in the EU did not withdraw funding because the interest rates were unacceptable to it at that time. They ranged from 4% to 5%. So this is how perfect credit conditions practically mean that the Serbian government has confidence in fiscal policy and that these results are evident. Of course, it's never easy to borrow, it's never easy to take credit. In economic theory, credit implies that this is a problem, and the problem is that you pay the price. The cost of the loan is interest, on a delay, you want to have the immediate benefit of the revenue that you will receive in the future that is interest, but when you have a interest that is so low, it is practically no price for your functioning, then it is quite normal to use these mechanisms that are available to you today on the financial market. Which is why, it is not a matter of the Serbian Parliament to discuss. The thing of the Serbian Parliament is that as much as it can use the mechanisms that will allow Serbian citizens to be more efficient, better, to make the economic order in Serbia a better quality. What matters is, I think the essence of these five laws is actually in one sentence. Serbia is today starting to look like other countries in the EU, developed countries. We become like the others, we can be in debt under the same credit conditions, according to which the best countries are in debt, that we don't have an interest rate of 6.7 percent or more. Therefore, there is nothing left for the SNS parliamentary group, if they have given support to the Serbian government, almost all financial institutions, giving these types of credit, the SNS parliamentary group, of course, will always support it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u4999	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Aleksandra Djurovic, and let the MP Branislav Mihajlovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5000	The Honorable Chairman, ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, my colleague was just talking about five laws confirming the agreement. I am going to talk about this sixth, so the proposal for a law on the validation of the Western Balkans Fund, with the Statute of the Western Balkans Fund. This bill was also the subject of discussion on the Committee on Foreign Affairs and we could see by then that this is the topic that will be most politicized. Some of the basic things we see in the proposal, in the light of the proposal for this agreement, is that it is made according to the Visegrad Group's model of co-operation and integration of civil society, the academic sector, the integration of citizens with regard to cultural co-operation, education, youth exchange. We can see around the financing that the basis of funding concerns the equal distribution of foreign signatories, at 30,000 euros and 80,000 euros by the Visegrad Group. If we compare that to the Visegrad Group when the Multicity Group Fund was formed, we see that they were then, their distribution was 250 000 euros, and now it's two million euros each. So, they have increased that initial amount of distribution multiplely because they have certainly seen that one such way of association is both economically and in any other way profitable and now it is a fund, a serious fund with which they have. As for the signatories, we see they are signatories of five states and Kosovo. So it is absolutely clear that when we look at the whole text of the agreement that Kosovo is presented asymmetrically compared to the states of the signatories. It is clearly defined that Kosovo is a territory under international governance in the composition of the Republic of Serbia and Kosovo with footnote is precisely a way of strictly respecting the agreement on regional representation and co-operation. In every paragraph where Kosovo is mentioned, including in the part envisaged for the signatures of states and member states that have joined the Western Balkans Fund, there is a clear star with a footnote where it is clearly stated that this name does not affect the status position and is in line with UN Security Council Resolution 1244 and the International Court of Justice's opinion on Kosovo's declaration of independence. So this particular text stands in every place where Kosovo is mentioned. It is clear, and through an interpretative statement made by the Republic of Serbia in order to avoid misreading, that Kosovo is not treated as a state. We have had the opportunity to hear here, that they have accused us of signing such an agreement, by voting to confirm such an agreement, we recognise Kosovo's independence. We were also accused by anyone who voted in favour of such an agreement that it was treason. This is absolutely one malicious interpretation that has a clear goal of just sending messages to voters regardless of the consequences. And the consequences can be such that citizens living in Kosovo and Metohija really believe that it is true. Although I have no doubt in any way in the intelligence of our citizens who, in the elections this year, have shown their votes in the vast majority of SNS that these kinds of statements, flammable statements that are being sent, are usually not here from Belgrade, in fact, intended to help our citizens live safer and safer in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. If individuals here interpret this agreement as the signing of Serbia under the text of this agreement, as recognition of Kosovo's independence, how can we say that those countries that have signed this agreement, which have recognised unanimously declared independent Kosovo, such as Albania, Macedonia and Montenegro, have signed exactly where Kosovo is listed with a star and with this text that points to Security Council Resolution 1244. Does this mean that they recognise that Kosovo is not a state although their governments have previously recognised Kosovo. Whether representatives of Pristina who also signed here at Kosovo with a star, whether they also accept that they are not a state, are territory under the international administration of the Republic of Serbia. It's just that interpretation in the footnote that we can read. We must move within the limits of what is real and what is possible, not within the limits of the impossible. We are now not in 1996, 2006, this is the 2016 commitment of all of us to fight for our national interests within the limits of possible. All MPs who participate in the work of different international parliamentary organisations, if we talk from parliament about it, know very well how hard it is to fight for our national interests when you cross the borders of this country and go abroad, as a result of numerous attempts by friends and promoters of Kosovo's independence to fight for some of their rights and their interests. I have been leading a delegation to the Council of Europe since 2012, and I can say that this year, particularly intensive efforts have been made to give certain rights to the delegation of the Kosovo Parliament in the Council of Europe, so in January, when the resolution on Kosovo was adopted with the star, we met with different amendments that wanted to help in the positions of Kosovo representatives, so they were amendments that wanted to delete from that resolution the obligation to form a Community of Serb municipalities, so they wanted to erase the fact that their request in UNESCO was rejected. Although these are some things that we all here when we talk about, we think it's something that's undeniable, something that's a fact, when you come to Strasbourg, then you see these amendments and then in the tide in Strasbourg that the amendment is not the head of Albania's delegation, say, but it's the head of the Swedish delegation, and when you see that the difference between all the few votes was in favour of defending our apartments, then you realize that it's a difficult fight not only for us who work in parliamentary organisations, it's certainly less than the representatives of the states that go to Brussels to fight for our rights and how much each paragraph and every sentence for which the choice of the fruits of a hard work. If we look at how all of this is viewed by citizens living in the territory of KIM of Serbian nationality, especially Serbian nationalities, those living in minority territory, I am sure they see with great care what our dialogue with the representatives of Albanians is like. It is precisely from the content of this dialogue and whether it has it at all depends on the way they will live, whether they will live safer and better quality, or whether they will have a number of problems. That's what we need to keep in mind. Patriotism is not making flammable statements in the middle of Belgrade, but patriotism is fighting for the rights of Serbs, for a better and better life in both Belgrade and the KIM territory, and it is actually patriotism in action. By excluding ourselves as countries from such regional initiatives, we certainly cannot fight for our national interests, because if we look at what was an alternative to signing such an agreement, the alternative was that Serbia should not sign it, but then I am sure that it would stand there – the Republic of Kosovo. Is that something in our national interest? I would say that it is not and that it is very important that Serbia manages to deal with this agreement, the text of this agreement is formulated exactly the way it is, which is that Kosovo is presented so that it is clear to all those who have signed and to all of us who read this text carefully is clear that Kosovo is not treated as a state. This is a continuous reconciliation process that has lasted since 2000 when we had the opportunity to see the establishment of the Stability Pact for Southeast Europe, and then the Regional Council for Co-operation came, so the Berlin Process and now we have this Agreement on the establishment of the Western Balkans Fund. This is all in terms of good neighbourly co-operation, regional integration and certainly, there are two other extremely important reasons why it is important that there is a quality of dialogue in this area. One is on the economic side, and that is that we have the largest surplus as a country with countries in the region and that each of the countries individually represents one small market, all together when we perform and when we join together, then we are one more serious market, so that we are attractive to foreign investors. Another extremely important reason is the security reason, because precisely at the time we live, and these are numerous threats of terrorism all over Europe, not only in our region, it is very important that there is a quality dialogue with everyone in the environment so that we can respond to all potential threats in a real and preventive way. So, I will certainly vote on this agreement and these previous agreements, therefore, all six agreements which are the subject of today's debates to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5001	Thank you. The word is by MP Branislav Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5002	Thank you, President. In 2011, a legal debt limit of 45% was breached and since then public debt has been constantly and permanently growing to this day. It now stands somewhere between $24 billion and $25 billion, and with all these duties, these five laws we're adopting these days, worth billions and $280 million, that's going to get close to the $26 billion border. In this hall, Minister Vujovic said two weeks ago that the government's participation in this debt from 2012 to today is around 9.3 billion. With these billions and 280 that share rises to about $10.5 billion, or proportionally, from $10 in debt, four dollars has been made by this government since 2012 until today, and six dollars belongs to all other governments from Tito to 2012. Due to uncontrollable public debt growth, the question arises – is there a long-term public debt management strategy in this country? I couldn't find that strategy anywhere, and I don't think it even exists. The Public Debt Administration issued a short-term three-year strategy, saying 2016. – In 2018, public debt must remain below 76%. The basic question arises – what is the degree of sustainability of the long-term borrowing policy? And there's no clear answer. This raises an even more important issue, the sustainability of the country's economic development, as it is widely known that public debt growth increases economic instability and the danger of the country's economic development. Therefore, public debt growth is stifling the country's economic progress and increasing overall financial instability, not to mention that third factor, to open the door to corruption at the highest level. I therefore ask the question of the Minister – do you and the new Government feel responsible for the permanent and illegal growth of public debt, the lack of a long-term public debt management strategy and the country's leading to growing economic instability as a consequence? To conclude, new borrowings and public debt growth in a situation where public debt is almost double the law allowed for 45% of GDP, without a long-term return strategy, I consider it directly against the vital interests of this people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5003	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5004	I hate to break it to you, but the term illegal, the term you're using is not adequate. Your bill is completely wrong. We will these days finalise a fiscal strategy that will provide a full projection of the public debt movement, taking into account the repayments of the existing debt by the dynamics of maturity, the taking of new borrowing, the payment of all interest, all commitments, the service of all existing loans and the payment of these documents issued by the state. There you have a detailed... last year's strategy, to take a closer look. It's a much more complicated calculation that you've done, that you've taken the existing amount and added the sum of all these loans to it. That may seem true to you, but it's completely wrong. The sum of these figures gives that figure, but this is not the state of debt in 31.12.2018, when this loan will end, under one. Two, what does illegal mean? I remind you, but since this is a serious topic and people are looking at it, the subject is like this – we have defined in the Budget System Law 45% of the social product debt as a sustainable debt level, given the debt price then, given our needs and the deficit level, given everything else. Meanwhile, we've been targeting Mastricht for a year and a half, 60%. We need to change the Budgetary System Act and adjust it. We are so close today to the cost of borrowing Western Europe that there is no longer any need for us to put that additional restriction on ourselves. Then people didn't know how to limit the risk of borrowing, so they said -- because your debt price is high, the sustainable level of debt is 45%. I'm going back to the discussion now, what I said once. To simplify the matter, the participation of debt in the social product, which is a key measure, will begin to fall when we have two key elements of this formula that reduce debt. One element of that formula is called the primary balance, which is positive this year and will be positive this year if the deficit is 80 billion and interest is 140, will be 60 billion dinars positive primary balance. It's already reducing your debt, because you spend less, you spend part of the interest, it's the first element. The second element, if your interest has passed less than the growth of the social product, is very simple, for the next year we are designing 3% of the growth of the social product. The social product is based on our projections for the next year 4,400 billion dinars without three billion, 4.397 times 3% you'll get about 132 billion. It's a social product increase. If we lower the interest cost below 132 billion, that element is positive. So that's when both elements will begin to fall into debt in the social product. I'm worried about the same thing as you, but let's use the math. That's why we're building a fiscal strategy that has an entire segment that refers to debt projections and a path that leads us to Mastricht level and below by about 2022. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5005	Thank you. The word has been issued by MP Zoran Bojanic, so let the MP of the people be prepared, Serbiaslav Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5006	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, after the exhaustive speeches of counterpart Aleksandra Djurović and colleagues Goran Kovacevic, I will really focus on only one item of the agenda. By noting, listening to the discussion during this day, the impression is that before this government we had a wonderful economic situation, that we lived in prosperity, that everything was right and that we didn't need any credit. No, we've just lived in a devastated state, in a ruined economy, without industry, without anything, with large debts and all these loans are just an attempt to start our own industry, to run some other segments of our lives, and finally, prison units and capacities to bring real purpose. What I will talk about today, first of all, is the loan between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia, as regards the city of the Kings. I am particularly pleased that after three years, after the initiative of my fellow Members Ivan Jovanovic and myself, and my little ones, we are coming to the conclusion of a very good project. In 2013, the amendment to the budget of the Republic of Serbia was respected, and thanks to the understanding of then-Minister Lazar Krstic and the man who spent a lot of time in the Kingdom after the earthquake, about three to four months, then the Vice-President, that is, the first Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, we, although on the Committee on Finance and Budget, rejected the amendment, installed the amendment in the draft of the Budget Act and in 2014 in January, the Development Bank of the Council of Europe signed the Protocol and we set out to implement a big and good project for the city of Kraljevo. It is strange to say that this project worth 14.2m euros is the biggest thing since the 1970s what appears to be and what is being done in the city of Kralje. I would be much more pleased if it were some industrial capacity, but since I spent childhood and youth in that part of the city, Dosite Street, and it was urban regeneration of Dosite Street, I can tell you that it would be a beautiful part of the city of Kralje, where at this moment people living in buildings that were built in the 1930s, and these were primarily single apartments for workers of the then factory plane, and then there were workers of the car factory and workers of the Magnochroma in the Kingdom. If I tell you that most of these apartments don't have their own bathroom, that they don't have their own bathrooms, that they're 12 square-square apartments where families live and that on one floor you have one toilet and one shower, you can imagine what it means for these people, and there are more than a thousand of them, i.e. 366 families who will rightly solve their existential problems. It seems to someone that it's a long period, that since 2014, so here's to the end of 2016, for ratification of the agreement. I can tell you that it was a big project and it should be commended to the city of Kraljevo and the Unit for the projects of the city of Kralje, which managed to, of some 365, 366 families, I mentioned, in 2012, 112 were only in the cataster of drawn and introduced sheets. In this time, we managed to do it for 325 housing units, which is one big success. Also, it's part of a city where all high schools and a large number of elementary schools are in. The first stage worth 14.2m euros... And if this turns out to be right, and it will certainly show, given that such projects are already us, but the Bank of the Council of Europe has already worked in Turkey and Spain and proved to be a pretty good solution and in some perspective it is to be the first stage of the four-stage Dossyt Street arrangement. Since there are us Royals who need to talk more about this, I will end up here in voting day, either way, voting for all six legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5007	The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5008	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want to talk today about the Western Balkans Fund. All well-intentioned people in our country know what kind of problems we've had in this region, in the Western Balkans in the past 20, 30 or maybe 50, 60 years ago. We all know how far back the countries of the region are, how many people are left out of work because of the problems behind us, without factories, how many people have died in different conflicts. I think these are ideas and initiatives, such as the establishment of the Western Balkans Fund, just the steps we need. These are steps that support all people in our country and other surrounding countries who are ready to see in the future, who are ready to participate in a project of progress in the Balkans, the Balkans as a centre for economic development in Europe, as an engine, as an economic driver for the development of this part of Europe and the world. I heard today from one of the opposition's speakers that he estimated that the EU is failing, that it is a project that no longer has any significance and I simply have to look back. While some of us were waiting for the world to go to waste, for Europe to disappear, we were the only ones who sold it. Now that we want to lead Serbia into the future, now that we want to open factories and factory openings, now that the roads are finally running, now that there are more employees in Serbia and less and less unemployed, now that such economic results are being achieved that we have the opportunity to raise both public sector wages and pensions on a healthy basis, when we have the opportunity to help all layers of our population, some would like to stop it, so we would like to get us back. Perhaps they would like to take Serbia back to the accident, to lead Serbia into a process I believe would never get away with. That's why the Western Balkans fund is something that we all have to support together, and at least, about Serbia's common future, about economic progress, about the economy, about the interest of every citizen, regardless of which party this, previous or some earlier elections voted for, this fund is a symbol of the development and progress of our region, and I am convinced that if there is any reason, if there is little good will to establish that fund, we must support all of us in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5009	Thank you. The word is Sonja Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5010	I welcome all those present, and I would only like a little attention to read something. "Deliver the projects, we will give money to edit the facades, let's not give money and disappear in a jar. Give us the projects, we'll follow and we need to be strict so it doesn't get into trouble." This is what Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, prime minister of Serbia, said at the Nis government meeting in talks with the heads of the Niš municipality. I could agree with this, however, we have here two agreements ahead of us, a bill to confirm the LD1830 framework agreement concerning the construction of residential facilities for 366 families whose apartments were damaged in the Kingdom during the earthquake and the 2012 LD1768 agreement, the construction and equipment of a new prison unit of 400 convicted persons in Kragujevac. About that, I'm asking the following questions. Do we have projects that define the amount of investment that is partly financed from the loan? If there are projects, why aren't they exposed to the public, as well as the dynamic plan of realising them? What is the area of the plot on which the buildings will be performed, and above all, the property of which is owned? Could it be military property, private property? These are all very important questions. What about the infrastructure? For both of these projects, there is a table view of costs. If we carry out a comparative cost analysis expressed on a percentage basis, we will come up with a series of illogicalities, and above all in land costs, where the total investment for land takes 7%, 8% for the project in Kragujevac and 17.96% for the project in Kragujevac. Hypothetically, it can be a very correct cost, but we really don't know that without projects. If we don't have projects, we don't have the mechanisms to follow you. We don't have the mechanisms to be strict. What can guarantee us that money will not end up in a jar and not just for the part that is withdrawn from the loan, but for the entire investment? Without projects, I, as a serious and responsible citizen of Serbia, as a serious and responsible MP, can safely say that these draft laws are insufficiently defined and thus totally unacceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5011	Thank you. Now the word has Dusan Pavlovic. Thank you. The word is Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Sign up, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5012	Thank you. The President-in-Office, respected ministers with co-workers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is today ahead of us, among other things, and the proposal for a law to confirm the loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which concerns the programme of modernisation and optimization of public administration. Public administration reform is one of the most important reform areas. In the process of public administration reform, there is a legal framework for the functioning of the state administration system and local self-government. Many regulations have been adopted that determine the direction of further changes. In Serbia, there is a Public Administration Reform Strategy that is implemented in accordance with the Action Plan for its implementation, which was adopted for the period 2015 to 2017. Priorities are set, better organisation and functioning of the state administration system, better human resources management, better public procurement management, higher level of legal certainty, and especially better quality of services provided by state authorities. For the implementation of priorities will be the competent Ministry of State Administration and local self-government with the help of the Ministry of Finance, as well as the relevant other competent state authorities. Public administration reform aims to ensure respect for the principles of good administration, such as accountability, transparency, organisational capacity, reliability, citizen participation and financial sustainability. The financial support in the form of loans for this kind of implementation of the strategy is given by the World Bank to finance a 69m-euro programme of modernisation and optimization of public administration. The 2016 Budget Law provides for the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia to the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, to finance such a project. The loan payment deadline is 17 years, and Serbia will return the loan to 24 consecutive half-years' wars, starting on 15 April 2021. In particular, the programme put an emphasis on two areas that are also in the action plan, which is to establish a harmonised public service system based on merits and improve human resources management and improve public finance management and public procurement. What I might point out as good is that through this program the notion of state administration is given a broader meaning. According to the Law on State Administration, the concept of state administration covers ministries, administration bodies as part of ministries and special organisation, while through this programme the concept of state administration is gaining wider importance, there is now a figure of the concept of public administration, which also includes public services, public agencies and local self-government units. I think this is a good way to get them directly involved in processes that are very important. The Serbian government shows commitment to implementing difficult but very important reforms to improve the efficiency of public administration. This will contribute to better use of limited budget resources to create a space for investment in important infrastructure. Modernisation of public administration is necessary because the state will thus become the real service of citizens. In addition to changing the structure of employment and adapting to new needs, the way public services are provided will change, and public spending will also be brought into sustainable frameworks. As the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia decides on the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia and confirms international agreements, when the law provides for their confirmation, and especially when these contracts relate to the taking over of financial commitments for the Republic of Serbia, this proposal today lies before us, and I will support the government's readiness to continue reforms in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5013	Thank you. The word has a national MP, Maja Vidinović. You're giving up. The word of the Messenger of the people is Krsto Janjušević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5014	The esteemed chairman, respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, an economic recovery, in which this government has taken a strong turn since 2012, I believe that we can divide into two economic fronts - a policy of stabilisation and economic growth, and on each of these two economic fronts we have achieved significant results, therefore, from preventing bankruptcy, from one side to a significant percentage of growth recorded this year. If it had continued with that trend found in 2012 and from those actors that led to this trend and in 2012, to this day, we would probably, more precisely here, be discussing these days whether all conditions for pensioners to get their 10th pension in a year, and enlighten some ninth salary in a year. Today and these days, we are discussing that pensions and salaries are increased by the enlighteners. Dear Minister, I believe there are still many challenges ahead of us. Heavy reforms that, when you carry out, give a lot of reasons for criticism. You simply can't carry out heavy reforms without some things being treated the way they do, to make some false or some affair or something that would slow down the same, because there are those who would rather this government, in fact, make a very bad result of it, so that they can make their political points, they don't care about the people. What I want to say, and in terms of growth policy, that percentage of 2.8% represents a billion new value, goods and services, compared to the previous year, and when public debt, which is always measured towards GDP, sees whether it is increased, we can look at it through the situation that we can borrow below that billion new value without increasing public debt. We won't be in debt immediately, we'll be in debt for 200 million when we need it, and we'll invest in new growth. Also, the special theme is the low interest rate at which we have borrowed and compared to, say, the interest rate from 7.55% to one billion from 2011. I want to mention something about this grace period and the way Serbia will work during this grace period. Let's do one parallel. Too much criticism today and in previous days was about this loan, as if this was a loan to fill someone's private pockets, and not to make economic growth, so I'm going to make one parallel between a debt, so the debt that Serbia now has and in that grace period Serbia will achieve new economic growth and Serbia will welcome the first payments of the loan ready. However, one of the critics who here points to the permanent injuries of the Rules of Procedure and to permanent irregularities, not taking care of the fact that the most he makes them himself, we have a situation that is in charge of one million. Let's just follow up on how he works during his grace period, it's interesting where he gets such a grace period. So his grace period is filled with two stages. The first unsuccessful phase was, unfortunately, started on one misinformation, which is that it is possible for you to come to Serbia, become a minister, fall asleep in your aunt's couch and wake up very quickly with some millions. He was wrong, the wrong information, he realized it very quickly. He's very fast-tracked from that place. These days he has a problem with explaining whose fault he was, so he says – I wasn't Dacic's fault, I was Vukic's mistake, and we say – it was still whose fault you were, you were a mistake. After that, go in, I'm just trying to make one parallel between the two loans and how we go in one grace period, how we go in another grace period. I'm trying to stick to the subject with a plastic example. The second part of the grace period realized, of course, that nothing without production and launched one hatemaking factory for Alexander Vukic and the fabrication of lies and lies towards Alexander Vukic. In that factory, there are some employees in that plant. His lies are packed in a nice packaging, the repromatter is often supplied by his coalition partners in the opposition, and what is most important, and this is the experience that was brought to us from the West and which he personally brought, he does not have to pay a tax on hate for Alexander Vukic, because that he has to pay a tax on hate for Alexander Vukic, that tax would have exceeded one million years ago. (Saša Radulović, from town: Shame on you, any colleague. President, everything's fine. So here I tried to make a parallel between two duties and two ways of repaying that debt, and I wanted to point to the financial morality of the man who criticises this loan. So much for that, and now it will move to a second point, more specifically the Western Balkans Fund. Many things have been said and repeatedly explained that Serbia has not recognised Kosovo by any act by joining this fund. In fact, we haven't preserved sovereignty in the southern Serbian province, but I want to look at one detail and just analyze who confessed. The Western Balkans Fund will finance project documentation for the Nis-Merdare road route – Pristina – Brac. We had a situation, more specifically a press conference, where Mr. Lapcevic said he found it on some site, Googled it, and found it on some site that this time was outlined as part of a map of the great Albania, where the great Albania and the city of Nis is. Then he asks – what country is going to meet separatist demands for expanding its territory and building a "and highway"? I'm putting an accent on this "in." So, dear Nišlja, our fellow citizens from the south, you are under Mr. Lapčević's assessment under this "in", not as part of Serbia, but as part of a map which he, by googling, found on the Internet. I just want to know how he doesn't find a map of Serbia somewhere, so to see it's Serbia, I don't understand it. I'd like to ask him does that mean that if he were wondering about something in this country, and tomorrow my city or the city of one of my colleagues finds it in someone else's Separatist map, does that mean we'd be forgotten, that "in" wouldn't go out again, some cartoons and some map he found on the Internet? Here I will say, more specifically, I will convey the words of Mr Bogdanovic, who owns the freezer in Prokuplje, and about that highway, and he says – every new market is welcome, we are already negotiating with some firms from Albania, I think that building that road will speed up the transport of goods to them, especially when we are making fruit, because it is rapidly breaking down. Because of Mr. Bogdanovic, we make this highway for all the honorable Bogdanovics and for all our families, to give them reason to stay down. The easiest way to move them will be when they leave the southern Serbian province and south Serbia, the easiest they will be able to get out of there. We have to give them a reason to stay. So, I also have a message for Mr. Lapčević for the end, so he can continue to Google on the internet, and Serbia's citizens will, on our luck with that policy, and be totally Googled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5015	The word is made by the People's Messenger Tatjan Macura.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5016	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point again to the breach of Rules of Procedure, Article 106, paragraph 1. The previous speaker spent the first seven minutes and ten seconds of his presentation on his practical impression with the character and part of the president of our parliamentary group. After that, he dedicated the rest of his presentation to the work of other MPs. At no point did he look back on the agenda point. I hope, the chairman, that you had the opportunity, that you were focused enough, to hear what the MP was talking about and that during his exposure, you could draw attention to him to stick to the topic that's on the agenda. (Milan Lapčević, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5017	What can I tell you, MPs, you didn't understand the discussion at all. The word didn't say anything about the president of your group. At one point I thought he was talking more about some ministers. I know what sentence he said, which was quoted by the MP. You don't know maybe, but I do. Whether he spoke of the matter or not, he spoke of the matter, but you did not understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5018	Can you explain it to me?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5019	No, no, I don't have to explain the speeches.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5020	I didn't understand that he was talking about a subject that's on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5021	You're in terrible error. The President of Parliament doesn't explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5022	We'll listen and we'll take a look.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5023	Sure, so I know, you're just listening, checking, recording, counting seconds, minutes, and it's endlessly fun and one part of our citizens, and the other -- they're expecting something more concrete. But, well, it's your right to play MPs all day at every session. I know I didn't break the Rules of Procedure and that I'm not a censor here and for correcting words and sentences. He spoke well and cited examples and reasons why loans must be taken. If you didn't understand that, I'm sorry, and if you recognize the president of your group in every sentence, then that's not the problem of the chairman and the speaker. I can't really understand that you're so sensitive. I was just watching if MP Radulovic was going to hit and it scared me the most, more than words, and what he said to him. You want me to tell you about the microphone? You don't care about that. It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Just keep going that way, it's a great trip for real. Keep going, but you won't piss off the messengers, nor will you provoke them. The policy of trying to create incidents won't go away, it just won't go away. Don't worry, we're all old enough, calm enough, with great experience, so it won't really go away. What to do, everyone has a way of seeing how one parliament of a serious state should function and look. The word has the People's Messenger Jasmina Nikolic. Here you go. I'm sorry, Mr. Lapchevic, the replica. Sign up, please. You weren't in the O.R., so maybe your card's wrong. Let's get one more of you in, see if the system works or if it's just a card problem. Everyone who put in the cards now works. You haven't been in the O.R. in a long time, that's the problem. Fix it and we'll get into the system. I'll give you a little word later. The word is Jasmine Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5024	Thank you. The Assembly, by law, confirms international agreements if they are political and include financial commitments for Serbia, whose conclusion and enforcement are regulated by law. There is no doubt that the law confirming the Agreement establishing the Fund for the Western Balkans – the law on the confirmation of an international contract. The law on the conclusion and execution of international contracts states, Article 2(1). – an international contract is a contract concluded by the Republic of Serbia in writing with one or more states or with one or more international organisations. So, by our law, I repeat, by our law, Kosovo with a star is then either a state or an international organisation. It's not a problem in regional representation, it's not a problem in the interpretation of the note, I'm not saying that anyone recognizes Kosovo this way. I'm saying that this adoption law, the ratification of this agreement, is not within the law. So, I suggest that he withdraws and first changes the law that regulates the adoption of international contracts, so that we can go further in the process at all. The political significance of the Fund is enormous, there is no doubt. The main objective is not civil sector co-operation. The fundamental goal is defined in the Statute, where it writes – the integration of contracting parties into the European Union, that is one goal, the joint representation of contracting parties in third countries, that is another objective, these are political objectives. Now we've just heard that the Fund will finance project documentation for building the Nis-Medare-Pristina highway. Is that civil society co-operation? The second question – how much will it cost, since the Fund will have in the first year with a symbolic figure of 180,000 euros? He needs to cover his labour costs. If you compare this to the model model that was created with the Visegrad Group, which only had an 8m-euro fund available in 2014. So, for a reason, I can question the efficiency of this fund, given the budget. Then, Serbia sees itself as the hub of regional co-operation, and has no regional headquarters, and moreover, this fund will have its head office in Tirana. This is the first fund, i.e. The first international organisation in which Serbia participates with Kosovo with a star. The next one is coming, and that's the Youth Office, soon, also based in Tirana. My question is, why do both of these organizations have headquarters in Tirana? Finally, the adoption of this law is proposed by an emergency procedure. The agreement was signed on 13 November 2015. It remains unclear why the promoter waited 11 months for the law to propose to the Assembly, and we know that the government submitted a proposal on October 13th, we are already several days behind this, the agreement was signed 11 months ago in 2015. I have another question, since the Visegrad Group is funding some countries, is the Fund going to have a budget by funding it, i.e. co-financed practically through projects and some other countries in the Visegrad Group, that was Germany, Canada, the Netherlands and still South Korea, Switzerland and the United States? Also, we heard from the foreign minister that the agreement has ratified Albania and Montenegro so far. My question is, has anyone else ratified the Agreement in the meantime? If so, who is it? As well – what would really happen if Serbia did not ratify this agreement now, but withdrew it and brought it into line, i.e. The law has changed so that the Republic of Serbia can sign an Agreement establishing a Fund for the Western Balkans and Kosovo with a star, so that there would be no state or international organisation, but something that has special status? I'll do it again for the end, so, signing, that's it. ratification, this law establishing the Western Balkans Fund does not comply with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5025	Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5026	It is obvious that some MPs here act completely autistic, as if we do not live in the same country, as if we know nothing about the current political situation, the history and the history of our conflicts in the Balkans. Of course Nis is supposed to be in big Albania's cards, if you don't know, you Google it. Of course, there are separatist aspirations that exceed the current administrative borders of Kosovo and Metohija and extend further towards Leskovec both towards Vranj and Nis. And, of course, I haven't heard that anywhere in the world, no country that currently has occupied territory is building roads to that occupied territory and is not going to meet the separatist demands of some group that is currently taking over its territory. For example, I've never heard Georgia do that in South Ossetia or anything like that. If we want to develop east or south Serbia, then I guess it's logical to make a highway or road of regional character with more tape to Kursumlia, for example. Then I guess it's normal for us to build a state-owned factory in Kursumlia to hire people there, or we offer a government job, to help these people who live in that territory, because if people live in the territory, there'll be territories, there'll be someone to protect it. But suddenly, overnight after the Berlin Conference, it became priority no. 1 in Serbia. Why is it not priority no. One way to connect, for example. Serbia with Republika Srpska? Isn't that logical? Is it our only economic alternative to have to make a highway to Albania...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5027	Thank you, MP. Are you answering? I don't see you very well. Sign up for me. Janjušević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5028	The Honorable Chairman, I expected the previous speaker to say that he didn't say so, that it wasn't quite true, that he meant it differently, and he confirmed it again. I'm not interested in googling which-what maps, I'm interested in Google Serbia's cards, which is what it is, and I'm going to Google only those maps. I make a policy based on what kind of map I've found, so I can't believe someone here says something like that. So tomorrow, and maybe there is already, maybe most of the cities here are from respected colleagues on someone's map. Imagine now that this gentleman is the first man of this country, sits down nicely and collects everything, so he wouldn't have to invest in several cities, he would tell us all – don't, you're out there somewhere. But fortunately for the esteemed president, no one like the people. Well, that's how after the last election to us who do so, unlike them, didn't need that humanitarian action – give your vote, for our censorship rescue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5029	You responded to his. So what, to give you a replica because he said, I will not Google. (Milan Lapcevic, from the scene: Did I mention the previous speaker? Did I mention it in some context? Be a little parliamentary. Come on, I'll think about it. Yes, thank you for throwing away those of you who have no right to speak at this point, so we also have invisible MPs. Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5030	Thank you very much. Let me briefly, over a few discussions already today, briefly read the following information. This is not the only document in which understanding of the legal status of the units contained in the agreements is important. In Belgrade, it is the headquarters of a transport Observatory for Southeast Europe, which will become a community. The headquarters of the office and action team for Roma in co-operation with the Regional Co-operation Council and will be the headquarters of the reform and education initiative in Southeast Europe. This law has already been in the process, but it repeats itself because of the parliamentary elections, all the laws that were in the procedure were automatically withdrawn from the procedure. An emergency procedure is now required because the Visegrad Four has funds, plans for 2016 and it is crucial to ratify this agreement and to sign it before these deadlines expire. As far as legal status is concerned, it is true that the Law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts does not regulate this area, but it is also true that the way to confirm this proposal is the only time in the National Assembly. The special issue of Kosovo's status, Kosovo with a star, as a territory under Serbia's international administration, has executive powers in the management of foreign affairs that cannot be ignored, which are defined by Resolution 1244 and the UNMIK constitutional framework. Serbia states in its interpretative statement that the conclusion of this agreement between Serbia and Kosovo with a star, does not create a relationship regulated by the 1969 Vienna Convention on Contract Law, nor can it go beyond the framework defined by Kosovo's international law Resolution 1244 and the UNMIK constitutional framework. The colleagues have already discussed the pretext quite in detail legally, therefore, no letter in any letter is being broken but the status accepted. We've already said, logically, that the alternative not to adopt this is harmful, and it doesn't only help in this contract proposal, it doesn't help otherwise. Our presence in this document, in this Treaty, helps Serbia to be an active participant of this process and de facto, controls that this is all happening in the frameworks defined by Resolution 1244 and all other documents adopted in this Assembly and elsewhere in Serbia. I don't think there's any need to repeat this anymore, since Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Dacic is not here to answer you with a wide history of all these events. I don't think it's correct that we keep returning it to the alleged violation of the law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts, since this is not contradictory. It is true that it regulates this, but this is not contradictory for the Assembly to reach a decision, or ratify this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5031	Milan Lapčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5032	I can't really believe what I'm hearing from the other side, but, well, it's probably this new philosophy to be on the course a little bit, get a degree overnight, and immediately interpret how perfect everything is, how wonderful and great it's like we're living out of time and out of space. Dear gentlemen, if you didn't know, in 1999 there was a war in Serbia, we were bombed by those same friends who are your patrons today. (Alexander Martinovic, from the place: Well, they brought you to power in 2000, you were the same. Well, they brought you into power. Dear gentlemen, under the same pressures you are now making a highway and declaring it a priority no. 1. Yes, dear gentlemen, as if we're all deaf and blind in the fact that our territory is becoming more and more self-sufficient every day and every procedure that it does, and before that, and this government is becoming more and more self-sufficient and under control, so you've come up with a brilliant idea that we should make a highway and build a Fund for the Western Balkans, because so quickly we'll all go to Europe. Yes, wonderfully, it is only a question of whether our people in Kosovo and Metohija will be the people of the second order, and whether they will have their institutions or whether they will recognise the state of Kosovo, which you will order, and your representatives, to ask the Constitutional Court of Kosovo to interpret the Trepca Agreement, and here you have annulled it, because it is not a legally valid document. There you go. So much for your politics. (Gorica Gajic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5033	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5034	President-in-Office, I am advocating the Rules of Procedure, Article 106(3). - during the speech of the MP or other participants in the search, it is not allowed to throw, or interfere with the speaker in any other way, as well as any other procedure that threatens freedom of speech. Just as Mr. Lapcevic exhibited, a colleague across the way from the Serbian People's Party, he threw and distracted the Serbian Progressive Party in his presentation, and you did not warn him.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5035	Okay. Yes, I understand. I heard what he threw. He stopped right away. He said, "They brought you into power, and there he stopped, after a sentence of the bombing. Okay, that's it, so it's similar. Injury of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5036	Dear President, Article 107 has been injured, where the speaker at the National Assembly sessions is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. I understand, because everything said has been hurt by the Rules of Procedure. I say once again, when you say and when you claim to invest in your country, wherever and according to anyone to go, it goes to meet separatist demands, you hurt every point of this Rules of Procedure, every letter of this Rules of Procedure, you hurt this building here where you sit, you hurt everything that's in Serbia. You don't need a course, it doesn't take more than three grades of elementary school to know that when you invest somewhere in your country, you invest to give your people a reason to stay there. And when someone gives that people a reason to run, that people will run away with a macadam and anyway, and that highway will be the least trouble to get out of there. That highway is the reason to stay there. As for this bombing and all that, yes, Mr. previous speaker is in one piece and consistent with his political party, rarely consistent, but here in this he is consistent, in ignorance. I just don't know if he's been informed that those who bombed us, who he says bombed us in 1999, brought them to power in 2000.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5037	It's been a while, MP. I hope you don't think I said those words, that I hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5038	No, no.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5039	Okay. You only respected the Rules of Procedure, so you spoke to me, fine. Here you are, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, Zvonimir Stević. No more replicas, over.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5040	The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a single statement has been made in the previous speaker...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5041	Just tell me which member, please?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5042	Article 107, violation of dignity.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5043	He was now a member of 107.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5044	Article 106.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5045	We can't bid. I know your intentions. Your intention is honorable and honest, and I know that MPs are hurt by the speech of the previous MP and that it is a very sensitive and difficult subject and it is ugly to blame someone for what happened. Don't hurt the Rules of Procedure, please. It's like I'm saying something, I'm doing something.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5046	Then may I use the time of the mandated representative of the parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5047	You can't, no. Make a deal in the group. Really, you can't do that, it's out of line. I totally understand. I apologize to you, because I let the MPs say, they have no measures and they really...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5048	Can I have a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5049	But he didn't mention you, nobody mentioned the SPS, nobody mentioned anyone in the matter. I'll talk to you later. I'll talk to you later. I have nothing to take away from your group. You've informed me you don't have a club. So please just. A minute's rest, a break, because otherwise I can't establish order. It's all in the Rules of Procedure. I can't establish order. We're starting to abuse the Rules of Procedure, so everyone can say something to someone. (Milan Lapčević, from the city: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. He can't, he just can't. I'm using my powers to make order at the session and get back to it. I know you have a lot to say to each other, but this isn't a session to do. I've allowed about half an hour, and it's really a very difficult topic, and it's ugly to send a picture of who's to blame, who's to blame, etc. You started it, don't. Let Milimir Vujadinovic be prepared in the break, then Vladimir Orlic, Dragana Kostic, Maja Macužic, Aleksandar Markovic. It's the rest of the speakers and so on, all the way to Dvora. There's a lot of speakers, so we'll see. It's not worth it, Lapčević, break and line up just to break up. It's not worth anything to you, really. (Milan Lapčević, from the city: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Come on, say it, but I'll stop you right now, I already know. I don't even like it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5050	Article 103, which regulates the right to breach of the Rules of Procedure and regulates the attitude of the 8th substance concerning the abuse of the infringement of the Rules of Procedure. You know very well that the previous speaker has misused the violation of the Rules of Procedure. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5051	I broke up, and I'm gonna break up with you. (Milan Lapčević, from the place: You did not interrupt. I did. Over. I interrupted an MP from the SPS, same as you. The word is Milimir Vujadinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5052	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister of Associates, it is my honor to address you. I am Milimir Vujadinovic, coming from probably the most beautiful city in Serbia, Subotica, where probably the best people in the world live. In the beginning, I will say that as a MP, I will certainly support a set of laws that are before us today. Some of them were certainly mentioned by our colleagues in the King, but I will touch three. I don't think there should be anything too skillful and economically educated to conclude that it's the agreement itself, that is. The loan agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Abu Dhabi Development Fund is highly favourable and beneficial for Serbia. Of course, the fact that you don't have to withdraw the entire loan in full, that you can withdraw in tranches, and that you only pay interest on the withdrawn part of the loan. Of course, not long ago, buying this artificial social peace, increasing salaries and pensions, as well as social benefits in Serbia without absolutely any economic justification, and all in order to maintain, endless maintenance in power, the parties of the former regime were in debt to loans for which no one thought at all, nor cared that they would be returned in any way. Serbia is in charge, we are in charge, citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Our children are in charge, our grandchildren are in charge. Of course, such loans are normally owed by government interest rates ranging from 6.5% to 8%. As an excellent example, I would like to quote a loan by the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic, so imagine coincidences, and also confirmations of what I was saying earlier, took in September 2011 at the very beginning of the election campaign. The amount is exactly what we are talking about here today when it comes to the Fund and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, a billion dollars. It's probably one of the most expensive loans in Serbia's modern history, the interest rate was 7.25% and I think it's a very clear comparison with what we're talking about today. If you look at the loan the Government of the Republic of Serbia plans to take from the Abu Dhabi Development Fund with an interest rate of 2.25%, which will absolutely serve to refinance loans and reduce debt costs and compare it to the loan taken by the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic, it is clear that we are saving $50m to the same amount. How important these savings are, I think it's too much to talk about. We know the best people from the northern Serbian province. Since recently, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has invested 1.9 billion dinars already after many, many years in the restoration of schools and kindergartens in the northern province, and certainly the citizens of Subotica, because the government has already transferred two million euros to continue work on the Ipilon arm, i.e. The road tour around Saturday. For decades there have been promises that Ipsylon’s arm will be completed, many have tied their political destiny to the completion of the project, but it is about as complete as the project. It is also important to build a road to the southern Serbian province to improve the conditions of our people's lives in the southern Serbian province, but also to build bridges between Republika Srpska and Serbia. The government is funding, imagine, such a beautiful name, the bridge between Bratunc and Ljubovija, "Bratoljub", which is certainly proof that we also care for citizens in Republika Srpska. Prime Minister Vukic and the government of the Republic of Serbia also funded a municipality in Republika Srpska. Srebrenica, as one of the most beautiful municipalities in Republika Srpska, was certainly assisted by the government of the Republic of Serbia. I will try a few more arguments when it comes to the bill confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the National Bank for Reconstruction and Development, as regards the programme of modernisation and optimisation of public administration. As early as 2014, the government adopted a programme, a very brave programme concerning fiscal consolidation, and it was already confirmed in 2015 at the conclusion of an agreement with the International Monetary Fund. One of the most important tasks and challenges was to reduce the number of public sector employees and improve their structure. It's clear there was an angel who threatened to swallow our society, and I think after a decade someone dared and had the courage to deal with it. The programme of modernisation and optimization of public administration foresees, i.e. It probably includes two of the most important objectives of this action plan for implementing the Optimisation Strategy, which is to establish a system based on merits, for which we all must be fighting here, but also a clear management of public procurement and public finances. I think it would be completely hypocritical and illogical not to support those who have decided after decades on such a difficult step. Finally, as far as the Western Balkans Fund is concerned, more for the sake of Serbian citizens, I must say, although I am sure that it will try to disprove those who are false guardians and conceited guardians of the deed to Serbia and patriotism, because I believe it belongs to them alone, it is in fact one step of the government of the Republic of Serbia towards denying Kosovo and Metohija independence. Kosovo is clearly asymmetrically presented in the Agreement and, of course, is not presented as a state under the Agreement. It should not be mistaken that the Fund is likely to be established without the participation of the Republic of Serbia, but then with some countries in the region and clearly presented as a state, without stars, without footnote, and on the economic benefit of our citizens, I think it is unnecessary to talk. They know the citizens of Kosovo and Metohija, they also showed in the elections who is who works for their survival, who is who works for their improvement, which is, in fact, the most important thing today, that these are not false guardians of the deed to Serbia and patriotism, but people who do concrete things for them. So once again, I stress all the proposed laws that are before us today I will support, and I call on all the MPs to do the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5053	Thank you. The People's MP Vladimir Orlic has the word, and let the MP Dragana Kostic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5054	Thank you, Madam President. It will be this, ladies and gentlemen, I believe, short exposure. This debate has been going on for a long time, and I believe that things are very clear, and if something wasn't clear, it's been pretty out there. I'll use maybe just a few minutes for a few important messages. First of all, without any doubt, I support the agreements on the agenda. I support it because I believe that and how it makes sense to provide the means to address the housing issue for people who are at risk in the King, because it certainly makes sense to provide the means to arrange the accommodation capacity properly and to support the modernisation of public administration. It certainly makes sense to provide funds to help small and medium-sized enterprises in this country, as well as how it makes sense to provide a financing process for public debt liabilities, and what it does to that loan from the Abu Dhabi Fund. All of this certainly makes so much more sense because it is provided under conditions that cannot be found on the commercial market, so on conditions much more favourable than that. It's an absolutely clear thing. I would take the opportunity to thank you, Mr. Minister, for the exhaustive reasons, not only when it comes to the contents of new laws, but whenever there was a need to avoid any confusion in this room, every time you're here, you provide very good explanations, very clear, it's a pity that some in this room, unfortunately, have no desire to hear them out. If they wanted to listen to them all the way, I'm sure they could learn a lot from them. I also support the Fund's agreement within the Western Balkans. We've already talked in this room about what it's important to support any program that rightly regulates opportunities in the region. This is more than clear and very precise, not once, but several times, we on this side of the hall have read up to the yut of the content of Article 3 of this Agreement, which very explicitly states how the interests of the Republic of Serbia are protected in terms of Kosovo and Metohija. We all know that this is a topic that whenever it appears in any way in this room, it will be the subject of certain abuses, of trying to make a big discussion out of it, of fierce, huge words that someone will want to use for political profit. Ladies and gentlemen, it would be good to understand one day that it's not good and it's not done. Such conduct can only harm this society. Since we are speaking today in accordance with the provisions of our Rules of Procedure, in the framework of a single search, and that includes the content of some amendments, and we believe or did not have some amendments this time. I'm going to take a brief look at that and some of the things that have been heard in this room. I'll make sure, Mr. Chairman, that it is without any theoretical basis for replica, we don't need it anymore. It would be good to learn a few lessons about these amendments, ladies and gentlemen. First, for example, that amendments are not submitted to the text of the International Treaty, in accordance with our Rules of Procedure. It was, believe it or not, such attempts. Another thing, not to suggest different things at the same time, each other completely opposite, because it won't, it won't give you any extra time to argue. The Rules of Procedure say it's done in a unique way. Lesson number two. Third, it would be good to submit the amendments in writing. They know the people who read them exactly what I mean, and that always applies in principle. The last thing and most important, it is degutantly, beneath each level and completely contrary to the interests of this people and this country, to use this topic for brutal accusations of the institutions that they want to give up sovereignty in any way. It can be done in various ways, ladies and gentlemen, through the amendment proposal and through its explanation. Why am I saying this? He knows everyone who's read those amendments. One man, in an explanation, did just that. He also accused the government of Serbia and of us who support it that we may have the intention to confess to something that does not exist. You all know very well what I mean. It's below every level, it's far from the interest of this country, so maybe as much as we from the next constellation. That's not what ladies and gentlemen do. I'm glad that many seem to have understood, while this debate took place not to do so. I have listened carefully to all the discussions and it seems to me that in the last discussion coming right from the direction of this political group, whose member of this thing allowed himself, I have heard an explicit sentence – no, I do not claim that anything is recognised. If that was a certain building, I respect that. That's a good point. But something like this, I ask you, never to think of anyone if they care about the interest of this people, about the interest of this country, and may it be the last one that might come to mind, a man who doesn't want to openly justify everything that's happened since 1999 in KIM territory here, about the attack on the statehood and sovereignty of this country. Let him be the last. There's about this country and this people, ladies and gentlemen, who to worry about. We're going to adopt these agreements and we're going to make a lot more good results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5055	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5056	In order not to get out of the domain of my profession, allow me just a brief quote. In 2006, a quote from several sources of daily readings reads: "The signing of the CEFTA Agreement for Serbia is of great importance, because Serbia is given a significant regional position in its size and the position of Serbia plays a role as leader and by signing the role itself will be even more prominent," Serbian Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica said. What's signed? There's no gentleman in the O.R. The CEFTA Agreement was signed by Albania, Moldova, BiH, Montenegro-Montenegro, Bulgaria, Romania, Croatia, Serbia, Macedonia and Kosovo, UNMIK says "he is the behalf of Kosovo", according to Resolution 1244. Who signed with Serbia? Mr. Parivodic, otherwise, a friend and acquaintance, whom Prime Minister Kostunica praised. To paraphrasise our thought to the people, he said and did – do as you say, speak as you do. What happened in the meantime that what they were saying and doing 10 years ago is no longer valid and now they're saying something perfectly different? Does that mean they're calling us to break the CEFTA Agreement and all other agreements? Does this mean that new wisdom is about not implementing a pragmatic policy that protects Serbia's legal and all other interests, Serbia's territorial integrity in the international environment in which we live, we have no other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5057	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragana Kostic. Here you go. On what basis, Mr. Lapcievich? (Milan Lapčević, from town: Replica. You have no right to a replica. Because the minister quoted the agreement. First of all, Mr. Lapčević, you know what, you know very well, you're trying to find these stories about looking for a replica to find someone who has nothing to do with this House. Don't spread your arms, because you know very well that you have no basis for replication. You can't change the truth, whatever you say. (Milan Lapčević, from the city: according to the Rules of Procedure. All right, Mr. Lapchev. Here's to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5058	Article 104. - if the MP in his presentation also refers to the minister, he is insultingly expressed about the MP or the parliamentary group, i.e. the wrong to interpret, the President shall have the right to reply, i.e. the deputy president of the parliamentary group. I'm sorry, I don't know what's more explicit to happen for someone to get a line, a name and a last name called me, called my MP group, and I don't have a right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5059	Mr. Lapčević, the only name mentioned, Vojislav Kostunica. Milan Lapčević, from the city: Well? So what are you, his lawyer here? (Milan Lapcevic, from the scene: Excuse me, you're talking about the time when the CEFTA agreement was signed and you're asking what's changed? An independent Kosovo has been recognised... Mr. Lapčević, in accordance with article 109, I give you a warning... The word is made by MP Dragana Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5060	The Honorable chairman, respected ministers with associates, national MPs of Serbian citizens, is on the agenda today six points concerning the withdrawal of funds by financial arrangements of the Republic of Serbia and certainly that we would not be able to discuss them today that this government has not allowed both economic and political stability of Serbia and the reduction of the degree of risk of investment in our country. Otherwise, there would be no realisation of those financial contracts and agreements. Today, I will refer only to the draft law confirming the loan agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Abu Dhabi Development Fund for budgetary support. The Abu Dhabi Development Fund has existed since 1971 with the aim of funding development projects in developing countries. He has so far placed his credit arrangements in over 60 countries around the world. So I don't see why individuals don't feel bad...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5061	Mr. Lapchevic, do you want to let the minister listen to the MPs, or are you going to throw it away? (Milan Lapčević, from the city: Give me your word. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5062	The 2016 Budget Law provides for direct debt to Serbia of $2 billion to the government of Emirata. Abu Dhabi Development Fund. By withdrawing only 50% of the projected loan funds, it points to the country's rationalisation and savings measures, as well as the 2.8% GDP growth and 4.7% employment rates. The credit is intended for budget support, i.e. to finance deficits in the budget, to refinance the commitments made and to reduce the cost of debt. The currency structure of public debt currently around 24 billion euros suggests that 1/3 of that debt is in dollars. This loan will be used to finance liabilities based on public debt denominated in US dollars. In this way, to finance its dollar liabilities under public debt, the Republic of Serbia receives funds that are significantly more favourable from the aspect of the interest rate than currently possible market conditions. In this way, we will have less expenditure on interest which will reduce the burden on the budget, and use budget funds for other expenditures, such as social contributions or capital expenditure. Also, I want to point out that the average borrowing interest over the past period was between 6 and 8.5%, and the interest of this loan is 2.25%. When it's recalculated to a billion, we're saving 40-50 million dollars. So that some people don't continue to complain and they don't understand it, and obviously it's unclear to them, they have the right to not be clear, because they've been executed both in life and in reality, as well as without a shred of responsibility, it's just a good loan. If you get cheap funds to fund expensive debts, that's more than favourable. Investment of these funds in raising production and employment, service of the reduced debt will be faster. In the voting day, I will support this bill, as well as everyone else, for the benefit of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5063	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary, Maja Mucužic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5064	Thank you. The respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and fellow citizens are now on the agenda of a set of financial laws the government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted to the Assembly to preserve Serbia's stability in the first place, one of the key goals of the government led by Aleksandar Vucic. Economic, international and political stability is a success for Serbia's prosperity. Conscious of all this, the government of the Republic of Serbia led by Alexander Vukic proposed a set of these financial laws to preserve not only regional stability and stability of the public finance system, but also support small and medium-sized enterprises, modernisation and optimization of public administration and build an entire settlement. Conscious of all this, the government of the Republic of Serbia, led by Alexander Vukic, has proposed a set of these financial laws, not only to preserve regional stability and stability of the public finance system, but also to support small and medium-sized enterprises, modernisation and optimization of public administration, but also to build an entire settlement. Today I will specifically refer to the Law confirming the Framework Loan Agreement between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia, which will serve to finance the urban regeneration project, namely the construction of an entire settlement. I will also try to answer a number of questions that have been asked here today, and the answers to these questions are also in the material that MPs have received, but obviously they have not studied it very well. After a devastating earthquake in 2010, which struck the city of Kraljevo, over 200 people were injured. We had two victims. Over 24 thousand buildings were damaged in some way, housing facilities. Over 50 facilities of public purpose, schools, hospitals, homes of health and the like. After that, a project was launched to rehabilitate an entire settlement, which is called urban regeneration. In the focus of this project, the settlement was built between 1947 and 1955, consisting of 16 damaged buildings, several family dwellings and five ground floor family houses. In total, it is 366 apartments that are classified in the fourth, fifth and sixth categories of damage after the earthquake. The value of the recovery of these apartments was over 50% of the value of newly built apartments. For this reason, it has decided to build a whole new settlement. Today you've heard from my colleagues that living conditions in these apartments are on the verge of humanity, that many objects are not connected to the basic infrastructure of the water and sewerage, none of these objects are connected to central heating. I'm going to give you a few more data, and I'd like everyone here today who's been asking questions to hear the answers to those questions that they had during the day, the data that tells you, in itself, how difficult the situation is and how bad the situation is with that settlement. In these 366 apartments live families whose average size is 2.8 members, but in many cases there are families with seven, eight, and ten members. The apartments are square between 11 and 120 square meters, which is 39 meters square or 14 meters per person. What the new settlement is going to give, it's a much larger square of about 45 squares per housing unit. The average household incomes in that village are below the republican average, about 34,000 dinars, yes, you heard right. There are as many as 50 social assistance users living in the village, and about 30% of these residents are Roma residents. Taking into account all these circumstances, in 2013, with the help and support of the Investment Framework for the Western Balkans, a feasibility study of the urban regeneration project was carried out and the implementation of the project began. There are answers to those questions whether there are plans to build and what the dynamics of these plans are. It is all foreseen by a strategy, i.e. a feasibility study of this project. Following this, the co-financing of the project was approved by the Administrative Council of the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe, on 24 January 2014. Years. In parallel with this, the town of Kraljevo solved the ad hoc situations it was facing, so it adopted all the acts, the planning documentation and what might have been the most difficult, and counterpart Zoran Bojanić talked about it, helped to edit ownership relations on buildings that were then a special challenge for the city of Kraljevo, because the buildings, as you heard, were built after World War II, were repeatedly in traffic, not registered in the cataster, so in 2012, only a hundred objects were registered. Today it's almost all objects. During 2015 and early 2016, an architectural competition was organised, a geotechnical and geophysical examinations and elaborates were completed, local conditions were issued, the project was carried out and a construction permit was issued on 25 May this year for the first facility in that location. After successfully held negotiations with the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe, 6. In April by Serbia, on April 21st, the bank signed a draft of this agreement, which is here today before you. This loan will be used for construction, you've heard of my colleagues, four new ossopranos, and at the same time, not only for construction, but also for destroying existing objects. All facilities will be built in accordance with the highest social, environmental and energy standards. The current users will become owners of new squares in principle of trading squares for squares and will not only get them, they will also get the city of Kraljevo, because they will use this space more efficiently. The city of Kraljevo has already provided land, documentation, projects, and a pardner’s arrangement with land, and 400,000 will provide something later and thus round the whole of this project. What I must mention is a grant of the Investment Framework for the Western Balkans, through which a feasibility study has been carried out, and I hope that a project surveillance grant will also be approved. Dear colleagues, out of all the above-mentioned doubt, the aim of this loan is to build a modern settlement in which the inhabitants of an old and fallen settlement, headed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia with Alexander Vukic and the local self-government of the city of Kraljev, will show equal care for all citizens of the city of Kraljev. In the interest of all the citizens covered by this project, I urge you to give your vote in the voting day not only for this law, but also for the other laws in this set. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5065	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dusica Stojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5066	I thank the chairman. Dear ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today I will talk about the item of the agenda relating to the proposal for a bill confirming the Fund for the Western Balkans, with the statute of the Fund. The adoption of this bill is, note, in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but also with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. As a reminder, in November 2015, at a meeting in Prague, the Visegrad Group and representatives of the Western Balkans discussed topics that are important for the continuation of the EU enlargement process, then regional co-operation, the challenges of the migrant crisis, as well as all other topics. Serbia was then represented by Minister in charge of European Integration issues, Mrs Jadranka Joksimovic. The Western Balkans Fund should represent exactly this additionally good framework for civil society co-operation, but also for all citizens who wonder why it is important for us to go to the EU, does the EU want us and what our options are, what our capacities are in this process? The issue raised at the very beginning, when reading this proposal for a law establishing a Fund for the Western Balkans, is also talking about what is the fundamental objective of setting up this fund. The aim of the establishment of the Western Balkans Fund is to improve the quality of life of the region's population, the Western Balkans region, as well as to encourage European integration through funding of civil society and individual projects in areas such as cultural co-operation, youth exchange, science, education, sustainable development. In addition to the Agreement establishing the Fund, the Government of the Republic of Serbia also attached the text of the Declaration on Kosovo's status neutrality. I'd like to point out next. It is important that just the members of the Visegrad Group who co-operated themselves before becoming full members of the EU, because they, meaning members of the Visegrad Group, recognized the need for enlargement issues to be put back into the focus of EU interest, too, so that this process is not forgotten, if we bear in mind all the challenges that the EU faces at the moment, from the migrant crisis, Bregzita, then the very doubts that exist within the EU, whether it should go into the enlargement process, whether it should continue or not. I just want to remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia of one fact. Reminders for the sake of the Visegrad Group members, consisting of the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland and Hungary, were formed on 1 February 1990, when these members were not full members of the EU. They had only just become this in the framework of the so-called so-called "May 1st 2004". Great enlargements, when ten countries became EU members. The only institution of the Visegrad Group is the International Multicity Fund, which was founded in 1999 and which is based in Bratislava. According to the Fund's decision, the Fund has a budget of threem euros annually. Serbia's Western Balkans Fund is significantly more modest and amounts to around 30,000 euros and has been provided in the 2016 budget in the work related to the foreign ministry's budget. As someone who comes from the township of Rakovica, so from Belgrade, I want to say why it is important that we adopt similar agreements and sign them in this House of the National Assembly. The question that is also important for us to ask ourselves is – what effect do these and similar agreements have on the lives of young people living in Serbia? I can truly admit that we inherited accumulated problems at all levels, we were young in Serbia or older, we faced almost insolvent problems that we could have had on every corner, but this government, Prime Minister Alexander Vukic's government, began these accumulated decades of problems to solve successfully. We've also changed the government's attitude towards the citizens. Just look at citizens' requests for reception and talks with Prime Minister Aleksandra Vukic. No one's ever received them before. No one has ever spoken adequately to Serbian citizens before. It just wasn't the practice of our predecessors. I would also like to say this - the application of this agreement concerns young people, associations, civil society representatives, their integration into EU processes and policies. Also, the results of a survey by the Council of Europe suggest that young people in Serbia face problems of unemployment, hopelessness, apathy and almost every absence of activistism. Even 69.5% of young people in Serbia live with their parents after 30 years. What's the solution? It is important that we change youth policies and affect the budgets of local self-government units to include projects dedicated to young people. Young people are eager for these positive examples, those in the local, city, or republic. We have to give them a chance to school, to travel, to exchange experiences, to meet with their colleagues from the region and the world daily. We also need to reform the education system, introduce dual education and close cooperation between all partners in that chain, representatives of the economy, schools, students and teachers. Only in this way can we join developed countries such as Switzerland, Germany, Norway, countries that have dealt well with the problem of young people in this environment. These and similar agreements focus on close co-operation. We must encourage co-operation with partners from local to international level, continue to invest and plan budgets for the development of youth policies, from day to day to day to work on more active inclusion of young people in the decision-making process. The adoption of the Bill on Confirmation of the Agreement establishing the Western Balkans Fund has caused various controversy in the media and in the general public. Now I wouldn't talk about these cheap political points, the need for cheap pulsism, the abuse of these subjects. I just want to say this: the adoption of this law on the validation of the Fund for the Western Balkans is important not only because of better regional policy, but also to strengthen economic and political ties above all. The whole process has an indirect impact on the security of the region, as well as on the continuation of the Western Balkans' reconciliation process. Finally, I call on all fellow MPs, whether they are positions or opposition, to support this agreement in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5067	Thank you. The word is by MP Jasmina Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5068	Thank you. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, respected citizens, so far we have been able to hear many different discussions on the proposals of these laws confirming the agreement, but carefully listening to the explanation of Mr Vujovic, and for the sake of the truth and the citizens who follow us, it is important to highlight the essence of the adoption of these laws on confirming the agreement. I gave myself the right to really listen to the minister and listen to my fellow MPs, here I am, getting out what, in my opinion, is the essence of what we've been discussing the second day. The bottom line is that this is a way of direct support to the budget, and in order to repay expensive loans or more precisely in exchange for less favourable borrowing, as well as improving the economy under much more favourable conditions and implementing social policy, i.e. by improving social policy. Who made unfavourable arrangements with high interest rates and payment conditions should not remind citizens. They know it, and they remember it. 2016 elections are proof of that. As one of the previous speakers has already said, we would not even talk today about the loan that some politicians were more responsible and committed to the interests of the Republic of Serbia by 2012. Today, we might talk about the conditions under which we lend to others. But, because of the bad governments and their bad ones, I will be free to say, that is, to repeat what we have heard many times, robbery policies, this is not the case in Serbia today. The truth is that every government inherits the past and must deal with that legacy. As part of that legacy, this government today proposes laws on confirming the agreement and ratifys international agreements. In my discussion, I particularly want to refer to the formation of the Western Balkans Fund. I will start with the fact already stated in the address of some MPs, which is that in Article 3 of this Agreement, it says nicely what is at the request of the Republic of Serbia in that article and it is an integral part of the declaration. I will not read it, not to take time, but I will continue by saying that this is about regional co-operation, as an important topic for the functioning of not only political, but also financial life in Serbia. In order for it to be clearer, we must agree on what is true, and there is only one, that is – if we do not participate in the work of regional organisations and funds, then we open up the possibility and give space to Kosovo and Metohija to be a full member of such organisations. We will not do that, nor will we. So I am surprised at the discussion of some MPs who consciously enter a story that has no foothold in the truth, but by taking up media space from this home they think they will have some effect on the citizens. I really don't understand the intention, more specifically, of those who, by their actions and by contesting these projects, are actually undermining national interests. We don't have time to waste anymore, because it's long been spent on us by those whose politics were irresponsible and personally own. I am convinced that this government will use every option in the future, and where it is not there it will fight to create it so that Serbia will never go backwards again, but by a safe step forward and forward itself, as a modern-day state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5069	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Veljkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5070	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, is ahead of us with more contracts and agreements concerning loans from the Republic of Serbia with different financial organisations, with the dominant position taking up a loan agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Abu Dhabi Development Fund for budgetary support due to the amount of loans, as well as an agreement establishing a Fund for the Western Balkans. First of all, I would like to point out that all contracts are in accordance with the Public Debt Act, and in this context I point out the provision of Article 5 of that law, which provides that the Republic of Serbia can be committed to financing the budget deficit, the current liquidity deficit, the refinance of the outstanding debt for investment in capital investments, the acquisition of financial assets and the execution of commitments under the guarantees. The position of the 2nd member is provided for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to decide on the borrowing of the Republic. With careful analysis of the contracts in question, i.e. their essential provisions relating above all to the time period of use of loans, grace periods, interest, it can undoubtedly be concluded that they are excellent financial arrangements. This finding is particularly true for the loan agreement with the Abu Dhabi Development Fund where we have a 10-year maturity period, a grace period of five years and an extremely low interest rate of 2.25 which only says that this loan has been made in addition to the rest of the good political relations between the two governments and personal relations. This is a signal and confirmation to investors that Serbia has credibility. The money will be used in part to cover the budget deficit, and most recently to reprogramme the most unfavourable loans that were taken especially in the period 2008 to 2012 and with an interest rate of up to 8%, which almost led us to the position of a highly-indebted country and to bankruptcy with direct adverse consequences manifested in the one-off interest paid by Serbia of around 1.2 billion euros, which includes among the countries of Europe with the highest interest expenditure and which accounts for around 3.5% of GDP. I'll remind you, since 2005, the race of external debt from year to year has been, you might say, drastic. Every year, the average foreign debt increases by about two billion euros, producing extorted and unpopular measures by the government, Prime Minister Vukic in terms of cuts in public sector earnings and pensions and all in order to avoid total bankruptcy. The basic dilemma that has been manifested today in the Assembly is whether there is a justification for borrowing the state especially in the situation of the current, excellent economic and fiscal results that this government has achieved in the last few years. Of course, arguments can always be found in favour of the lack of justification for borrowing, and there is no unique attitude in economic theory either. I would like to point out that, in the light of the current economic fiscal results that this government has achieved and that there are certainly still problems such as the budget deficit that will be far less than anticipated this year and next, which will be partly used by the funds, and I would also like to potentiate the opinion of all renowned economists who, for the first contract with the Abu Dhabi Fund, are unanimously assessing that such a favourable loan regardless of economic and fiscal results must be taken. There are at least two qualitative differences between the borrowing of previous governments and this government. The first difference relates to the conditions of borrowing that are uncomparably better today than before, which in no doubt speaks of the credibility that enjoys the world of this government, so many financial arrangements stemmed from a wise consistent policy, and in some cases, as I said, excellent personal relations between our prime minister like the Abu Dhabi Fund. Other differences that earlier borrowings did not yield almost any positive economic and fiscal results have led the country to an extremely difficult situation unlike today's moment where all macro-economic movements are favourable. There is no fiscal deficit, public revenues outweigh all forecasts, GDP growth, public debt cuts, business activity accelerates, unemployment decreases. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to look back in a few sentences and a corner with the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe to build and equip a new prison facility in Kragujevac. The need to build new prison facilities is necessary. Although there has been an expansion of capacity from 2012 to now by more than three thousand places. And in this area, it shows what the previous government has left us. On January 1, 2012, the facilities in Serbian prisons were 6,950 seats, and the number of people was 10,958, which means that on average 157 people were placed in 100 real prisons, and Serbia was therefore in the last place according to the Council of Europe data. Appreciated the time, I would ultimately like to point out a completely tentuous and unfounded claim that the confirmation of an agreement on the establishment of the Western Balkans Fund recognises Kosovo and Metohija's independence. Kosovo as a contracting party to the agreement presented in accordance with the agreement on regional representation, and taking into account the interpretation of our country's statement as well as the declared objectives sufficiently speaking, which absolutely do not contain forms of statehood, is sufficiently talking about the malignancies of those who stand at the opposite point of view. As you know, the space of Kosovo and Metohija has been permanently exposed to wars, deaths, turmoil, however I am quite certain that after the 1999 war events and everything after what happened is the greatest temptation and challenge for our people and the country in all our history. This created a negative fact state produced negative consequences in all spheres of our lives and limited the possibilities for normal life and existence. It is precisely such a negative finding of current opportunities that imposes the need to lead one responsible policy, to be wise and insightful in order to realise fundamental, national and state objectives. Until the realization of the same for a long time it will be necessary to take all available measures and activities on the plan to create safe conditions for the life of Serbs, protect human and property rights and protect state interests. This should be done exactly as the Government of the Republic of Serbia has done so far, through talks, seeking compromise solutions with unfortunately numerous and painful mutual concessions, and all in accordance with the known principle, that art policy is possible. Finally, in the expectation that all the effects will be realised through the implementation of these agreements and agreements, I will support these proposals in the voting day as well as my parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5071	Thank you. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5072	Dear fellow Members of the People, I am one of the few in this hall who has listened carefully to the presentations of previous speakers and that is my great regret, I must admit and I am really trying to understand, but I do not understand how the Western Balkans Fund has any importance for Rakovica and how it will introduce dual education and how it will run the economy, it was really not clear to me. But let's get back a little bit of seriousness into this conversation and this dialogue of ours. What I can say is, this fund and the establishment of this fund is not the worst thing you've done, gentlemen of the government when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. I agree with you when you say that there is an interpretative statement that builds Serbia and specifies what is for Serbia Kosovo and Metohija as the signatories of this agreement. So, de jure, you deny the recognition of Kosovo and Metohija, and it can absolutely be agreed by a man with you, but this agreement certainly would not have passed you in the Constitutional Court, but on the other hand I would like to observe on the other hand, the political level and the fact issue. So you know well that recognition in international law does not have a constitutional but a declarative character. There is also Mr. Gajic, legal adviser to the foreign ministry, and it is a great pity that he cannot take part in the debate, because man is quite professional and serious patriot, he was a professor to me at the Faculty of Law. You know very well that you create one effective relationship and that in this multilateral agreement there are countries that recognise KIM and give one fullness of KIM of various relationships and create one complex picture, means the actual recognition of KIM. But let's look at it differently. What is the political goal of establishing the Western Balkans Fund? I couldn't really understand it, nor did anyone else in their right mind explain it. I believe, first of all, I don't think that from the opposition, as you like to point out, they tap into patriotism, and I don't think you're bad patriots, but I think you're running a bad policy when it comes to KIM. If you were to speak freely and freely, and if you were to say what you really think, I am sure most SNS MPs would not vote for this fund, because Serbia has no interest in participating in such a project. The interest of Albania and Albania's national interest in the Balkans is the establishment of one such fund. But since we've established, and we could at Mr. Atlagic's as a history teacher to go to one course, so we've found that we don't know the background of Serbian-Albanian relations, I would remind you of just two events from the very recent past. If you remember the football match between Serbia and Albania. You remember... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5073	Mr. Nogo, I'm asking you to get back on the subject. (Srdian Nogo, from the post: Mr. Chairman, it is truly amazing that I am the only MP who has been interrupted three, four times. The Lords of the ruling majority have spoken many things. I'm talking about the subject. Serbian-Albanian relations are a topic. Fund for the Western Balkans) No, they're not. So, what does that have to do with a football game, please? (Srdian Nogo, from the scene: Mr. Edi Rama, his own brother is responsible for sabotaging the game. Mr. Edi Rama said the other day... Mr. Nogo, I turned off your microphone. (Srjan Nogo, from the scene: you now with Eddie Rama... Mr. Nogo, you're off. I interrupted your exposure because you're not on the subject, and you can work as hard as you want. (Srdian Nogo, from the post: Western Balkans Fund is not a topic? You, Mr. Nogo, ask yourself, if they take away your word four times, you have a serious problem then. Then you can't find yourself in the subject. It's not the chairman, it's you. Mr. Nogo, I proved my patriotism in 1989 in that Kosovo, both in 1991 and in 1992, and in 1999, and don't teach me patriotism. Are you going back to the agenda or are you going to talk about a football game?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5074	I don't understand why my word is off, but good. Obviously, it is forbidden to talk about the Western Balkans Fund, so it would refer to these loans as well. So we have one loan relating to reform and state administration modernisation, 69m euros. Otherwise, the fees for this loan are quite high, so the effective interest rate is above the nominal interest rate and we could certainly find it in commercial banks of this kind of credit, but I honestly hoped that the policy of these loans, where we withdraw the credit, would immediately give it to some foreign consultants who needed to come to us and some lectures on state administration reform were held at the beginning of two thousand years, so, in that time that Mr. Martinovic recently mentioned as a bad time. I thought it was forever for us, but there it is, the SNS and it's coming back. I thought there was nothing worse than Mirko Cvetkovic after Serbia's debt, but it is obvious that Mr. Vukic and Mr. Vujovic are worse than Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5075	The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5076	Your Honor, Madam President, the previous speaker mentioned me in a negative context. I have no intention of having him as my history teacher. I am a professor of history, among other things, at the Faculty of Philosophy in Kosovo Mitrovica. My students know very well how I treat KIM. And I am informing the uninformed that I have proven my patriotism in Krajina, The Hague and KIM. Let me say that one representative from the same political party said yesterday, quote - today should celebrate Pristina when we celebrate the practical recognition of Kosovo's independence, finished quote, the stenographic notes page 20. It is untruthful, unresponsible, irresponsible, low, unpatriot, ground floor, cafe, and is not fitting to one MP to the people, or to an intellectual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5077	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5078	Mr. Atlagic, I have the right as deputy president of the parliamentary group. You said the MP of our MP group said that. First of all, I did not mention you in a negative context, if you listened well, but I mentioned you as a professor of history so that you could also meet colleagues from the parliamentary group on relations between Serbia and Albania. That's the first one. (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: Come to history lessons in Kosovo Mitrovica. Classes are held in Kosovo Mitrovica. I'm sorry, really. I didn't throw it away and I didn't interrupt Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5079	Please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5080	You're literally showing nothing but your inexperience, but it doesn't matter. Mr. Atlagic, I've just shown that in fact you are contributing to the recognition of KIM. So, de jure, you've made a statement that you're building on, but by entering a multilateral contract that builds a complex series of relations with kiM, you're involved in building a false and self-called KIM state. But that's not the worst thing you've done.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5081	Who, MP?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5082	Government, Government of the Republic of Serbia. I apologize for speaking to the MP. So, the government of the Republic of Serbia does that, and all MPs who vote for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5083	Ambassador, don't say that. Don't stick labels to people here.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5084	Madam Chairman, that is my political opinion, that this is a profoundly wrong policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5085	But you have no right to insult people.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5086	How did I offend you?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5087	You insulted me. Well, I'll vote for the deal. You insulted me. It's not patriotism just pouring words into the air.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5088	Take it easy.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5089	I know slowly. So, you're in line with everyone. You wanted to answer... (Srjan Nogo, from the scene: you've replicated in my replica. You interrupted me. I'm good at saying that... I think you're making a deep mistake in your politics. All right, enlighten us. It doesn't make sense, really. I will vote yes, the SNS MPs and the ruling majority will vote yes and will vote more MPs in favour. (Srjan Nogo, from the post: they will vote for because you will press the bells to vote. That's a shame. Ambassador, I give you a warning. This is really embarrassing. You're humiliating the parliamentarians of the Republic of Serbia. (Srjan Nogo, from the place: No, you humiliate them! You humiliate them. I do not allow certain MPs here to humiliate the messengers and tell them how they will and what they will vote on. We have never heard from the ruling majority, from the MPs, that they insult the MPs because they will vote against. It's your right. But so much insult, so many labels stuck together, I don't understand what's going on? (Srjan Nogo, from the scene: To lead the wrong policy, is that an insult? Don't yell, we're not at the bar. I hope someone will say that the violation of the Rules of Procedure, that the dignity of parliament is threatened, and that when someone from the opposition insults the MPs of the majority, you all abstain. I don't understand. I won't let us have MPs in the first and second order. The word has Minister Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5090	I'll let our viewers assess what's true and what's not true. I just want a comment on one sentence that this World Bank loan to finance public administration reform is a set of loans that can be found elsewhere. The law explains: "0.71% is a margin, plus Euribor is currently minus 0.21%, so the interest rate is 0.5%, and that's expensive for you? I think our people understand very well what an interest rate of 0.5% means. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5091	The People's Messenger Stanislav Janosevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5092	Thank you, President of the Assembly. Honored ministers with associates, respected MPs, respected fellow citizens, before I take part in today's debate on the famous topic, I must commend Minister Vujovic and thank him for the efforts he is making to, even if 100 times, clarify financial structures for all those who do not understand them, and rather I would say that they may be wrong, because they did not have as good a place as the current government has. Thank you, colleagues, as I thank my fellow MPs, so I would also thank the MPs from the opposite part of the hall, but for the ironic applause, because it does not show much kindness and I must admit that I understand you. [[Applause]] I understand, because you really have who and what to applaud, and you shouldn't just do that, but you should thank the current government, because it's got the strength and it's chosen the right way to lead this country. In the context of this united debate, I will particularly put an emphasis on the draft law on the validation of the Financial Treaty for the loan application for small and medium-sized enterprises between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Fund and the National Bank of Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia has taken a responsible approach to defining a package of measures that will improve access to finance for small and medium-sized enterprises, which means the banking sector's attitude towards the same, as well as new financial instruments. What is very good is that the implementation of the "Year of Entrepreneurship" programme, which is dedicated to 16 billion dinars, of which 4.4 billion is irrevocable. What exactly does this project mean? It is that the business environment, administrative procedures, will be improved, young women with 50% imputable start-ups, support for the uptake of equipment to small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as the employment of new workers. Among other things, a reform of administrative procedures is expected to reduce costs and increase company transparency, but human resources need to be developed with market needs, as well as technological developments, which will enable the state directly, but also with the help of donors and investors. However, we are witnessing that we are not only expecting help from donors and investors, but we are also forming a favourable climate for many investors and we are witnessing that just a few days ago new "Aster" textile production factories in Nis, steel construction "Technostructure" in Zrenjanin, a car industry "Mecafor" factory in Kikinda, happened for just a few days in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia. This makes it perfectly clear and justified to me the proposal for a law on the validation of the said financial loan, because it is in line with the Strategy to support the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. This will also cover economic development, but also projects in the field of knowledge, environmental protection, health and education. What is a special accent is that the initiative titled "Works for Young Western Balkans" is something that will promote the employment of a younger population. Minister Knezevic recently apostrophe that there are 350,000 small and medium-sized enterprises in Serbia who employ close to a million inhabitants, and for this reason is an emphasis on the development of this sector where investors will also be affected by the position of domestic companies to join the chain of suppliers and co-operatives. Serbia can finally do anything, can grow and develop, build, open factories, learn, be healthier and safer. With that, I will support the motions to amend the laws of this unique search, and what I call on my colleagues to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5093	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Vesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5094	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, one of Serbia's biggest politicians, Jovan Ristic, said MPs are expected to have mature thinking, not quick judgment. By joining what is incompatible in one item of the agenda and the loan from the Abu Dhabi Fund and the loan to build a correctional home and loan for urban regeneration of the city of Kralje, we reduce the possibility of free expression of will in this Parliament and the possibility of discussion. Mr. Minister himself said the decision on the loan was made with great delay, as the earthquake hit, I am talking about the loan for urban regeneration of the city of Kraljev, the town of Kraljevo in November 2010. It's 2016 today. The first tranche of the loan should be withdrawn by 27 April 2017 and the last or final tranche of the loan until 31 December 2019. As a man trying to deal with politics responsibly, I went to the mayor of the city of kings, no matter what he was a member of another political orientation, and I had a conversation with him. In that conversation, we came to the conclusion that urban regeneration of the city will not be completed until 2021/22. A year. So 12 years will pass from the moment the 366 families we're talking about are unhappy by the earthquake. I accept all the objective and subjective factors that have conditioned such an extended deadline and all this time. I ask the question – how much of that time did what nobody here mentioned take? That after the arrival of the SNS to power in the city of Kraljev, a former mayor was arrested on charges of malfeasance of financial nature in the earthquake, that then the leading men were arrested and so maimed construction operatives of the city of Kralje and there was nothing after all. I ask the question - how many times has it taken away from us by Mr. Prime Minister Alexander Vukic, who said during the floods, that there would be no allow for theft in floods, such as thefts in the King's earthquake? I ask the question - if the theft was, why is no one being prosecuted, no one being convicted? If there was no theft, I pray that the sleaze that was cast upon the citizens of the city of the Kings be removed from our cheeks. Out of 15 million, the regeneration of the city of Kraljev, eight million is the size of the loan, and some 4.2 million should secure the city of Kraljevo. It's a circus of about 500 million dinars, and 15 days ago we passed a law that we take out of the King's annual budget 45 million each, so we multiply another six years by the end, 45 times six is 270, and we have to give 500 million. It seems to me that this SNS policy towards the city of King looks like that – she's taking the giving, we're going to give it to you, and here we're going to take it. But the other thing got me worried. When I read the contract, in the language interpretation of Article 4.1.4 of the treaty, it is said that it is Serbia's obligation not to make transactions with parties to which the UN and the Council of Europe have taken sanctions, and that is normal. It's not just about financial transactions here, possibly, for example, with Al-Qaeda, but other organizations under which sanctions have been taken. I am not lazy, I go to the Euro/lex site and I find a list of decisions of the Council of Europe and among them a number of decisions relating to Russian entities, starting with Decision No 2014/38 and now I ask – will 37 Russian companies with Crimea be able to participate in the urban regeneration of the city of Kraljes, because we have sanctions against them, or I ask – do we impose sanctions on Russia in one way and swear that we will not do so? Did this Council of Europe manage to implement what he was saying a long time ago, say, Sun Cu and who was saying he knew he was at war by the one who brought down a country without using an army?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5095	Thank you. I gave you ten seconds more. You've wasted your time. (Dear Vesovic, from the post: But I will vote for this because I am from the Kings, because this is the smallest loan. You confused me. You want a replica? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5096	I thank the chairman. We have heard a lot about the burden of the SNS, but it should be said that the Royals did not blame them for being led by dishonest people from other parties at that time and that the evidence for judicial proceedings in a magical way burned down. So they couldn't be prosecuted with penalties for which they would really have the proper punishment to follow. All those arrested. As far as international tenders are concerned, you and any of us who are going to win a tender for the performance of the works will simply be a public competition and whoever makes the best offer by international standards will do the work. Therefore, the SNS seeks to really move the King in a new direction through development and modernisation, and all those who have had a chance and have not done so speak only of them and have therefore gone into political past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5097	The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. The other MPs have given up.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5098	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the peoples and respected citizens of Serbia, I will say something about the Law establishing the Fund for the Western Balkans. I must say immediately that he has his foothold in the exposé of the Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic, whom he presented to us to the MPs on 9 August, Mr. 2016. The exposé of the Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic, is the most transparent, most concrete, most precise, the largest and best of all previous exhibits 73, starting with the first Prime Minister, against Matija Nenadovic in 1805 until today. I would like to remind you, Madam President, that for the first time in recent history, a Prime Minister's exhibition was quoted in an international magazine on the "Si" list, which is Mr. Prime Minister. On the page of three exposés, the short version of Prime Minister Alexander Vukic's exposés, I quote - the affirmation of the Republic of Serbia, as the headquarters of regional co-operation constructively, strongly committed and actively engaged in improving relations in the region and deepening and concreteising co-operation in regional frameworks, both in bilateral and regional initiatives and mechanisms, will be the priority of this government, finished quote. Here it is, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Law on Confirmation of the Fund for the Western Balkans is here on the table, we are discussing it today. That's how the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Vukic. According to a system rarely seen in our political culture, and this system is written, said, established. As you can see in the exposé, said August 9th in this high house and today, as you see realized, in this National Assembly. The honourable MPs, respected citizens of KIM, have no valid reason to withdraw this law, and there is no reason to claim that this is a step towards recognising the independence of KIM. It is simply not true, gentlemen, and you are not misleading the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. This is a contract signed by several states and one territory. That's true, everything else is false. Dear ladies and gentlemen, what is important for the citizens of KiM, which is that the government is headed by Aleksandra Vukic, tried to solve several regional projects on KIM, which is, firstly, the regional waters of Zubin Potok, Kosovo Mitrovica, Zvecan, why didn't you mention it today? Secondly, the construction of the Banjski complex will end in this term and third, we hope there will also be a building of the University of Kosovo's Mitrovica Rectorate. Dear People's MPs, one representative of a minor political party, whose leader is known only for coming down through a chimney into the attic of the National Assembly and from the attic pressured the Republic Commission, said the government of the Republic of Serbia is not paying enough attention to small and medium-sized enterprises, which is a notorious lie and notorous lie. This bill of approval of the Treaty on Small and Medium Enterprises is now being denied. But don't be surprised, this MP usually tells the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5099	Time, MP. Thank you. (Marko Atlagic, from the place: Let me finish.) Finish your sentence and do not continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5100	A national MP today, the former regime, said the SNS employs party employment, and I quote – in the Vojvodina Executive Council, Pajtic hired aunts, sisters, aunts, swastikas, snorkels and godmothers. At the Vojvodina Executive Council, 670 were employed during Bosko Perosevic, and Pajtic increased to 2700, completed a quote, Goran Jesic in 31.5.2012. Was he telling the truth before or now?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5101	Thank you. (Tatyana Macura throws out of town. So you insult him based on being an MP at a certain age, that's very nice. We got off to a good start. When it is cast, it is time for Serbian citizens to hear the beauty of treating colleagues who are in a certain age, by the DJB parliamentary group, who constantly reminds us of the Rules of Procedure. I'm sorry. (Milos Boskovic, from the city: Rules of Procedure. Here you are, Messenger Boskovic. I will certainly warn you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5102	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I would like to report a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a Member of the 106th speaker can speak only of the item of the agenda under investigation, concerning Mr Atlagic, as always. Now, Mr. Atlagic was talking about a subject he was very interested in, and that's Mr. Vukic's exposé. Let me explain what it looks like when you're talking off topic, that I'm talking a little bit about what I'm interested in.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5103	No, he can't. (Milos Boskovic, from the post: Allow, 10 seconds only. I can't. You're the one who reported after the breach of the Rules of Procedure. (Milos Boskovic, from the post: I only ask for 10 seconds. Sign up.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5104	Thank you. Like this, some of the shows I like to watch: "Breaking in Bad", "House of Cards", "Game of Trones" great, everybody knows that, "Narcos", German "Dutchland draj un ahcing", a very good series, "Cold War", "Silicon Valley", "Halt and Catch Fire", if you're interested, it scene of the '80s, as it went, very good, "Black mirror", British, great.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5105	23, 24, 25, and there's a Danish one... (Milos Boskovic, from the post: I call on Mr Atlagic, we will discuss these things privately, he discusses the exposé, I will talk about the series I like to watch. ) You were in the topic, more or less, contained politically. There's an excellent Danish called "The Prime Minister", excellent. Since we've exhausted the list, which one of the authorities wants to use the right of Article 96 on condition that he has time? Marinika Tipic, time 3,42.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5106	I thank the president. Dear guests from the Republic government, colleagues and fellow MPs, let's believe that the LSV task of the United Arab Emirates is worth a billion dollars and we need it, but what left us open to doubt is, when it comes to the way these funds are going to be spent, we have stayed with the dilemmas since the first day the debate started. As Minister Vujovic himself admitted, the control body announced when the first loan of this type was taken in 2014, at the same amount, but with a slightly lower interest, has not been established so far. It was then announced by the Governor of the National Bank of Ms Tabakovic. However, even if it was established, only the control or supervisory role of law enforcement has been played by parliament, or MPs. With this in mind, I asked Minister Vujovic a few days ago, when we started this debate, to give us, in order to also believe in the way and justification of spending these funds, which are now in charge of the RS government, to provide us with information on that loan from 2014. Unfortunately, here, while the debate was going on, we didn't get those funds. I believe that perhaps in some later period, I ask you to do so, to deliver it to the MPs, because there is no other way for us to get that data. However, what remains as a further dilemma are assumptions that we are free to believe and stem from the basic law on the agreement between the two governments, between the Government of the United Arab Emirates, which is also the basis for these loans and which is in force for the next 10 years, began in 2014, when the law was passed and, of course, with the possibility of extension, unless any of the parties to the agreement gave up. Is this, given that the practice has become to borrow from the United Arab Emirates and, as far as I know, this loan has been, Ministers, foreseen by the 2016 budget, even in a slightly larger amount than it is now, whether, in accordance with this behaviour, in fact, for a period of 10 years, initial 10 years under the basic law between the two governments, plans and later, or regularly, to say, borrowing from the United Arab Emirates? What we also have as an open question, and I am simply taking advantage of the opportunity that you are here and that the negotiating chapters and transparency in the area of finance and public tendering, etc., I am taking the opportunity to ask you what this Lex specialis means in terms of transparency, which is also questionable for us from LSV in the law on confirming a co-operation agreement between the two governments, which is the basis for all the consequences...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5107	Time, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5108	Can I finish my sentence, since it's a minister's question? In Article 6, this agreement says – agreement and contracts, programmes and projects...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5109	Just finish the sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5110	Well, one sentence is Article 6.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5111	To quote, Article 6?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5112	Three rows. I quote - that all agreements and contracts are not subject to public procurement, public tendering, public competition or other procedure provided for by national... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5113	Thank you. We've got to get this over with. You said Article 6, the minister will look at it by then, and he'll answer you. The word has been made by MP Srdjan Nogo, 34 seconds of time left.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5114	The Dvori parliamentary group will vote against all proposed agenda points, because we do not believe that the policy, which has been run continuously in Serbia from 2000 to today, can bring about a better one. We do not believe that the country can go into economic development through permanent new borrowings and we do not believe that because of the EU, which is falling apart to our great happiness, we should give up our national interests. The Dvori policy differs from SNS policy and I am sure voters will see for themselves that SNS is talking and doing each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5115	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric. You've got 3.05 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5116	Thank you. At the beginning of this debate, on behalf of the DS Parliament Club, I said that we would support, since tonight, it seems to me, most of all, that we were talking about setting up a fund for the Western Balkans, that we would support this agreement for a number of reasons. I also cited these reasons, important regional co-operation, and I wouldn't repeat it, but I think it's a suggestion for you, who are here defending this proposal for an agreement, and for most of you, who defended this agreement, to pay more attention to and listen to those people who think and otherwise. What makes me say that? The key arguments tonight were the invitation to CEFTA and the charges against the then government of Prime Minister Kostunica, that at the time CEFTA nine free trade countries were signed and then UNMIK on behalf of Kosovo. The other day, the prime minister, the Prime Minister, admitted publicly that he was passionate about signing the CEFTA, and we all heard it and we were here in this room, and he admitted that he was wrong. It's a great step, it's a great step that the ministry should also encourages them to admit sometimes that the uninvented also make good proposals. Here, after 2006, it has been 10 years, the prime minister admits that it was extremely good to sign CEFTA, although he was against it at the time, even though most of the MPs of the then SRS were against it, but that gives exceptional effects in economic terms and that it is useful for the Republic of Serbia, we have heard that clearly. I wish there had been an earlier recognition of the need and that Serbia should react differently and lead the policy after the Berlin Wall's collapse. And we heard that confession, that it didn't understand in time what it meant to bring down the Berlin Wall. I think these are important messages for all of us, that we have this kind of dialogue on all topics, not just foreign policy, but economic. We are now listening here, and we really have a problem, arguments explaining that the 2012 debt, the public debt of the Republic of Serbia, amounting to 14.8 billion or, let's say, 15 billion euros is something equal to or perhaps greater than 25 billion or 24.2 billion at this point. And you, Mr. Minister, have been calling for a period of time since you've been carrying that responsibility. I understand your responsibility and I really think you're doing a good job. Here, I'm going to tell you this publicly now, I think you're doing this job well, but you're defending the period in which you weren't in that government, and we're only talking about the need to accept that this current majority has the highest responsibility for borrowing Serbia since May 2012, after these elections, to this day, and that's 10 billion euros more and, just as the prime minister has said, the responsibilities of future generations in the Republic of Serbia. This is what we need to understand and I think that in such an open conversation, we can contribute to better solutions in our congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5117	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5118	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think in these two working days we could have determined that the party of the former regime would not forgive its own mistakes. We raise one loan with interest of 2.25 to pay back the debts they owed at the interest rate of 7.25. One billion is the difference of 50 million a year. In 10 years, that's 500 million. The new government is so much more effective and better than the previous governments formed by the former regime's party. I do agriculture. The peasants are also in the most difficult circumstances this laugh is like this, most likely that a colleague from the Deputies understands agriculture as well as the economy, but there's no problem. I come from agriculture, and peasants are hard to go bankrupt. They won't let 14 of their bosses run the same man. Every one of them fights. There are good and bad land in the country. They're the good ones who do business with profits. It's good, too, those who withdraw loans, loans, but for these loans they buy land, machinery, equipment, buy cattle, see that through investments they have a source of debt returns. That's what good agricultural landmen do. Take advantage of the machinery, give birth next year, sell cattle, service loans and debts both to themselves and to their loved ones more divided. Farmers also have public spending. They have to school, they have to support the old, they have to build infrastructure, through the courtyards, etc. They've got to make casserole before, but when they cross a river or stream, they're looking to bridge it where it's cheapest and it's tightest, not where it's four times wider, like the party of the former regime did. They have agricultural holdings and public spending, and they have income. They're making a profit deal. There are also bad agricultural holdings in the country. It's the ones that sell piece by piece of land, like privatization, say, what it was. Well, when they sell it, they also sell donor support, which is what their neighbors help them to spend. When they take credit, they go to sea. Buy a car, crash. They don't make a source for debt returns, and that's how agricultural land goes down. The inhabitants, or locals of that agricultural land, then live in poverty and, of course, those who did well try to reach their land and capital and get to that as cheaply as possible. When a change occurs in a poor agricultural land and the boss changes, a young heir comes, neighbors look to help. They're looking to lend loans with a lower interest, if they notice that the poor agricultural landowner wants to recover, that she wants to buy a tractor, that she wants to process the country, that she wants to invest, that she wants it to be respected, and that she wants to hang out with the successful in the village. It's the same with countries in the world. I believe, the minister is there, that the government, whose president – the president of the party with which the People's Peasants' Party was in the coalition in 2012 and 2014 and 2016, has made a country that can live on its incomes. That's unequivocal. It could easily raise salaries and pensions far more, if it didn't have to pay back what those poor agricultural holdings owed, what the party of the former regime spent – 17.6 billion by the end of 2012, so much debt, spent the donation support of 4.1 billion, spent revenues from the privatisation of 6.7 billion, spent 4.7 billion forgiveness of the debts of the London and Paris Club, one billion Agrobanks and the Vojvodine Development Bank. The total debt isn't 17.6. It's 34.1 billion when we count it all in. The economy owed 22 billion by the end of 2012. Then it was not expected to expect the 22 billion-dollar economy to serve a government debt of 17.6 plus what they had wasted in privatisation, in donor support, in what the Paris and London Club forgave. So, they spent it all, and now that the piled up problems have left us, now they're complaining why we're doing it at the same speed that they've accumulated it, we don't fix it in a hurry. So I'm saying they don't even want to forgive us for their mistakes anymore. I believe that this country has finally stepped on its feet and that it is not the 170 billion from the budget that is being paid for the debt and interest of 130 billion and part of the capital, and if I am not mistaken, we have adopted that budget, that was 170 billion, I believe that we could raise pensions and salaries automatically. The greater evil than anything I've counted for a party of the former regime is the next. If they had fired 400,000 people, put in debt, covered everything, bought other people's goods for someone else's money, their main products were government bonds. The greater evil of all this was philosophy – better introduced than produced. Also, there were 400,000 people who were fired from the income side who went on the expenditure side and became another cost that bound the next governments that came after 2012. I think we changed them too late and that today good people are suffering in Serbia because they did not in time bring down the bad government that ruled from 2012 in Vojvodina until 2016. The country of Serbia can meet everyone's needs. It is a rich and fertile country where poor and hungry people have been found, which the party of the former regime has brought into that position. The earth gives enough to meet everyone's needs, but not everyone's greed, especially theirs. And to conclude my speech, "Pink Panther" is a small baby compared to the party of the former regime, i.e. the yellow power was far stronger than "Pink Panther", which is known in the world as the biggest robber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5119	Before I give you my word, for the record, I want to enter the record, withdraw the warning that I gave to Srdjan Nog today. There's a reason. Here you go, MPs, Sonja Pavlovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5120	Do we want to go together? Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Article 106. Shall we go together? The speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: That was already. ) The Honorable Chairman, but not on this subject, not on this issue. I can understand that you too have an understanding of this agrarian-pastoral approach of the previous speaker, that's fine, but I do ask you to bear in mind that this is not an analysis of the work of the previous governments. We have very specific topics today that we need to wrap up this debate. I ask you best to lead the order in this debate as your Rules of Procedure determines. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5121	What do you say? No, I prefer it when someone speaks nice peasant language. You don't have to wrap it up, agrarianly, rurally and whatever, people, pastorally, or I don't know what to say. I understand this MP, and I can't stop him. He was completely in the dark.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5122	But I speak the language I know, I don't know about that rural one.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5123	Yeah, that's it now new, rural, like this, like that. That's nice to me, peasant. I understand completely, and absolutely no Rules of Procedure have been broken, because this MP...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5124	The topic is not an analysis of the work of previous governments, please. In that sense, I believe, I have an understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5125	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5126	No, we all know that. Here, we're trying to bring the topic to an end today and I'm asking you best to do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5127	We will, of course. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, here's Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5128	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, Article 103, paragraphs 7 and 8, I don't know if there's any time left. In connection with article 107, a violation of dignity. I'll be very brief. I'm not easily offended. Me, maybe, sometimes I can hurt better than me, worse not. Thank you. I'm not asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5129	Okay. Thank you. The word is Alexander Stevanović. You have two minutes and 50 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5130	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable President, the Honorable Minister, I would like to thank you for a good debate we had, at least with the Minister about the bill, because we could exchange arguments. And also with colleagues who don't think the same thing, who used arguments, thank them for the debate, for thanking others who haven't discussed it, because there's a lot that can be concluded out of it. What's kind of left of me as one inconvenience at the end, that's the fact that we've gone lightly beyond our law saying that duty is as much as possible as it is, and that we're now talking about another duty. It's not a big problem, I totally understand that mastrix is now a perfectly normal category for us, but all the countries are legal offices, and just like the United States almost every year or every other move the upper limit of duty or not move it, so it's a crisis, so our country has to do it so that we don't drag that tail, that we easily ignore what it says in our regulations. No more than that. With this level of interest rates in the world, the current conukture and the works that have resulted in certain consolidations, I fully agree that we can swim at 60% and not be at risk of bankruptcy. As far as that goes, you're absolutely right, but I think it's necessary for us to coordinate this one thing, and it would be good for this initiative to come from a ministry that has the power to propose this little change that everyone in this house might agree on, because it's simply one reality. I deeply hope that we can stay at that 60% as we approach certain standards in managing the country's finances. It's one very important thing. Also, as far as currency risk is concerned, I was very pleased that you want to work towards the management of the currency risk that exists in the best countries, and that by then we will have a conservative policy of coherence, or that we will watch how we will finance and refinance the currency, in order to avoid being repeated in 2014. What we would really like to get is one demonstration of how the funding was spent in 2014. At present, there is a great gift to this loan, I am not saying that in seven or eight years it will not change, because courses are a variable category, but it would be very good for this home and at all for people in Serbia, and you are a man who advocates transparency and the public and I congratulate you from the heart on, to see how it has been spent, or whether the funds are dominantly spent in a way that is best for the management of currency risk. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5131	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Ambassador, Plasimir Stević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5132	Dear Presidents, ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, much has been said about Kosovo and Metohija in the past two days. I look forward to this concern and concern for Kosovo and Metohija, but I hope it is not just declarative and verbal. What I reported an hour ago advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure, one of the previous speakers in his discussion said that Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija in their country feel like citizens of the second order. I think it's false, that it's incorrect, that Serbs besides their mother Serbia and the government of the Republic of Serbia don't feel like second-class citizens. They showed this in the election ahead of the ruling coalition by opting for the government's programme in over 90%. Serbs are confident and confident that the government of the Republic of Serbia will lead and protect national and state interests in the area of Kosovo and Metohija, especially the interests of Serbs from the area of Kosovo and Metohija. Since the prime minister and this assembly announced a special session on Kosovo and Metohija during the two-day debate, which takes a lot of time and many reasons. In the opening statement, I said and made clear what I wanted to take advantage of the rest of the time, and I wasn't talking about two agreements that I thought I was told about. This is about confirming a loan agreement on modernisation, optimisation of public administration between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, signed on 16 May this year. The public administration reform strategy in the Republic of Serbia, adopted in 2014 and implemented in accordance with the Action Plan, envisions the achievement of priorities set. Improving the organisation and functioning of the state administration system, strengthening human resources management, supporting the development of the employee management system and supporting the wage system, improving public finance management and public procurement, improving legal certainty and the business environment and quality of services provided by state authorities, increasing transparency and strengthening the government's capacity to exercise supervision. In line with the 2016 Resolution of the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia Strategy, the debt of the Republic of Serbia to the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development is foreseen up to $75m for the state administration's modernisation and optimisation project. The loan is set in line with the principle of budget support, an estimated 17-year repayment period, including a period of up to five years. I would point out that the Government of the Republic of Serbia adopted an ambitious programme of fiscal consolidation and structural reforms in 2014. If at the beginning of 2015 it is confirmed by the conclusion of a precautionary arrangement with the IMF. The draft law confirming the loan framework agreement between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia was signed in Paris on 27 January 2016 and 5 February 2016 in Belgrade. The law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2016 approved the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia to the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe up to 17m euros for the project to build new prison facilities in Kragujevac. The project aims to provide support for implementation of the strategy for reforming the system and enforcement of prison sanctions by the justice ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5133	Thank you. The word is Alexandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5134	The esteemed chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, here we can finally say that the past in Serbia, budgets with hidden deficits run through business banks and guarantees from public enterprises, is simply the past and the time when the IMF is expelled from Serbia. What is encouraging, and that is what the Minister said at the press conference yesterday, is that Serbia is practically certain about the situation that there will never be any bankruptcy again, that our public finances are recovering and that we are coming into a situation to talk about growth and development when we have practically 2.7 project growth and development for this year. What is important to say is that the subsequent mind of some parties who have spoken about patriotism speaks only about the petty own interests of individuals who want to simply stay on the political scene with missed stories that have never been brought to Serbia today, and even today, they cannot bring anything good, especially when we talk about people in Kosovo and Metohija. So when we talk about the Fund for the Balkans, we are practically talking about a reflection of a responsible foreign political and regional policy in Serbia. Finally, it should be said that the loan, when we talk about Abu Dhabi and the support of the United Emirates concerning Serbia, refers not only to the budget but also to the start of structural reforms, but also to the support of certain financial centres, when I talk about projects concrete about redefining and more efficient functioning of public administration. We're talking about concrete projects that the previous governments didn't have the courage to implement to the end. All this says and leads to all the results showing that Serbia is going in the right direction and Duing's business list where we came to 47th place, at a lightning speed, shows our desire that regardless of what we've come to the right place, the tendency is to enter the first 30th place, but that is followed by a large number of infrastructure projects Serbia has not had in the last 30 years. Finally, it should be said that this set of laws that were on the agenda today, I hope that the parties who voted in 2009, 2010, 2011 for the support of entrepreneurship will certainly vote on the day they are able and I hope that when we talk about the laws that support projects such as the King's will be supported by all MPs from the King no matter what political option they support, in which Member's club they are located. So, I think that in the voting day, indeed these laws will have the support of many MPs, not just MPs of the ruling majority. I think it will show that Serbia really overcomes certain political disagreements when it comes to political parties, especially when the higher interests of state are at stake and some of the interests of local self-government, but also when the fight for strong and modern Serbia is ahead of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5135	The word has Minister Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5136	We spent a lot of time last week and today in discussions of more or less similar and similar issues. In a brief explanation, allow only a few notes. So, first and foremost, for each of these five loans that we've seen today, I think it can be said that the alternative is not to take any of these loans or not to sign this agreement completely inferior to the alternative to accept it. This does not mean that any of these alternatives are ideal, it just means that in the real world, in real circumstances in which Serbia is 2.25% for free budget support of 0.71%, for World Bank credit, which is still focused on one area, although it is also providing budget support, but it is limited, and very competitive rates, very low rates for projects that are useful to us, such as prison and as a settlement for socially vulnerable groups in an earthquake affected area, that it is the right way to borrow funds, that debt can be a good friend. Bad governance, bad reporting, we can't stop it by not borrowing especially if we inherited a situation where without borrowing would be a collapse. So, if you inherited a situation where your deficit is large and large in relation to the social product, regardless of whether it's 40% or 60%, it's amounts that can't turn overnight. So the alternative in which some implications suggest we stop borrowing tomorrow is simply impossible, as a man can't stop eating to lose weight, so neither can we. We are now, most importantly, on the path of a controlled debt reduction and at a price and by a quantity expressed as an estimate of a social product. That's the most important thing. So there are a thousand criticisms of everything we do. The last criticism I'm going to accept is criticism that we are being imputed to allow unlimited debt growth. It's the opposite of common sense and facts and everything else. We've turned the dynamics of debt growth. The five billion you mention in the period from July 2012 to April 2014 are a huge part of 3.6 billion out of five billion, 3.6 billion was a deficit, and the rest are all the other things we know today on our backs, which is "Srbigas" 360 million, a loan app that is here 250 million, that is the liquidation of banks and other costs of 620 million etc. These are all the known costs we talked about and these are the costs that started earlier, they just came out in the period 2012-2014. Remember, in September 2011 before the elections, six months before the elections and in 2012 we took a billion euros to patch up the hole in the register, we had no money to pay our debts and everyone knew it. And what's worst, the worst thing is in such a situation, when you have the least money you need the biggest liquidity since your monthly deficits are the biggest and no one has patience. When someone sees the bottom of the register, they'll come after you to pay back your debts. We're out of that period, now we need much less liquidity. It's the privilege of those who are good. How many foreign reserves have developed countries? Look. They've got an incomparably less. We have foreign reserves one-third of the social product. Developed countries would consider that a total waste of money. We keep it so that we can give our trustees confidence that we are good, and that's what we pay and everything else we pay. We're paying to get out of this crisis. I repeat, we do not have an increase in long weakness. You're looking for other weaknesses. We've got plenty of them. Our main weaknesses are that we don't want to realize that we haven't come out of this situation yet, that we're going out in a year or two, but that we're on the right track. The other thing is very important, and your instinct isn't in a good place, and that's reporting. I fully support every initiative and proposal to report everything we do first on ourselves, then Parliament, and committees of parliament and committees of parliament and all others. We have bodies already negotiating that they will have a higher degree of transparency. It can't be tomorrow, but it'll be at the right time, at the right time. There is a much greater problem in reporting on the spending of funds and effects on projects than on the programmes. The programs are these for the budget. We don't have a problem with the budget. We promised it at the last session. It's too early now. We'll send you a list when the money went to bed, a billion euros last August, and every payment, that's the money on the National Bank's account, and every payment, any interest payments in dollars. I said we don't play with currency risk. We used it for dollar obligations. We haven't changed the structure. Therefore, every payment and liquidity movement went on for months. You'll get a report without a problem. That's what's in the vault and the National Bank. Secondly, you need to get it for the budget in the final budget account. Because of some inherited desire to be perfect, we do not give or discuss this final account. I am now trying to make a report in which for all our reserves we will have footnotes, explanation, methodology and in other details. I think this parliament should and must watch that execution, because I think the little things that might be ironed there are so small in relation to the doubt that the non-discussion of that budget creates. I'll be sure to make sure you have the execution report in front of you as soon as possible. It will show you not only the state of budget execution, but also the state of project loans, the situation in all the elements of the budget. Thirdly, this year we are entering the next step of programming, where certain key elements in the budget will be collected according to the programmes, that we know not only how we spend money from the budget, but also where the money ends. For example, we finance medical equipment from the budget. This Parliament and we need to know whether that equipment ended up in the right place, whether there are rooms, trained people, whether there are patients and what effects it has given. We can't do this right now, but we can leave right now. And it will also be done. The fourth thing, very important, and we're still breaking spears here because they're huge. We want, as we did two, three years ago, all those things that haven't been seen before, and all those deficits that we're talking about haven't been seen before, since we kept them under that first line, we moved it over that line. The Republic budget, if you look at seven, eight years ago, followed a second methodology, that a bunch of these things were removed from the radar, as they would say. We've put it all up now and just right service, returning the mains below the line. We also want something that is on the side, is not removed, as it appears in the budget, i.e. in the balance sheet of the general state, which is project loans, balances, i.e. the results of the localities, Serbian Corridors, Serbian Ways, localities, etc., all of this affects the balance sheet of the general state, but these projects are not implemented through the budget of the Republic, except for a small part. We want to extend the budget with your consent, to monitor every project loan from the moment of approval to the moment of withdrawal, to monitor the implementation of projects and effects. Right now, we're doing it on the side. So we're not hiding anything, but it's kind of passive. It is a Article 3 that also has guarantees, funding, free funding of deficits and projects, but they are not linked. You need to know everything and what the project is, when, where, etcetera, to connect. We want to know exactly where the projects go, who they finance and what the effects of these projects are. This will require much greater preparation, but I think in a year, two, three, we'll be proud, that we'll know who, what he's asking for money for. So, a bunch of questions standing here between the lines, are they worth in charge of some kind of prison? Well, that should be the subject of some borrowing strategy not just about amounts and interest, and where we need funds from abroad and where we don't need them. There are countries in the world that have said we do not want to be in charge of the social sphere, because you are setting us conditions that are not acceptable to us, but we want to be in charge, say, of prisons, because you get extremely favourable conditions, you are achieving some standards and goals that are in line with integration processes with Europe, and they are helping you. So, where there are good conditions, where otherwise we wouldn't have had the funds right away, that's what we can do. Finally, my comment on my going back to the post-application period, not because I'm selfish and I don't want to look at the previous period and write and answer all the questions, we usually answer all the questions, but because it's very important that from the moment we started, we measure what we did during that period. So it's not the beginning of the world, but it's the beginning, the new side, the new side in our fiscal policy-making, our budget-making and everything. Remember what it was like. We've decided that we're going to have to save in the first step on salaries and pensions. We didn't have any other place to start that momentum reform. Why? Because the costs of the operation were too small and too rigid, because the interest, which the foreign creditors are looking for, were untouchable, they would jump if we touched it, because the capital expenditures we didn't want to touch. So when we removed those three things, the only thing left was salaries and pensions. You ask the question – why? It's an extremely unpopular measure. You know that very well. So our assessment was to do an unpopular measure, as the doctor does an unpopular and difficult operation, because the alternative is worse and because it offers healing, exit. That's why we're doing it, and that's why I want you to evaluate it. Could we have done something different? We cut, remember, minimum and wages and pensions, and now we return as much space as possible and stay on the same path. So we haven't changed anything about it. Is there anything better we can do? There's a lot of things that can do better. Here, today we come back here, we talked today, we're done with the fund, and that part that's not very well known to the public, that the reforms remain unfinished. That's what we're talking about. We have some situations where we haven't improved enough yet, such as education reform, such as public administration reform and the public sector at all, but also as a reform of some public enterprises, and not just these big ones you all know about, but a bunch of small public enterprises that are not efficient, which are just used to doing business on some of their agreed economies at local level. It creates problems for us, first, that we don't see, and then when they appear as Smederjevska Palanka, as the Apothecary of Panchevo, then we see that we have a stone that we don't know how to put away, how to get out of the system. The point is, it's not on the word, it's not on trust, it's on budgeting that's going to be transparent, that we all know in advance, so where we have to intervene, not let it leak on all sides. You can't manage resources like that. So when we're looking for discipline, we're looking for it for ourselves as well as for everyone else. (Petar Jojic, from place: Eight hundred million. ) The system needs to resolve this.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5137	MP, there's no throwing away.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5138	Ours is to identify problems, start processes, and then the system will offer a solution to all these things. So I just want to say that we are now exactly two years from the start of reform, that we have until the end of this year, and now we are preparing a budget that will put in place, define the finals of the worst three years. The increase in wages and pensions that we have agreed, which we hold, will be a slight improvement for all people, as a reward, first of all, as an indication that we are on a good path and as a reward for all that we have suffered, all that we have done, but we need to know one thing. If we don't have the strength to close those places where we have big losses, then all this can leak. You know, like from that old story, you know, the bucket's bumpy. If the bucket remains flat, no one closes it, or no one pours enough water. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-01-0.u5139	Thank you, Minister. According to Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint single search on the draft laws referred to in points 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 of the agenda. The session will be held tomorrow at 10:00 p.m. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia this year. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find the session to be attended by 101 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the Members of Parliament to insert your cards into the MPs' units. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that 128 MPs are present in the O.R. and that we have conditions for continuing work. I would like to inform you that today the sittings are prevented from being attended by MPs Gordana Komic and Aleksandra Jerkov, as well as MP Balša Bozovic. We continue to work and move on to a joint single search on the proposals for decisions on points 9 and 10 of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that at the meeting today, Zoran Djordjevic, Defence Minister Nenad Neric, State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence, as well as General Major General Slavoljub Janijevic, are the deputy commander of the Joint Operations Command of Serbia's Army General Staff, Colonel Milivoje Pajovic, head of the Centre for Peace Operations of the Serbian Army and the captain of the battleship Milan Konjikovac, head of the International Military Co-operation Administration at the Ministry of Defence. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on the proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2016 and a proposal for a decision to adopt the Annual Plan of Use of the Army of Serbia and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2016. Does Defence Minister Zoran Djordjevic want a word? (Branka Stamenković, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
