ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3831	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 109 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please Members of the Parliament to insert your cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 92 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has a folk MP, Enis Imamovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3832	Thank you, Your Honor. Two weeks ago, we discussed the choice of judges here and indicated that the choice from the Bosniak aspect is unacceptable and that it causes direct damage to Bosniaks in the Republic of Serbia, as it further disrupts the unconformed national structure of the court's employees, especially the one in Novi Pazar. That's why we MPs of the SDA Sandzak and voted against this kind of election, and we called for that competition to be annulled and called for a new one. The same call also addressed the Bosniak national council as the most representative body of Bosniaks in the Republic of Serbia. However, the choice of judges was carried out and beyond these requirements by the legitimate representatives of Bosniaks. However, representatives of the New Market judiciary have not stopped at this. The NGO Forum 10 addressed the President of the Basic Court in Novi Pazar, Djordž Gojgic, where they asked him for information on the national structure of judges in the court. The President of the Court in his written response to an extremely unprofessional, rude and which is the worst and very threatening way to fit this NGO. In his reply, the president openly threatens all those who dare to open the issue of the representation of Bosniaks in that court, including us MPs, and me personally who spoke about this issue, calling us members of some organised international criminal groups and mercenaries who work for some organised international criminal groups. In this most controversial part of the written response, the President of the Court of Justice in Novi Pazar, Djordje Gojgic, calls for action, quotes: "Steps and actions to prevent the spread of unargumented and false claims that attempt to distort the reputation of the judiciary regarding this issue, which are most likely stemming from circles close to organised international crime, which claim by the criminal organisation over the persons who are on their payroll or are otherwise dependent on criminal organisations, bringing both professional and wider public in confusion," concluded the quote. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a classic example of institutional threats and intimidation. This is a scandal. So, we MPs, the Bosniak National Council, NGOs from Novi Pazar, the media, our prominent academic citizens, and also the European Commission and the OSCE, all of us who ask the question of the representation of Bosniaks in the judiciary and in the justice institutions in Sandzak, for the President of the Court of Justice, Djordje Gojgić, as he says - we belong to the circles of organised international crime. At a time when the European Commission criticises Serbia for lack of representation of Bosniaks in the judiciary, at a time when it criticises the lack of judicial reform in the EU accession process, the president of the court in Novi Pazar poses such threats to all of us who dare to mention Bosniaks' representation in the court in Novi Pazar. And when we do dare and ask, I wonder if we or members of our families will suffer any consequences after his revenge. I ask Justice Minister Nela Kuburovic, has she been informed of these statements by the President of the Court in Novi Pazar and is he behind these words? If the minister is not behind these words, I ask that he immediately initiate the procedure for his shift, because with such behaviour, Djordje Gojgic has lost any legitimacy to judge Bosniaks in Sandzak and in general to perform any function in the judicial institutions in this city. I'm asking the Republic Attorney for Organised Crime, what did he do about the court's stated claims? I'm asking them to conduct an investigation and tell us if there are such organizations, if there are such lists and who are the persons on those lists? In the end, I want to conclude that, with this judiciary, in two days, we mark October 22nd or 24 years since the abduction, torture and murder of Bosniaks in the North.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3833	Thank you, you've wasted your time, thank you. It's not a question, it's an influence on the judicial authorities. The word has a national MP, Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3834	I thank the president. Croatian lawmakers in the European Parliament will present another resolution of BiH these days asking European parliamentarians to make a statement on a referendum that Republika Srpska conducted and concerning the celebration of Republika Srpska's day. He will allegedly demand that secessionist policies led by Republika Srpska be condemned. One of the provisions of this resolution will also be the change of the Dayton Agreement, arguing that the Republika Srpska political abuses the Dayton Agreement, and the resolution will require the international community to launch post-day talks on Bosnia and Herzegovina's new arrangement. It is certainly about launching another resolution aimed at completely unjustly condemning Republika Srpska for secessionist collapse of BiH institutions. My question was addressed to Foreign Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Ivica Dacic – what the state of Serbia will do about it, as Serbia is one of the signatories of the Dayton Agreement. Also, this is another initiative that does not contribute to calming tensions in the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3835	Thank you. The word has Marinika Tepic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3836	I thank the president. I have one question I would like to raise on behalf of you, I would say very upset citizens of South Banat, especially from the territory of Alibunara, Vladimirovac, the White Church and Panchev. It is related to the launch of geological explorations of oil and gas in the area of a protected natural good Deliblat pedestrian. The deliblatic pedestrian is a unique natural good in the territory of the whole of Europe and what we have as information in recent days is that NIS workers are intensively starting to explore the territory of the Deliblate Cavers in search of oil and gas. In that sense, I don't know if I've come up with the right information, which is why I'm asking the question, I want the exact answer from the ministries that are the legal heirs of other ministries from 2013. I assume the Ministry of Energy and the other ministry in charge of spatial planning, to deliver a solution number 310-02-693/2013-01 from 26 June 2013, when one of these ministries or both gave consent to the NIS to continue its geological research on oil and gas in the area of the Deliblat Cave, i.e. the entire Southern Banat, until 31 December 2020. Since we are deeply convinced and my littleness and all my fellow citizens from South Banat that NIS is not in the intention of conducting this kind of research out of love for research, but because of potential exploitation, which by nature of things is a natural continuation of research, we want to know - what about our natural good, unique in Europe, especially the ecological oasis of Pančevci due to long-term, decades-old pollution? Are we about to meet the wells and the oil pumps in the middle of the Deliblat cave? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3837	Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3838	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is addressed to the Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic, since today he seems to be the only address from which we can expect an answer, if of course he is not overly angry. At the beginning of this week, we received news that Serbia is the first in Europe, but not in the growth of gross national income, not by reducing deficits, not by any good, but by the number of people in Serbia who are at risk of poverty. So 25.4% of Serbian citizens are at risk of poverty this year, according to a survey conducted by the Republic Statistics Institute. That's why we're the first in Europe. My question is to the Prime Minister – what will the government do to change this situation? This state is getting worse every year. Four years ago, that percentage was 12.8. He has doubled for four years under all governments that the Serbian Progressive Party has formed with its coalition partners. Will the government finally arrange something instead of arguing with citizens, calling them sloths, incompetents, haters, just because they want to live honestly, with dignity from their work in this country? Is he finally gonna do something about amending the Family Support Act with the kids? If we look at this data, 35% of families with three and more children are at risk today from poverty. Whether the government will do something for single parents, because families of single parents today live 35.4% of them in danger of slipping into what statistics say poverty. Will the government do anything to prevent, we can now say freely, an exodus of Serbian citizens because the number of citizens leaving the Republic of Serbia year after year is doubled in search of a better life, for a dignified life? The data's here. Even this false statistic that the government is trying to paint into a pink life in Serbia can't change that, and I think it's high time for some measures. We will conclude for the first month of the work of this Assembly that we have not passed any laws and debated any law affecting the better lives of citizens. We are making decisions on a new task at the next session and there is no debate here in parliament that citizens will live better. What we expect from the government is that at the latest when the 2017 budget is passed to come here with a strategy to combat poverty, with a strategy and a clear plan to increase the employment of young people. Defeating data is that 40% of families with small children today in Serbia cannot existential needs themselves to provide these families, but rely on the help of parents and families. In such a situation, we cannot expect to reverse the rate of negative growth that has existed in Serbia for decades. Without a government plan, that's not gonna happen. Our question today is to the prime minister – will he and when come with clear plans that this budget surplus he firmly believes exists to turn into some concrete measures to improve the lives of Serbian citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3839	Srjan Nogo.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3840	I have a question for Justice Minister Ms. Nelu Kuburovic. I want to get information – why does the Ministry of Justice refuse to carry out the procedure for the resolution of the court expert Mirjana Labovic from the University of Art, and the procedure for resolution has been initiated because of doubts about her expertise, i.e. that she has forged a degree in the Faculty of Economics of the University of Pristina? At the same time, I would ask the Minister of Education to tell us that he also delivers this information to the Ministry of Justice, which is obviously not only able to obtain that information, although in earlier cases he obtained data from other state authorities without a problem – did he ever have a name in the SFRJ or SRJ University in Pristina – the University of Kosovo in Pristina? As for Mirjana Labovic, I would like to ask a question to the Government of the Republic of Serbia – what has she done about the Commissioner's request for information of public importance, i.e. for his solution to the City Office of Arts to provide information in which cases the court expert mentioned Mirjana Labovic? The City Institute has already been punished with 400,000 dinars, and there are over 80 new requests for the same information, so the City Institute of Art will probably become a recordr and be punished even more than "Srbigas" and "Telecom" who were formerly recordrs together. Who is so powerful as to protect the aforementioned court expert Mirjana Labovic, and what are the items in which she has skilled and who is so afraid? That's a very interesting question. As for the judicial experts who are an extremely painful point and also one of the major problems of the judiciary, I would like to ask the Ministry of Justice – did it decide in the retrial on the motion to resolve the court's artist, Anica Bajic, who was enrolled in the court register as a judicial expert in the field of geography, and was deleted by Minister Nikola Selakovic's 2013 solution? Namely, it was enrolled on the basis of a degree in alleged criminal school found not to have any accreditation for work as a school institution, nor as a company, nor as an entrepreneur. The administrative court recently respected Anica Bajic's appeal and annulled the justice minister's solution, so it is now back at the justice ministry to decide on the procedure. What's interesting about that solution? Let's see how our court experts are. In a complaint, Anica Bajic stated that there is no special school for her area, but that they can artificially endowed individuals, so now listen to the interestingness, something like a divers who have no formal qualifications for it, but have a natural gift. Very interesting. We've got another case. As long as the Justice Ministry has arrived with a decision-making process on the proposal to resolve court expert Miodrag Petrovic from the office of judicial expert in the field of machine engineering. The request was filed six months ago. That expert doesn't have a high level of expertise from a given area. Otherwise, the man is known when he attacked a photographer and journalist "Evening News". That was in "Evening News". At the same time, he is a court expert in economics, machine technology and is a bankruptcy manager. The man graduated from the Higher Engineering School, and after two years he enrolled in the private Faculty of Economics where he also graduated from his master's studies. How is it possible for him to be admitted exams from a multi-machine school at the Faculty of Economics? That's what the Minister of Education could tell us. I would like to ask Minister Vulina – is tomorrow's payment of personal disability, as well as the families who receive it under the Law on Combating and Disabilities of War Disabilities and the families of the dead to be reduced by 2.8%, and if that is correct on the basis of what this reduction was done? For the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, I would like them to tell us in view of the situation in the White Church where for months back the company "Eko 21" d.o.o. warehouses and destroys toxic waste, who is responsible for the ecological disaster in the White Church, where did toxic waste come from in that amount? It's hundreds of tons. On whose orders did the circuit inspector cover up the whole case for months, and is it true that the toxic waste was transported to Novi Sad and is now poisoning citizens? If that's true, where is he? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3841	The word is Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3842	I thank the president. My question was addressed to the Minister of Industry. I have already asked Mr Sertic about this subject once, however, he answered me in a way that is not satisfactory, so I will ask again the question, now the new minister, believing that he may have more understanding of this problem. I also call on the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic to look to the left when they come to this event on Saturday, which is being staged by the mayor of Novi Sad, which includes a lot of military equipment, to look to the left when they enter Novi Sad, which is what they will see. The North 4th zone, into which Novi Sad has invested four billion dinars so far. In that place, they say, there will be a factory that, apart from these 40m euros from the town of Novi Sad, has received another 10m euros from the Republic of Serbia to hire workers for 21,000 dinars, and if the town of Novi Sad doesn't finish this facility until today, so says Annex II of the contract signed by the City Building Institute on 4 October 2016, it will pay 20,000 euros of foam every day to the company, Madam President, too. So, when the first day is over, Novi Sad will give the company 20,000 euros, the second day 40,000, the third 60,000, etc., and that is all the money the citizens of Novi Sad will pay thanks to the wonderful business that the Mayor of Novi Sad has made inability to attract real investments, so he bought little investment to the citizens of Novi Sad. This contract has changed several times so far, we've had several contract annexes, each time it seemed so that the costs of the city of Novi Sad are increasing. Because of this project Novi Sad has given up many other projects he has planned. It reduces social giving, abandons the asphalting of certain streets, has given up solving the waiting list in New Sad kindergartens, and every time the City Assembly verified the new Annex contract, it contained new obligations for the city of Novi Sad. Not to be that this company is so black, here's one lucky piece of information, they made a deal with a taxi company from Novi Sad, that when workers pass out, because they often fall unconscious, because 12 hours stand behind the tape, that taxi company takes them free of charge to the hospital, so it's not about someone who doesn't appreciate the rights of the workers. My question now is the new minister, since here, I admit, I cannot understand what the cost of this job is to try to explain to me again, as citizens of Novi Sad, here, not as MPs, in which way the investment in which Novi Sad is investing 40m euros, the Republic of Serbia 10m euros, through which in 10 years' time, it says in the contract, will return 10m euros to Novi Sad. So it's an investment thanks to which the city of Novi Sad will be at zero in 40 years. How is this investment good for the city of Novi Sad? And let him also explain to the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic when they go to Novi Sad and on Saturday to look at that building and see what the citizens of Novi Sad will cost 20,000 euros every day. Is there a responsibility for this hall not being completed? Is there a possibility that whoever was supposed to end the salary of that penale, not the town of Novi Sad, or is this a job where absolutely all private partners make money and pay only the citizens of Novi Sad? I think that's what all MPs, including all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are interested in, because that's the way investment comes into this country. They come, they buy, and they buy with citizens' money.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3843	Thank you. Just tell me who the question is. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the post: Minister of Economy. Yes, Minister of Economy, I didn't really understand. I heard the word of the event, so I asked what's going on in Novi Sad on Saturday, because of the citizens of Serbia, I'm not saying this because of someone who's going to say a pesorative thing, a military parade about the release of the day of the city of Novi Sad. So that's not a show. Dear MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome in your and my name the students of the University of Belgrade who are following this part of today's session from the grand hall gallery. Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3844	Today I'm going to ask a few questions to the various representatives of the government, and about the various scandals that are happening every day in our country. The first question was addressed to the minister of education, and it concerns the scandal over the change in the name of the school in Dojevici, which has so far been called "St. Sava" in the future will be called "Halife bin Zaid Al Nahjan". Who, and when in the name of the Ministry of Education, agreed to rename the “St. Sava” school in Dojevići to “Halife bin Zaid Al Nahjan”? Is it true that personally the prime minister suggested that the St. Sava school be renamed to this famous donor and according to the Prime Minister? What did the Caliph say deserved the school to be named after him? Is he some famous scientist, poet, writer, someone who stamped education, enlightenment, or is he just a man with a lot of money? If this is different, does that mean that any tycoon that has money can make money and ask for the name of an institution to be named after him? Or God forbid some dictator, and unfortunately around the world, he can get the name of a school this way. The second question was addressed to the Minister of Sports. What did he do about the shameful treasonous move of Serbian volleyballist Nenad Golianin, who was abstained at a recent World volleyball Federation meeting over Kosovo's admission while, for example, the Spanish were against it? Did he give him instructions before the session on how to behave and how to vote? If he didn't, why didn't he, and if he did, then is this the official position of the government? If it isn't the official position of the government why the minister and the government haven't called so far and why they haven't initiated a procedure for the shift of this man to whom it really isn't worth mentioning his name. The third question is addressed to the Prime Minister, how long will Serbia make concessions in negotiations with Kosovo, and how long will Kosovo and Metohija give up their territory? It sounds amazing that only ten days have passed since the institutions of the fake state of Kosovo have passed a law that attempts to kidnap "Trepce", and the director of the Office for Kosovo and Metohija, Marko Đuric, after that act, happily came out and promised publicly, swore that he would never be able to accept it and that he would withdraw rather than participate in the shameful betrayal act. But yesterday we see that Marko Djuric continues negotiations in Brussels as if nothing had happened. To make things worse, the Prime Minister declares that Serbia wants to reach further agreements and that he personally asked Mark Djuric to do anything wherever possible in translation to give in and help create a new state a little more. We ask the question, "How long will Serbia give way?" The previous regime was accepted by Eulex, that wasn't enough. The issue moved from the United Nations to the EU was not enough. The regime accepted the right framework for Kosovo, organised local elections under Kosovo rather than Serbian laws, disbanded local self-government in the north, abolished courts, handed over a cadastre, accepted their ID cards and plates, and that is not enough. Now property is being hijacked, Serbia is continuing to rush into these negotiations and is looking for a way to help Kosovo get an invitation number. Is there an end to giving in? The fourth question, also for Prime Minister Vukic and Energy Minister, what is the value of property and estimated mining wealth in Kosovo and Metohija? Since we keep getting insults that they're all ignorant and they have no idea what they're talking about, and since he's all-knowing, we're asking him to answer us what that property is. According to a 2003 World Bank study, the value of the mine potential in Kosovo is around 13 and a half billion euros and the share of the Trepce mine is over three billion. Ljubodrag Savic, a professor of economic college, calculated that Serbian state enterprises in Kosovo have 1,350 facilities, worth over five billion euros. I ask the fifth question to the president of the National Assembly, to you, Mrs Gojkovic, when will you finally schedule a thematic session on whose agenda will Kosovo and Metohija be? To remind you, the DSS parliamentary group has asked for a thematic session on Kosovo to be held on 11 August.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3845	Thanks, time. Thank you. I'll let you know. The word has Vladimir Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3846	The President-in-Office, honourable fellow MPs, my first question, our first question was addressed to Mr Branislav Nedimovic, Minister of Agriculture and Minister of State Administration and local self-government Mrs Ani Brnabic. Do the Republic of Serbia, the AP Vojvodina and local self-government own accurate agricultural land records at all levels of the administration and are these records publicly available and where? Does these records contain data on how much agricultural land has been issued, to whom and at what prices, and to all the catastrian municipalities, parcels and classes of agricultural land? How much agricultural land has not been leased, and why, according to the plans of local self-government? How much agricultural land is usurped? Who are the usurpers and what plots? Who, according to the authorities, is currently the largest agricultural land usurper in the Republic of Serbia? What plots are we talking about, and what is done to end this particular known usurpation? The former agriculture and environmental minister, a year ago, so in November of last year, said that local self-government, some 330,000 hectares of state-owned countries do not offer at all to rent through their annual programmes, and that of what enters and is offered, some 240,000 hectares remain undisclosed. This total represents about 570,000 hectares of unissued land. The minister herself then said that as many as 600,000 hectares remain unissued. If the average price of the lease, also cited by the minister at the time, is about 189 euros per hectare, it is said that the budget damage is more than 120m euros. Since it is known that in Serbia, the market price of the country's lease exceeds 500 euros per hectare, it can be estimated that the potential budget damage is around 200m euros a year, and this problem does not last for one year, but lasts for years. In an effort to solve the problem of land usurpation in March this year, the government adopted a regulation, which practically met usurperers for this season. They were offered to apply themselves and to legalise usurp through extrajudicial alignment. According to Mayor Panchev, six out of nine thousand hectares that were usurped in the Pancheva municipality's territory were agreed through an extra-judicial settlement at a price of 190 euros per hectare per hectare. In the municipality of Zrenjanin, the Serbian Orthodox Church leased the country from the restitution at a price of 520 euros per hectare. If this usurped country had been offered bids and the same price had been reached, the budget would have been richer by less than two million euros. We consider this issue extremely important because we want to remove suspicions that the country is deliberately not taking part in auctions through annual programmes, so as to grant usurpation too quietly. I'll remind you that in time on N1 TV, a video came out where a local official of the ruling party from the Apache was recorded on the phone suggesting that in the pub, the paors would freely enter the atmosphere and usurp the fields, and if the farmers were to ask anything, they would freely refer to it. So these are serious things that have to be solved. Another question that we refer to the Minister of Economy and ask him to tell us – what brilliant economic logic is behind the planned subsidy to the British IT company "Endava" worth 4.4m euros? According to information, the Council for Economic Development has already made such a decision. We're looking for information on whether the government has already approved that subsidy and we're looking for a written way to get that information. By investment law, incentive funds are approved for the creation of new jobs. This subsidy will not contribute to the creation of new jobs, because it is about subsidising the IT sector, which is already missing, according to the Economic Institute, even 30,000 trained personnel. Domestic companies and IT entrepreneurs will, by their taxes and contributions practically through the announced subsidy, actually co-finance the growth of their own competition, which will thus be brought into a favoured position to attract and employ otherwise deficited professionals in this area who have been trained for years by these domestic IT experts and these domestic IT companies. This is how the government favours foreign competition on the domestic market. We are particularly opposed to this subsidy because it is a company that showed ten million pounds of profits last year, with 63 million pounds of income and a profit growth of over 90%. Of course, this company, like any other, came well, but under equal conditions, without favoring by the government. The third issue concerns the military parade envisioned for Novi Sad for Saturday, when our city will also be visited by the prime minister. We are interested – exactly how much will the military parade in Novi Sad cost, and are the preparations for the military parade responsible for the unbearable smell of crude oil that was burned all over Novi Sad yesterday afternoon and all night?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3847	Thank you. I'm glad you're looking forward to liberating the city of Novi Sad. The word is Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3848	I thank you, President. I'm asking the Secretary of State for Traffic, Mrs. Zorana. Given the fact that recently, therefore, several days ago, we supported, which was extremely affirmative and state-owned, an agreement reached with Azerbaijan, with the aim of raising and revitalising the road network, raising the capacity of the road infrastructure, especially when it comes to highways. In this direction, the citizens of the Zlatibor district question, when is the highway to the Adriatic government and the resolution ministry related to this area? For what? There are several options to travel the highway to the Adriatic, given that it is undeniable that this route is going to Požega. From Požega to Bolara, as the point from which the highway to the Adriatic continues, there are more options. One of the options, in any case, should be in the phase of consideration, and after the phase of consideration, by the deep conviction of the citizens of the Zlatibor district, and the final decision to move the route further through Užic, i.e. Pussy, and further towards Bolaras. For what? Because this route has, in any case, an economically acceptable solution, that is to say, a more acceptable economic solution for the simple reason that the cost of construction is significantly reduced, which reduces significantly the relation when it comes to the length of that route and is even about 40 kilometers away. Other comparative advantages, which in any case entail thinking and suggest that this is exactly the right solution, is the fact that the Zlatibor County may in some way be devastated, given the fact that the significant tourist potentials associated with tourist destinations such as Zlatibor, Tara, Wekre Gora and other undoubtedly significant tourist resorts can only be further stimulated in the direction of providing more quality tourist services. The second comparative advantage is undoubtedly the existence of a Ponikva airport, in which the government invested significant funds to train it into a regular air traffic function, and even with a tendency to continue to perfect and bring it to a level where cargo flights can be conducted through that airport, no doubt with a tendency to invest cash even around 2.4m euros, so that Airbus planes can also maneuver, or land at that airport. Incomparably more significant for the government of the Republic of Serbia, for the state, if it were for Serbia, this airport could also have communication with the highway passing exactly the route we point to. Given all these facts, it is no doubt that this area deserves attention when it comes to infrastructure. Of course, the government has recognised what is significant for the Zlatibor district, which is that the road network, when it comes to highways, will be revitalised, or that it will be routed in some other directions, such as the direction towards Republika Srpska, or Visegrad. However, that direction is the direction that bypasses some municipalities in any case that require the attention of the government of the Republic of Serbia, such as Nova Varoš, such as Prijeboj, such as Prijepolje, such as places that gravity towards Montenegro, where in any case the highway route should continue. Given that undeveloped municipalities are involved, given that the municipalities that require significant investment, in which an economic renaissance is needed in order to get out of a huge fiasco, mostly an economic fiasco, in terms of the lack of economic potential they once had, I think the solution that is currently being referred to best through this issue. Finally, this issue deserves attention and considerable time back, so I believe that by answering the citizens of the Zlatibor district to this issue, especially in a positive way, it would get much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3849	Thank you. The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3850	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to point out the question to the Presidential College of the National Assembly, or to the College, which is probably an official name, because on Tuesday at a meeting of the SRS parliamentary club, we decided to launch an initiative before the party's presidential college, to decide that all of our representatives should leave the Assembly committees, delegations and groups of friendships, because they did not respect the basic parliamentary principles in the establishment of these bodies, the principles that have been built here for two and a half decades, which was not a consultation among the heads of parliamentary groups and which is not an apothecaral scale proportionate representation of various parliamentary parties. We don't think it's too late for these things to be fixed. So I ask this question, so we don't just say it at once – we won't do it anymore and we won't. Of all the collective bodies of the National Assembly, only the College was established on that principle. So the president of the assembly is from the biggest party, and the vice presidents are from almost all opposition parties, even the one who gave up. It was agreed to be represented in the vice president's seat, but she gave it up herself. (Saša Radulovic, from the post: She did not give up. Well, you didn't want to vote. I don't know if you are or not. It was agreed that everyone voted for a final solution. Whoever gave up the final solution gave up his participation. That's not the point here right now. (Sasa Radulovic, from the place: Well, don't mention it. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3851	Don't throw away the speaker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3852	That is why we believe that new meetings of the National Assembly College with the heads of Parliament should be held, to consider the issue. We don't want to leave these committees and delegations and groups of friendships. To be clear, we want to stay. Our representative will remain vice-president of the National Assembly, because it is a respected principle, but if nothing will change, the SRS must take care of its party dignities and say that it will not suffer that it is excluded from all combinations of governing bodies, assembly committees, delegations and groups of friendships, especially because in some sessions it is constitutional in such a brutal way that the self-will of the strongest political parties is carried out, which is when in every protest or remark many MPs from the ruling coalition react in a brutal way. They even called us monkeys somewhere and said we were brought here to play monkeys. Well, well, if monkeys are brought into the National Assembly, then you must give them all the rights of the MPs. Then you have to be equal with those monkeys, or you bring them in. There were Roman dictators who declared horses to be senators, but according to these horses, everyone else had to treat the senators with great respect. If you're all-powerful, if you can make any decisions, you can bring monkeys into the congregation and we don't argue with you, but then respect those monkeys you brought there and realize that you have to be equal with them, in everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3853	Thank you. I sincerely hope that you will not leave, a parliamentary group, no committee, no other, and that dialogue can safely lead to a solution, only a little will. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Well, I expect a written answer. I don't have a written answer. I don't know exactly what this is about. Someone says the MP's group of friendships with the Russian Federation, someone like this, someone like that. We'll sit down and talk, see what's the specific problem, and try to solve it. I'm willing to have a dialogue with everyone. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: The group of friendships with the Russian Federation was for us a drop that spilled a glass. I understand. Okay, then we'll talk, see what we can do, but I really ask the parliamentary groups not to leave their committees, because the committees paint a picture of Parliament. (Saša Radulovic, from town: Replica. ) There is no replica to asking questions. Rules of Procedure, here you go, take a look. (Saša Radulovic, from place: There is 104.) No, there's no 104. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3854	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Republic of Serbia has conducted a robbery privatisation under the former regime's parties. Some modern - day MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia participated in these distraught actions. Among them is Sasa Radulovic, leader of the DJB movement. In 2011, Radulović, as the bankruptcy manager of the construction company "New Highway" was worth a million...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3855	Excuse me, MP, just tell me who the question is.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3856	The D.A. and the D.A.'s office.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3857	So, the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3858	That's right. So, a million-dollar accounting job to the company Business Service registered to his wife, where Mr. Radulovic was co-owner. Due to this conflict of interest, the Agency for the Licensing of Bank Managers punished him with 100,000 dinars, and the Commercial Court in Belgrade two months later resolved the duties of the bankruptcy manager "New Highway". When he became minister, Sasa Radulovic never gave up the position of bankruptcy director in as many as 14 firms. This shows his attitude towards the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the state of Serbia. Radulovic paid the money from the bankruptcy mass to whom he wanted, without the court's consent and without the state's consent. Sasa Radulovic, as a bankruptcy manager, was conducting bankruptcy proceedings, and so from companies entrusted to him in the management of the kidnapping, believe it or not, 50 million dinars. The average fee per bankruptcy procedure was 100,000 dinars per month, and Radulovic received 495 monthly fees as a bankruptcy manager. By simple calculation, we come up with a sum of 50 million dinars, which Radulovic put in his pocket. Since 2007, he has conducted 15 bankruptcy proceedings, of which only two have been completed. It took him 20 days to get these jobs, and he didn't have enough for 10 months. Radulovic was paid for 495 months of applications. In time, the press published its illegal activities, so here's just some: 13. 04. 2011 title – Sasa Radulović, bankruptcy manager in 14 companies, receives a monthly 2.1 million dinars; 14. 04. In 2011, police filed criminal charges against Sasa Radulovic; 16. 04. 2011 in a list of titles – When the company "Dimitrija Tucović" fell into the hands of the bankruptcy manager Sasa Radulovic, workers were expelled and companies were robbed; 25. 04. In 2011, Sasa Radulovic, the bankruptcy manager "Delta Legala", wants to rob already debilitated apartment buyers, asking to pay 4.2m euros to complete the facility; 27. 04. 2011 one paper published the title – One paper caught the bankruptcy phantom Sasa Radulovic; 31. 05. In 2011, the paper publishes – Radulovic, the noise, how many millions you stole. Dear ladies and gentlemen, here's how Sasa Radulovic fought against the partocracies and the Burazer-Kumic Politocracy, because it was the main pre-election slogan of his "drive van". He has appointed his best man as the bankruptcy manager of the BIP. On the election list for Vračar Municipality, he placed two godmothers with his wives. This is how Ivan Kljajic and his wife Oliver Kljajic, the godmother Ivan Kljajic, the godmother Milenko Petronijevic and his wife Dragan Petronijevic Babic, Srecko Babic and his wife, Dunje. Ladies and gentlemen, Sasa Radulovic has avoided paying the US taxes of $1 million and zero six million and thus disgraced this high house because it is unimaginable for one MP. Here, I own a six-year-old document. Ten. In 2016, with a debt of one zero six million dollars. If he has any MP morals, I invite him to resign. This document is also owned by his party, which is why he is asked to resign. Finally, I ask the parliamentary question of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior – are there elements of the crime in the bankruptcy of Sasa Radulovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3859	Thank you. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the session... (National MP Sasa Radulovica tapse. What's the problem, MP? (Saša Radulovic, from the place: I approve. The apostle has the right to ask each minister. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: We will use this right. Yes, we heard in the previous address. I ask MPs from the parliamentary group who are making it impossible for us to work, to be parliamentary and to have a dose of tolerance for the majority who want to be informed in the manner envisaged by the Rules of Procedure. So I'm asking for a dose of democratic tolerance. Since I was interrupted, let me say which letter was respected by the Rules of Procedure and announced its absence, which is Milena Corilić. So, a letter that respects the Rules of Procedure in every segment, not just the one she likes. We're continuing our work. We're moving on to a search in detail. Point 4 – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that they have been invited to attend today's session: Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development Mladen Sarcevic and his associates. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received reports from the competent committees and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go. First I ask the Proposer if he wants a word? (No)
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3860	Thank you. Dear President, Mr Minister, fellow MPs, the most amendments were made to this first member. Somehow, miraculously, the amendment of the head of the largest parliamentary group was accepted, although other amendments were almost identical, so I am not sure how much the amendment came from that side was not crucial to accepting this amendment. What is interesting, when amendments like this two years ago were proposed to the Assembly, your predecessor, Mr. Minister, refused to accept these amendments. So, as early as 2014, MPs proposed that the deadline for doctoral and master's studies be extended to school 2017/2018. years and then it was rejected, and here, today it's accepted. I'd like to hear an argument as to why that is. I am particularly interested in the argument to accept the extension of the deadline for master's studies, because it was then said that, since the master's studies since the adoption of the new law will no longer be signed on by the old programmes, so, since the two school years, 2005 and 2006, this was no longer possible, they were not able to enroll in the master's studies and therefore did not extend the deadline, so at least the minister explained why there was no need to extend anymore. You're extending it with this amendment. As we said in the principle debate, we're not against it, but we'd like to hear the numbers. The numbers, Mr. Minister, how many people are concerned, how many people are now going to be able to finish by extending this deadline of doctoral studies, and how many master's and how many of them have, for example, taken advantage of the deadline from the last extension to today, so we know what we're discussing here? Is this about a few dozen cases, hundreds, thousands of people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3861	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3862	Ladies and gentlemen, it is really interesting that this amendment and actually the existence, the acceptance of this amendment and the existence of other amendments with the same text says that we were right when we said that this law, which has already changed several times from year to year, actually means that it is necessary to adopt it, and the minister agreed with it, a comprehensive solution and that this law is fundamentally changed, but it seems that these changes have also been brought somehow without serious analysis by the Ministry and the Government. If that were not the case, then the government's proposal would be fully incorporated with these views that have been accepted in the amendment and against which the government's representative now has no objection. For the sake of the public, it is necessary to say a few words in order to actually notice the work of opposition MPs in the National Assembly. Almost all parliamentary groups, I know about the SRS, have submitted an amendment that is identical with the amendment by Aleksandr Martinovic, who has been accepted and, of course, we cannot say that we do not accept the amendment when we have submitted the same. But at the very least, it is incorrect that only this amendment should be accepted, and that the Government for the other amendments, the same, says - they are not accepted for the reason that the amendment of Aleksandra Martinovic was accepted. Mr. Minister, it would have been nice if you had written, well you chose to adopt the amendment of Alexander Martinovic, and I can accept it, you could have adopted the amendment of Mark Milenkovic from the SNS, the same amendment, but it was in the government's explanation, you didn't have to discuss all these amendments and write these arguments, but you should have said, since we can only adopt one amendment with the same text, we have defined ourselves to choose and accept the amendment of Aleksandr Martinović, but we could also adopt the amendment of Mark Milenkovic and other MPs who have submitted the same amendment. I really wanted, first of all for the public, because we're in politics, we're MPs here we represent the people, some people who chose all of us here, today can't wait to hear whether his deadline for the completion of master's, or regular and then master's doctoral and study will be extended. We really want to tell the voters we from the SRS have advocated it and we have even submitted the amendment, so someone will read somewhere that our amendment has not been adopted, and it could have been, because it is exactly the same as the amendment of counterpart Martinovic who was adopted. There's something else about Article 1. Mr. Minister, if only this amendment is adopted like this, you will have a law that will have members of the college within the law. Here it is necessary to do, we wanted an amendment to intervene, but unfortunately since this is a very restrictive Rules of Procedure, we did not have the opportunity to submit an amendment to a member that you did not include in your proposal. This is a bad solution, but it is such, but it is possible to do a legal technical order, and I propose to the President of Parliament to make a short break, that the Legislative Committee should withdraw and make a legal technical order in the sense that it is said that by adopting this amendment, which is obviously not controversial, it ceases to be an independent member of the 32nd, in brackets of the C2 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the 2010 Law on Higher Education. If this independent member remains, and this is adopted today, then we will have a collapsing and a factually inapplicable law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3863	The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law and Truth has been held, MP Martinovic submitted this amendment on October 10th at 15.27 p.m., MP Marko Milenkovic on October 18th at 9.20 p.m., and the first amendment was discussed after submission. The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3864	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, during the principle debate two days ago here in the National Assembly, LSV MPs persistently drew attention and criticised one incredible relationship between the proponents of this legislative intervention, which is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the authorised person here in the image of Mr. Minister, by being absolutely inappropriate and inappropriately discriminated against by one part of the student population. The Government did not allow through its proposal to extend the period of study and graduates, i.e. magistrates and doctors of the Pre-Bolon period. We've been distracting all day, the minister rarely advertised, as I said then, mostly defending himself with silence, and in his even more rare address to the MPs, he mostly hid behind the National Council for Higher Education.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3865	Please be kind, please, about the amendment, we have a strict amendment text and we are not opening a general debate, it's over. It's strictly about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3866	Of course, I'll be there in two sentences. I'll come to the amendment. I'm just making a connection to the amendment as it happens. Of course, I'll appreciate your suggestion. What happened in the meantime is that the government addressed the MPs with a proposal to accept the amendment of the MP, which is a good signal for us, because simply, we must note that the MPs of the majority, I suppose, are also seeking to rescue their minister from condemning that, on the first job in the area of higher education, he stood behind the discriminatory proposal and defended him, I say less, more successfully. But what I'm more interested in is, in this I'd say "smart" with the help of the MPs, what did the minister at the cabinet's session say as an explanation to change that decision? We have seen here, as we have heard from previous colleagues, a number of amendments have been treated as equivalent to the amendment of counterpart Aleksandr Martinovic, rejected for this very reason, and then on page two, the amendment is accepted by Mr Martinovic for the reasons mentioned in the explanation of the amendment. There's no explanation for that. I've listed on several occasions, and what we've received as congregation material has no explanation at all why this amendment is accepted. So I would like to hear that argument, and I would especially like to ask Mr. Minister to engage in the discussion and explain to us in what way, because I assume that at the cabinet session he initiated, explained and supported such an amendment intervention at the end. How did he defend it at the government meeting now, how did the government come to adopt this amendment, and that didn't happen many days earlier when she made a different proposal? I want to hear from Mr. Minister what he has now cited as his reasons, since two days ago he says he can't do anything about it and that only the state of counseling of the advisory body, and I'd like to hear those amendments, because this sentence in the explanation doesn't mean much. I can't say it doesn't mean anything, but between that nothing and actually little, there's no content in the explanation that we got. We didn't get an explanation, it doesn't exist. I'd like to hear from the minister exactly how he defended this amendment that he couldn't at first put into an integrated proposal for legal intervention, that is, change, and now he could do it and now he can represent something like that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3867	Thank you. So the government has accepted this amendment and the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal, and MPs will not vote separately on the amendment. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3868	Dear President, let me say that I am very glad that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has accepted this amendment by Professor Dr Alexander Martinovic. I'm talking to you as a man who's been involved in the action since the last session and led many meetings with all the students, from all the universities. My smallness this summer didn't go on vacation, I wanted to help those students. What is not clear to many, even to the MPs, is the category of students who studied before Bologna, so to speak under quotes, old curricula and program. This is very important, you who are engaged in education and education and who have a lack of training and education from 1946 to today, the former Yugoslavia, not to say the former authorities of the Republic of Serbia whenever reforms were implemented and new laws were passed, we allowed students who studied according to the former curricula and the programme to complete their studies. That's what this is about, we had a little misunderstanding on the board about it. So, I'm very glad that it came to this because it's a lot of good students, it sounds a little weird to you, when I say, about good students, and they're not done in time. They have their own fates economically, not to say emotionally and otherwise, but they weren't in a position to complete those studies in time. We, when we allowed, restricted for the first time, were then Minister Jovanovic, we were aware that there would be an extension, although at that time we suggested that we leave the law alone, that they end up, but wanted to speed them up a little bit. So, by reviewing the indexes, and I've examined them very much, believe me, it's about good students and someone asked from the MPs what number it is, and here, I'll tell you – 22,000 back two years, it ended 12,000. Twelve thousand in two years we have saved experts who work today in Serbian businesses and across Europe and beyond, thank God. So we have about a number, but not all the signatures were given, but another 12,000 is about there. So maybe there's something less, maybe even more. There's no reason to stop it. I'll just tell the students we'll probably vote today or tomorrow and extend them to the old teaching program, and that goes to the doctores. Why did this amendment occur? We must be aware that we have the National Council for Higher Education, gentlemen, which we have chosen here. He has his position and Minister Sarcevic respected the position, and in the National Council, representatives of many colleges that looked at economic interest, financial interest, so the colleges and it is true, and that is what MPs said, let's say, set high quotas for their re-entry or possibly a continuation of further education, etc. So, the minister respected the National Council for Higher Education, but we're changing the law and we're giving amendments and we were just aware from the beginning that this situation is going to come to an end and I think there's nothing wrong with it. On the contrary, I as a professor who works with students, this is one of the most beautiful days of my life today, because I know it's about students who are in a very difficult economic situation, working and studying, and we're propagating lifelong education and education, which is about students from economically less developed areas, I've also done this analysis, about students who have had their own personal tragedies, from wartime, etc., just to say that I appeal to everyone no matter who has set up an amendment to vote to extend them both to students in basic studies and doctors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3869	We have to delete the list. Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3870	Thank you. He was injured, or no article 106 was applied in relation to Article 27. You have rightly warned, taking care of the session order, that Marinika Tepic's MP should stick to the agenda, that this is a debate in particular and that we should discuss the amendment. I regret to say that most of the unknown reasons for the MP who had just had his exposure are permitted. Can’t “a widow - in - law these but lyrical bohemian ” regardless of what may be pleasant to some ears to listen to someone’s discussions. Either it's a debate in particular for everyone or it's not for anyone. I am here to support the full application of the Rules of Procedure, but we are not applying and without warning to the MP that he cannot talk about who came to war, and who can't go back to Croatia, that without warning he can't do it in particular, we create an atmosphere that other MPs say then, so I'm going to talk about fake diplomas, I'm going to talk about the purchased, I'm going to talk about this. Unnecessarily. This is a debate in particular, and we would do well to treat all MPs equally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3871	Thank you for your instruction, but I strictly adhered to the application of Article 106. (Gordana Comić, from the scene: "I may not be able to speak at least." ) Parliamentwoman Marinika Tepic did not speak at all about the amendment until I warned her, but spoke about the minister's decision to respond or not to some MPs in the general debate and spoke about his behaviour. (Gordana Comic, from the post: A previous speaker spoke about the war and his impressions. ) It may be funny, but you will never be in a position to interpret the Rules of Procedure, MP. (Balša Bozovic, from the city: Rules of Procedure. I'm asking you to finish my sentence, and I haven't even spoken to you. So, Marko Atlagic, an MP, spoke about the reasons why it is good to support this amendment and why some people in our country who cannot study in their republic from where they came from deserve to be extended to their master's and doctoral studies. Whether it bothers anyone to mention the example of the Republic of Croatia or not, we can discuss it, but it could also be used as an illustration and examples of other areas from which people who had to leave their country in Master's and Doctoral studies. If you think I should have stopped, I accept that, and we'll take that to the vote in front of the majority. Thank you. (Marko Atlagic, from the place: I did not mention the Republic of Croatia. Never mind. She mentioned a letter. Don't throw it away. It is my answer and my duty to answer your remarks about the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Gordana Komic, do you want to vote? No, I don't. ) (Gordana Comić, from the place: No, I just want there to be discussions in particular, not to be privileged MPs such as Mr Atlagic. ) Balša Bozovic, please. We have to delete the list.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3872	Member of the 107th President of the Assembly. With all due respect to you as President of the National Assembly, I ask you not to disrespect fellow MPs by telling them that they will never be in your position as National Assembly President or National Assembly President and, in that case, to interpret whether the Rules of Procedure has been broken or not. That's what you don't know and you can't claim, because your claim degrades our colleagues. Everyone here has a chance to be president or president of the National Assembly if they get most of it. You cannot speak. You will never be able to do so. That's how you disrespect someone who's equal to you. You're just the first among the equals, and I think that's the way it should stay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3873	I thank you, MP. Right, who did I disrespect? (Balsa Bozovic, from the post: Mr. Zdravko Stankovic to whom you have thrown from your place that he will never be able to interpret the Rules of Procedure. I'm glad you're his representative here, since he didn't... (Balsa Bozovic, from the post: I am a representative of fellow MPs and MPs. ) Would you be so kind, I will help you turn off the microphone, since often MPs leave the microphone, and then complain that they are wasting their time. So the exact definition of what I said was able to interpret the Rules of Procedure. (Balsa Bozovic, from the post: You will never get into this situation. ) So listen well to me – to interpret the Rules of Procedure, and the MP himself did not recognize himself and did not answer, and I do not see the possibility of harming the Rules of Procedure. (Balsa Bozovic throws. If you didn't quote me correctly and precisely what I said, and if in this assembly an MP will succeed, who are you... (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: I do not want to change you. Don't yell. I'm bound by the Rules of Procedure to answer your question. I didn't yell at you or any other messenger. So, will the MP you appointed and recognized in my sentence... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, There is a function called “silent”. That's what's bothering me with having a session. ... to convince most MPs to be president or vice president is not on me. (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: I do not want to change you. I haven't even spoken to you. Would you like us to vote on the violation of article 107? No, I don't. Thank you. Bosko Obradović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3874	The President-in-Office, honourable fellow MPs, I would like to join the dissatisfaction expressed by several MPs from the opposition's ranks regarding such a way of making amendments that we have all actually had very similar proposals. For what? If the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the resolution minister, Mr. Sarcevic or any of the ruling majority had in mind students after the graduation studies they had enrolled under the old programme, surely one such provision would have been found, Mr. Minister, in your proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Higher Education. The fact that I want to conclude is that you and these students, as well as the bologna, are going to talk about it later, recorded in 2006, 2007 and 2008 simply forgot. You have had the pressure of a number of students who have been enrolled under the old program to extend them and, as you have said, have feared their lawsuits and other things and have made these amendments and additions to the Law, forgetting students who have been in postgraduate, master's and doctoral studies and forgetting students who have enrolled Bologna since 2006. Now that you are, under pressure from the public and the MPs of the opposition, through a series of amendments, forced against the wall to practically accept that students who are in postgraduate studies are not discriminated against, you of course sent Mr Martinovic to propose the same amendment as the entire opposition, as well as the entire public who has risen against such discrimination. And that's not controversial. That's a good thing. That is why there is an opposition, to criticise you, to see irregularities in your work, to see what you have forgotten and to draw your attention to the amendments to correct something in the bill's proposals. But it is not correct that then your ex post mind here is recommended as some amendment that the government accepts. It was necessary to find a way, especially since you later rejected all other amendments to the opposition because an amendment to your head of the parliamentary group of the ruling majority was adopted. Therefore, it is absolutely incorrect for MPs of the opposition who have submitted the same amendments to the heads of the ruling party in the National Assembly. Therefore, the Government, at least with one sentence, even in footnote, should note that it is identical amendments, that it adopts the practical opinion of all MPs, regardless of whether they are from the authorities or opposition, who have proposed the same thing, and not that it adopts the amendment of MP Aleksandr Martinovic, who could remember before that and go to the minister who is in the government of his party, so that in time it suggests it to him, so that it enters into amendments and supplement the Law, not through amendments. So it is clear that you have forgotten these students, and now you are trying to get out of all of this and still attributing to Alexander Martinovic that he remembered the students his party had forgotten.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3875	The word is by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3876	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I was hoping that the atmosphere would be much better because we are also on the Committee, and it is seen through these discussions, all came up with a common solution that was regulated by students' demands. There's no need to attack each other, and I especially don't like it when someone says - your minister, your government. There isn't one of ours and your minister's, not one of ours and your government's. The moment we gave these men who now ministers trust here in the assembly, they became our government, the common government of all of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3877	Ambassador, the amendment. Defend the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3878	According to the amendment, it is. I am, like everyone else, in order to accept the amendment given by my colleague Martinovic and no one can say that we were not interested in these problems. If you look backwards and through the means of information, even these students are instructions from me and Atlagic that we talked to them all the time and that we were trying to find a solution. Why didn't the government accept it at first? Well, it doesn't matter that much. It's what happened at the end. I've talked to all of you or most of the opposition and I've seen that we have a common goal. It doesn't matter whose amendment was accepted. It could've been any one, one can. We can't accept all ten or twelve amendments and enter the law. One's coming in. Why is this an amendment proposed by fellow professor Dr. Martinovic? Well, maybe it's the most professional thing done. Maybe both legal and stylishly done right. I believe he did it much more successfully and better than I would have done. So I'm telling you, let's be lucky that we agree on all the proposals in the future and have similar opinions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3879	The word is made by the National MP Snježana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3880	I would like to say that the amendment that I have submitted with fellow MPs from the SPS Group has not been accepted for technical reasons, but I would like to say that we are pleased that the essence of our amendment has been accepted, by the adoption of the amendment of fellow Members of Mr Martinovic. We don't care who's gonna be the author of the amendment. It is important for us to accept the idea and essence, and our idea, and I agree with that assessment that it was the idea of most MPs, is to help students of postgraduate studies this time, by giving them an additional deadline to defend their master's thesis and doctoral dissertation. I am convinced that our graduates know and I am convinced that they will be further motivated to use this additional deadline in the right way, to defend them, to defend dissertation, because it is also in their interest, in terms of personal and professional affirmation, but also in the interests of society in general. We'll have more magistrates in the next two years, more science doctors. We know that it is those who carry classes at higher education institutions, those who carry research at scientific institutes, etc. Therefore, I must say that both for them and for us it is very important and I am very pleased and grateful to the Ministry and the Government, who have accepted this amendment. What I'd like to say, and I believe that graduates would be grateful to me today to say it here in front of all of us and the public is what's important and what our graduates are going through to defend the thesis and the doctoral dissertation. I wanted to talk about it and in principle debate, there wasn't enough time at the time, so here I am now going to take advantage of the opportunity to use the MP's time group to put it that way. So, in addition to the extra exams in the Master's Studies, for the very making of master's work or doctoral dissertation our candidates have a very demanding and difficult job. First of all, before they commit themselves to the problem they will be dealing with, they must, of course, commit themselves to studying literature, world literature, on the basis of which they will determine the degree of learning of a problem. After a long-term comprehensive analysis, they prepare an application for master's work, i.e. doctoral dissertation, leave a hypothesis in the application, establish material and methods of work and address a given higher education institution. Then the higher school institution discusses the application, and at different levels, starting with the cathedral, the professional council, the scientific and teaching council, and then all of this comes to the university, also through various levels of the university, also the professional council, the scientific and teaching council, the application gets the green light. It's only when it's all over that candidate's access to make master's work, or dissertation. I mean, last time I just mentioned, in many fields of science, such as natural sciences, such as biotechnical sciences, technical sciences, medical sciences, etc., these studies are years old. In agriculture, they last a few years. What does that mean? So, the most common sightings are set out in the open and, let's say, I mentioned, and now I'm going to mention, in warfare, they're the minimum three-year tours. Also in livestock and other branches of agriculture, the tours take a long time. In addition to taking a long time, our young associates, graduates are most often forced or forced to finance most of these studies themselves. That's why they're often great enthusiasts. When all this is finished and valuable data is obtained, it is only then that they are followed by statistical processing, comparison with literature, writing, the formation of master's work, or doctoral dissertation. When we thought that we had somehow brought an end to it and that we were following procedures now to determine the commission for evaluation and defense of the work itself, that's not so. Most often, in the largest number of universities, along with the long-term work prepared, further evidence is needed that what you have done is well, or worldwide, and therefore these candidates report publishing papers in international magazines. It's a wave of leading international magazines from the Copson list, with a high citation index, and what's important to emphasize...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3881	I'm asking you about the amendment. You've gone too wide.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3882	I'm talking about the amendment. I apologize to the president, using the time of the Parliament Group.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3883	Anyway, you need to talk about the amendment. You spend as much as you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3884	I commend what the government has done and what the minister has done, and I expect that our graduates will be pleased that we all hear what they are going through to defend the master's work, or doctoral dissertation. In addition to hard and demanding work, work is very long and I know a lot of students after graduates who should now defend master's work, or dissertation, and I ask you and all of us a question – what if this amendment had not been adopted? We would return them to enroll the third year of doctoral studies, to go again, this whole procedure to pass. They and society in general would be at a loss. That is why I wanted to point out that we have done a good thing and to commend the minister and his associates who have recognised and respected all of this, in a way the amendments of all of us MPs, although only one amendment has been formally adopted. And once again I want to say to this occasion, because I come from college, it's very important and it's worth respecting that the colleges have supported us, because the essence of all of us here is to be unique, to achieve one consensus when it comes to such important issues. Most of the colleges supported these initiatives, and again I say that it is worth the attention and respect, since universities implement a large number of study programmes under the current programme, since they are not rarely faced with numerous problems and organisational and technical and material and personnel, to fully meet the applicable standards, valid standards when it comes to valid study programmes. This is an extra effort for them, this is something for them that they especially have to commit to, but they support us, support the students, and all that says is that we're on the right track. And whose amendment it will be, whether it will be from fellow Martinovic, or another MP, it does not matter. It is important that we have reached a consensus and that we are all agreed that we have done one good thing today, and once again I thank the Minister of Government and all of your associates who have supported us, and probably this gratitude is on behalf of fellow students, after the graduates I've been talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3885	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Jasmina Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3886	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I have also submitted an amendment extending the deadline and students of master's and doctoral studies, believing they should have the same treatment as all other students whose deadline has expired. Of course, I mean the students you've seen, or the Bologna students who've also run out of time. Whenever the deadline is extended, and that is the only reason why I can justify the extension of this amendment, whenever the deadline is extended to students of primary studies for two years, and this has happened four times in total so far, it has also been extended to students of master and doctoral studies. Since we don't have any other information from the promoter's representative why it wouldn't happen this time, or why it would happen this time, I think that's a good enough explanation, because we would do damage for which we don't have an estimate, even if we adopt it, even if we don't adopt it. So we don't have comprehensive information from the promoter and we haven't heard it from the representative. This amendment, we are aware, will raise a number of questions in a certain way, starting with the fact that there are technical problems that the colleague has already pointed out, which is that Article 32, independent member of the 2010 Law, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education, must be adapted. However, it is not the only member who has to change. There's another member who practically needs to be deleted, and that's Article 128. The law, which has never been changed, despite the fact that this is the fifth time that we are changing the law and it is said, I will read because it is important that we have this in mind – persons who, according to the regulations that were in force until the day of entry into force of this law, have acquired the academic name of the master of science, can obtain the academic name of a doctor of science, by defending the doctoral dissertation according to the regulations that were in force until the entry into force of this law, no later than the deadline, and it is explicitly stated – from seven years from the date of entry into force of this law. It's supposed to be 2005. That deadline's long gone. This law would have to be deleted. He comes into collapsing directly with an independent member of 32. The Law amending and supplementing the 2010 Law, which to these same persons, adds to the persons who acquire the title of the Master of Science, after the entry into force of the law and by old regulations, to be able to complete until 2015, 2016. That should be consistent. In addition to this technical work, the following questions are raised, very important issues. Is there going to be a master's degree in master's studies? I suppose it'll be left to the higher school institutions to regulate the general act. The fact is, students have a right to do that. Will they be able to now, and now please listen very carefully to me, will the students who are mastering now, once we have passed this law, be able to enroll the doctoral studies of the old, since they also have the right to do so? For example, there are deadlines defined at certain universities, which related to the deadline for completion of master's doctoral studies according to the old one, is an example of the University of Belgrade that I know of, which defined the deadline for the application of doctoral dissertation on 30 September 2015, so one year after the deadline for these studies to be completed. What's gonna happen to that deadline? And my question is, in fact, to the proposer – have you thought about who will be and how they will deal with it and what possible consequences will they have if that deadline is changed, established, or never brought about? The next problem we have with this amendment is – will they be able to doctorate on the old students who continue this status and at any higher education institution that they have the right to, or only at a higher education institution that today has accredited doctoral studies from areas from which students work doctoral dissertation? Finally, and this may be one of the most important questions, on it I will remain a little longer, is – what will happen to students who, considering that the deadline for completion of doctoral studies according to the old one, which was 30 September 2015, 2016, expired, and he de facto expired, enrolled doctoral studies after the new one, and they definitely signed them in, what will happen to those students? How will they get back to studying as they were, will they have the right to do so? Because now it's already someone acquired the right that we're getting into. Why are we getting into him? Because we make the law. Twenty-six days after the deadline for completing the study has expired, so we are passing a law that has a return fact by every force. We tried yesterday in the discussion to point out that the law has a return fact, that it requires some provision of the law, that somehow it finds that the law has a return fact and that, when the law is voted on, the general interest is established. That didn't happen. So, even though we think that all students need to be extended, because we don't have the data, we don't have a way to figure out whether to be extended or not to be extended, we don't have layered data, we don't know what students are, we don't know how many students are, we're guessing. We can't support the law. This amendment has become an integral part, as the president said, of the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education. Since we believe that it does not contain a provision of a return fact, and it would have to contain it, as it concerns the time between September 30 and the day in which we adopt the law, practically this law that we adopt and by an emergency procedure, in our court, is not constitutional and could be brought down, i.e. could be the subject of an initiative to raise the issue of constitutionality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3887	The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3888	The Honorable President of the Assembly, the Honorable Ministers, I, as a People's MP, will support the amendment proposed by Dr Martinovic, because I think it is the right that our future masters, future science doctors, are looking for, because as Professor Martinovic said. Atlagic, that a large number of people who come from municipalities such as the municipality of Svrljig, who are undeveloped, where hard to live, who have managed to graduate from college, but for some of their reasons, economically, have failed to complete the master's degree and doctorate. I think this was necessary. Once again, I thank Mr. Martinovic, because this was the right time, and you as a Government, or you ministers, have great experience and knowledge, and I think also by adopting this amendment and by adopting this law, we will give the opportunity to give more students from municipalities such as my municipality, where they will be able to finish colleges, which are very difficult to live there and we all know what state agriculture and agricultural colleges are in, since the doctors of agricultural sciences, I hope there will be even more. I call on fellow MPs from other parties to support this proposal of our amendment, proposed by Mr Martinovic. I am not a member of the SNS, I am a representative and president of the USS and I fully support this amendment and all other amendments that give support to young people to finish what they started and to make Serbia better. I, as an MP, will vote in favour of this amendment and normally, will vote in favour of the other laws proposed by the Government headed by our Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3889	The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3890	The President-in-Office, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, amendment of counterpart Aleksandr Martinovic to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education refers to the extension of the deadline for completion of the study to all those who have entered into force before the entry into force of the new Law on Higher Education, therefore, under this curriculum and programme, under these conditions and under those rules. The proposed law contained only the provision that this applies to students of basic studies. The amendment of counterpart Martinovic proposed that the extension of the deadline for completion of studies under the curricula and programme should also apply to students of master's studies and to students of doctoral studies. The government has accepted that amendment. The Education Committee has accepted the amendment. I want to inform you that I will accept it in the voting day, and I want to explain it. Such an amendment was almost the same submitted by the SPS parliamentary group. What does it matter to us? In the principle debate on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education, the SPS Parliamentary Group, giving full support to the proposed amendments to the law, also stated that in the work concerning the extension of the deadline for the completion of studies under the old curricula and programme, the conditions and rules relating to the students of basic studies, we stressed the requirement that this applies to both the students of master studies and the students of doctoral studies, thus ensuring that it applies equally to all. We made that request through the amendment we submitted. Given that the adoption of this amendment by Mr. Martinovic our request is fulfilled, and that is the essence, therefore, of these amendments that this same right applies to students of master's and doctoral studies, we are satisfied. We're interested in the essence, and the essence, what I've already shown, is that our request to refer to students of master's, doctoral studies has been adopted. For these reasons, we show satisfaction and support this approach to the government that has respected the requirements, not only our parliamentary groups, but the vast majority of the parliamentary groups, and I think that is the most important. The request to refer to all students is respected, and that is why we need to support this. Finally, I want these students, all the students, and above all for the citizens of Belgrade, Belgrade and Serbia to congratulate today, Belgrade's Day of Liberation from the German occupier in 1944. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3891	The word has been made by MP Ivan Bauer.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3892	Thank you, President. Dear Ministers, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members of the People, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I believe that we can all agree on something, the applicants of the amendments, and I believe all the other MPs, which is that the motivation of all of us was the same, and the motivation to submit such an amendment was the principle of equality. I would really like to put things in the first place that we agree on rather than just the ones we differ on. We wanted to equalise the rights of students of primary studies and students of postgraduate studies, or students of master's studies and PhDs, although true to will, it's something harder to finish master's studies, especially making doctoral dissertation, than finishing basic studies, but I'm saying, we stuck to the principles of equality and that's something that's right. Not all amendments have been accepted, but they are also not all amendments in the same text. In particular, the amendment of the SDPS parliamentary group differs in several of its texts in relation to the amendment submitted by Prof. Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic and, of course, that one and the other amendments could not be accepted. It is not only our amendment that differs in the text from this amendment that has been accepted and thus became an integral part of the law. As far as I'm concerned, and I believe that fellow Members of my parliamentary group agree, the most important thing for us is that this amendment has become an integral part of the law, namely that we have adhered to the principles of equality and that in these rights we have evened both magistrates and PhDs with students of basic studies. It is much more important than whether, for me, at least, and I believe that my fellow Members from my parliamentary group agree, much more important than whether they will write that the amendment of this or that MP has been accepted. The direct cause for the submission of this amendment, which we as a parliamentary group, i.e. several MPs of our parliamentary group submitted, was communication with students, as well as Professor Stoimirovic and Professor Atlagic, and we were addressed by some students. In particular, I've spoken to a doctor, and that's why I'd like to share that conversation with you, Minister, for the very problem that this doctor has is one of the reasons why we came into this situation. What's this about? This doctor has completed his doctoral dissertation, has met all formal conditions for doctoring, namely to defend his doctoral dissertation, except that he is at the university, which is one of the universities of Belgrade University, are somewhat different rules than those that I, as someone who participates in university work, know. So the rules I know are that when a magazine, which is on the SCI list, therefore, a magazine that has been accepted by the Ministry of Education, accepts the work and that you confirm that this work will be published, it is considered a condition, or two works you should have, to defend doctoral dissertation. A particular college does not accept this as a met condition, but requires that this work be published. Anyone who has ever participated in university work knows that sometimes it can take six months or even a year to publish a certain scientific paper. What I want to say to the Minister is why I want to appeal to him. It is that, apart from this principle of equality, which we are establishing by accepting the amendment submitted by Prof. Martinovic, I would like to establish another principle, which is the principle of predictability. I don't mind that certain colleges justify or create their elite status by setting more criteria, whether it's about the criteria for doctoring, whether it's about the criteria for choice in a particular knowledge or choice in multiple titles. Please, strictly formal procedures, at least I think they should be the same at all colleges. Why should we distinguish strictly formal procedures from college to college? The elite status of a university is not established by making some strict formal procedure more complicated for students. Why would a doctor at one university have the right to doctorate because he has two papers published, or because his two papers will be published in an adequate magazine, and some other student can't doctor, or he can't be elected to multiple calls because his works have not been published yet, because I say sometimes it can take quite a long time? So what I insist on, under the circumstances, is to see with colleges whether it's possible to create a system that's going to be the same everywhere, and that's a system that will ensure that the principle of predictability, that the essence, or the meaning, is the same form, and not the other way around. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3893	The word is Zoran Dragisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3894	I'm giving up the discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3895	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3896	Thank you. It's a good thing the government accepted the amendment. There is no reason for the opposition's MPs to be surprised and rebelled against it. I wonder why you're so naive. This is one way the government normally works. What are we now surprised by the methodology that we have come to the adoption of the very amendment of the head of the ruling party's parliamentary group? Well, when didn't that happen? It's a metaphor. As this happened with the adoption of that amendment, it's a metaphor of the current government's work. It's good, I hope, not these students sitting upstairs and I expect them to finish their studies in time, but it's good for those who are late for any reason to get a new chance. There's no dilemma. The problem is why it has to go through one bad methodology, as it has been so far. Why did the government not propose this in its bill of law? Why didn't the government suggest it in time? Why are we getting into all the procedural problems that we heard about from our colleague Jasmine? Why is all this happening? Because this government rules. What happened? There's been a change of attitude. So, two months ago, the minister said they were all against it, and here we are all for it, and that's the same metaphor of this government. There used to be a hundred others to slaughter, if necessary, today we bow down before them, and that's a change of government, attitude, and we can say it's legitimate. I'm talking about the amendment very precisely. We also have one proverbial courtship of the smaller coalition partners of the largest party, so we have heard three discussions of colleagues who are in that parliamentary group or in some other groups who are willing to vote for this amendment at any cost. This amendment has already been adopted by the government and becomes an integral part of the law, so it is not voted. Gentlemen, if you want to prove courtship, show it in some other way. I think it's very good, let me say it one more time, which goes on. There is no reason for the government to show little greater hearing because when it sees that we have five, six different parliamentary groups of the same proposals that, at least it says in one sentence that it is not accepted because an amendment whose adoption adopts and your proposals has been adopted. No, the answer is, imagine, not to adopt the amendment of colleagues and colleagues because one amendment has already been adopted. By what law? By what logic? Do any student, do these good students sitting upstairs or these students who have a chance to finish colleges realize that it's possible that something is going on just because something else is adopted, and it's the same or similar, maybe not every point, but it's essentially the same? That is why the authorities who are ready to communicate with all their political opponents are different, to hear other opinions, that when this beautiful situation happens that the opinions of different political entities get closer or become identical to that, and not that it is a reason to say it in the most arrogant way – no, no, we remember it, no one else. The argument that the question of who is proposing the amendment is meaningless in itself. It may be in a hundred-metre race or a marathon, but not in parliament, and that is not true, because some colleagues have tabled a proposal for an amendment, which is essentially the same as that accepted by the government before a respected colleague gave it. You have to have a hearing about when you have to give that amendment. I've given two amendments. One is practically, essentially adopted this way, because an amendment of colleagues has been adopted and no one should praise me for it, but I have a problem with rejecting amendments to Article 4.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3897	Ambassador, this amendment alone, and your time is running out.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3898	I've got five minutes. It doesn't matter, there's no hundred members here, it's not some other matter. I think it has something to do with this. With all the procedural shortcomings that we already have, just one more sentence, by adopting this amendment to Article 4, it would resolve the dilemma as this law applies.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3899	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3900	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I expected something more, but I think the purpose of the opposition was that the text of the amendment, proposed by them, be adopted. Whether excess vanity and lack of knowledge, mostly I, if I were an opposition, would be happy to have contributed that most, the ruling majority adopt what the opposition thinks is appropriate to a particular group. This is about the students. If I were them, I'd be happy because some solution was accepted, no matter whose text and whose name was signed. As I said before, knowledge has limits, ignorance is gone. I would say in this regard that no one here has said anything, and my colleague of the agriculturals, especially because Pavicevic is not here. He'd certainly say more. But in a strange way he was eliminated, so academically congratulating. I have to admit I miss him, and I think my colleague's missing him more, and I don't know who's gonna look after him next time he comes to the Assembly and drinks something more, but back to the amendment...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3901	Ambassador.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3902	As far as the doctorate is concerned, we need to re-examine these professors, make professors for a simple reason because some doctorates stick to each other for six months in drawers. Also, when it comes to knowledge, it's knowledge, someone said it's like rowing by the water, as soon as you stop rowing back. I'm afraid many professors have gone back and haven't completed their knowledge in time. There's a big difference between knowledge and calling, which is why we have to do something, check out what the professors really know. Let's see what's the difference between their knowledge and their calling, because many, as we say, peasants are shutting down in the complementarity of their knowledge, and that's why students suffer, in this case those who have submitted their doctorate, because the deadline of a month is over six times. One more thing to finish in this part, and I'm using the time of the president of the parliamentary group, knowledge is the wealth that my owner is following everywhere. Knowledge is a fortune that follows its owner everywhere, it's obvious that my farmer came today poor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3903	The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3904	I would like to thank the President of the Assembly. So, we talked about the debate in the principle that amendments and additions of laws are not complete until the students, of course, who have enrolled in the studies in Bologna are included. Here we now have, an integral part of the law, becoming the amendment of Mr Martinovic who, of course, were submitted by Mrs Gordana Komic and Mr Zarko Obradovic and many other parliamentary groups present here. So, it's still bad, I'd say, the practice that politicians on things relating to the future of the country and at the end of the quality of higher education that we discussed in the principle debate, which we can't reach, which is because we're careless, which is because we don't know how to establish quality control at the university exit and see if Bologna works, to see how many students in the old system have finished college. What are the effects of all the things we've adopted all these years? I think it's important that students in the old system finally finish colleges, they have the right to do it for another two years, I'm sure most of them will take advantage of it. Also, when it comes to graduates, we talked about a debate in principle. It doesn't make sense that someone who had a deadline to enroll in a doctoral study by 31 December 2013 that his subject and similarity were approved somewhere in mid-2014, that he didn't have two years for quality doctoral dissertation. So, in the conversation that we had, or myself, with representatives and heads of Parliament groups, starting, of course, from our own, and beyond and all others, of course, and with Mr Martinovic, we concluded in agreement with the minister that it would become an integral part of the amendment and addition of the law, and I think it is a good practice. Gordana Comic, for example, had one change that differed in one sentence from that of Mr Martinovic, who adopted the government, she may have more comprehensively addressed the issue since she made it possible for those doctoral students who knew they would not finish in two years, that they could, if they wanted to enroll in a third year of doctoral studies. All right, that's not accepted, I suppose for political reasons, which is not good, but in any case we will when it comes to these amendments and the amendments to the bill we will adopt. Finally, the question is, what are we going to do when it comes to students in 2006, 2007 and 2008, Bolognans? We talked on the board today a lot about this, and I am thanking all the board members, of course, and Mr. Minister who, along with the board president, took part in the debate. I also thank the former minister, Mr. Zarko Obradovic, who also understood the problem and colleague Aleksandri Jerkov, who as a member of the Committee on Education, Science and Technological Development understood the essence of the problem and together we tried to convince all those present that it was important for each next time to solve problems, and not to have politicians in the way this is my amendment, this is your amendment, this is the SNS amendment, this is the DS amendment. That's not the point. The theme is to solve the problems, i.e. the chaos of higher education that has arisen, which is why chaos is the only thing that suffers are students or graduates. We now appeal that every time these situations are resolved, unless we can agree with the ministry or on the tide that it is the Committee on Education who will propose these amendments that will be adopted unanimously, because they really concern the fate of the people. The fate of people and the quality of higher education when it comes to the Republic of Serbia. I think it is very important, and we will come to that solution in later discussions, and I hope that we have managed to convince the argument, above all, of the Education Committee, at the end and other representatives of the parliamentary groups, to solve the question of students who are I say, experimental students because they signed up studies in 2006, 2007 and 2008, according to the new system of Bologna, because we cannot allow 2,000 of them to continue studying just because we strictly adhere to the law when they are concerned, and we do not strictly adhere to the law, or we change it when it comes to those who have previously enrolled their studies. So, I think it is very important that we find a common solution here, we are on a good path, and I really believe in the minister's determination, I believe in the good intention of the Serbian government to accept some compromise that we have made on that committee and to try to solve with some direction all the doubts that we have that will happen by transferring these problems by way of Article 94 to the colleges that will be obliged to use instructions from the Ministry to integrate it into the general act of the university and thus be in some kind of obligation to implement it. That students who are in Bologna can continue, not to re-enlist, and not only continue their studies for a year, but to keep this sequel free and to get in control in three months to see the exact, individual cases where we had a problem, which the university deafened about the Ministry's instruction to solve this particular problem. So, in our hands is the future of those who wrote to us these few days, to say weeks, which are for their own personal reasons, or because they worked or because they supported their families or because they founded their families, or because they had personal problems, or perhaps for some health reasons, are really good students and indeed many of them became graduates within the deadline. Then because of some unscheduled circumstances, something happened that required them to continue their studies, and these students were not on the burden of the state, these students were paying their duties neatly, and when it comes to the school year and when it comes to exams and when it comes to overtures, when it comes to points, and it's really important that those who have done their duties neatly, we reward them, not to punish them because they happened on several occasions that we have a situation to do, for example. For health reasons, because of someone's struggle for their child or personal life, we punish a perfect student for not finishing his studies, and he has two, three or five exams left until the end. I think it's very important for us to get into the essence of this problem. It's not just their fault that they didn't finish college in time doesn't make them any less capable, no less smart, doesn't make them less capable of pulling our society forward. We talked about that 50-year jump, in a debate in principle, that Serbia must have alternative development if modern societies of Europe want to arrive. It may be precisely among them that some future president, the future president, some reformers of the system that exist today are not solely because of students, but because of this system, there is a constant funding of expensive cash loans, they constantly force their parents into debt slavery, and we no longer have the right as responsible representatives of citizens to remain silent, but to actually meet them. I think it's very important that we underline, because it's a great deal of interest, many of them came here today to listen to our discussions, not only to talk about the bill, but to really mention this in some way and again, in all doubt that many will try to avoid this direction of the ministry, I really think it's very important to mention it for the simple reason why it's the most important thing. We can't lose 2,000 people, they're talented, they're smart. I'm sure if they get a chance to finish their studies, a lot of them will be better than the best I believe in them. I believe in them, and I think that many of them will be able before, perhaps the best ones to change our society, and all together that we will have much more quality higher education and ultimately society so as not to drive them out of the country, so that knowledge remains in Serbia. They have knowledge. We need to enable them to stay in the country, to also offer jobs in Serbia after the study is finished, not to talk here about reforms and some, as I would say, phrases, but to really stay in Serbia, to tell them what priority it is when it comes to money, not to spend money on things that we may not need, but to put them at the top of our priorities, to say how we will use them, their knowledge, to develop Serbia and to skip 50 years when it comes to this development and to actually reach some more modern societies. I'm sure we also need students who have enrolled in Bologna for that very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3905	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go. Try to get a colleague Martinovic's credit card out and get it back. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3906	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. First of all, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to welcome our colleagues from Belgrade University. I want them to be good and successful students and to finish their studies in time and help with their academic knowledge to make Serbia a better and more successful country than it is today. I want to thank you, Mr. Minister, as resolute minister, of course. To thank the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because it has accepted this amendment and I think it is a good example of how the National Assembly and the Government can cooperate well when it comes to something called public, or general interest. I would like to make a few notes simply that even colleagues who follow from the gallery this session and all students in Serbia and ultimately all Serbian citizens would not be in some sort of confusion or doubt. First of all, the amendment was signed by me and I suggested it and I handed it over to the office, and I formulated it, but I did it on behalf of the SNS parliamentary group, not in my personal name. Therefore, behind this is the view of the SNS that it is necessary to meet students who have enrolled master's or doctoral studies, according to a so-called old programme and allow them to complete their master's or doctoral studies. Once again, Mr. Minister, I want to thank you because this amendment of the SNS, not the amendment of Alexander Martinovic, but the SNS, has been accepted, and in this way we all together and the MPs and you of the Government have eliminated the possibility of anyone saying that anyone is potentially discriminated because someone is allowed to, or someone has been left an additional period of one year, to students of basic studies, and that the magistrates, i.e. the magistrates and doctors are not left with that deadline. So we came up with a joint solution and a parliamentary group of SNS and a resolute ministry and the Government of the Republic of Serbia that should apply the same legal regime to both students of basic studies and students of master studies and students of doctoral studies, and I think it's a good thing that we did that. At least I expected my colleagues from the SNS parliamentary group, and that's professor. Ljubisa Stoimirovic explained nicely, I think this is the topic which last deserves to be the subject of daily political bickering. It turns out that this is also the topic on which the SNS parliamentary group is to be lynched, in which the National Assembly President Maja Gojkovic is to be lynched, and ultimately, the topic on which the RS government should be lynched. Why do I say that? Now, the government of the RS has committed a huge political crime because, imagine, it has accepted the amendment of a MP named Aleksandar Martinovic, who, by the circumstances of the SNS parliamentary group and now turns out that the government has accepted this amendment not because of its essence, not because of its nature, not because of his spirit, not because he is in the public or general interest, primarily in the interests of students and basic and masteral and doctoral studies, but because, you can imagine, Alexander Martinovic, as if I were, Mr. Minister, a politically very important man in this country, depends on me whether the government will accept or not. After I put up with it, the government had nowhere else to go, so she had to accept the amendment. If it had been submitted by another fellow amendment, it would not have been accepted. This devalues the level of debate, thus disabling the students, leading Serbian citizens into confusion. It replaces the essence with form. Speaking of form, and I want to point out, it is not true that the amendments of other colleagues were rejected only because they are identical to my amendment. There is absolutely no amendment of the MP from any other parliamentary group identical to the amendment that I have submitted on behalf of the SNS, and I would like to stress that. This is not about everyone else being rejected because they are in shape and contained identical to the amendment. None of them are identical. As proof of that, I want to read the first next amendment that has not been accepted. I hope my esteemed colleague Gordana Komic does not take what I say for evil now, or I really do not want to be maligned. There is no need to tighten the political atmosphere in Serbia on this topic. I suggested on behalf of the SNS parliamentary group and the government had an understanding of the proposal to equate students of basic studies, students of master studies and students of doctoral studies. Not to read my entire amendment now, but here's just the attitude that applies to doctoral students to make these gallery colleagues, so that students can see what's going on here. They're not identical amendments and the government didn't accept my amendment just because he's mine, i.e. Members' groups of SNS, but because the Government has assessed that the amendment is essentially best suited to the spirit of the bill's proposal, and the amendments of other MPs are neither in shape nor in content identical to my amendment. Therefore, the attitude in which students are mentioned is entered into doctoral studies in the amendment, which I submitted on behalf of the SNS parliamentary group – students enrolled in doctoral studies, i.e. candidates who have applied for doctoral dissertation until the entry into force of this law, have the right to complete studies according to the started plan and programme in terms of conditions and rules of study, i.e. to obtain the scientific degree of doctoral science by the end of school 2017/2018 at the latest. A year. That's part of the amendment that applies to doctoral students. Part of the amendment, which also applies to students of doctoral studies, reads: “Students enrolled in doctoral studies, i.e. candidates who have applied for doctoral dissertation until the entry into force of this law, have the right to complete studies according to plan and programme, conditions and rules of study, i.e. to obtain the scientific degree of doctoral science by the end of school 2018/2019 at the latest. This is important to stress, "if the nature of the dissertation is such that it requires years of scientific research or enrolls in the third year of school 2016/2107. the year." I'm sorry, this isn't an identical amendment. So it's not that the government has accepted this amendment that we are now discussing just because Alexander Martinovic signed it, but because it is different from all the other amendments that are submitted to Article 1. It's a bill of law. Why do I think the amendment is fundamentally different? First, here, let my colleagues correct me if I'm wrong. I respect them all, I respect them all. There's a doctor of science among them. There are people among them who do scientific research, university work, university work. First, I can't accept that there's some doctoral dissertation that doesn't require years of scientific research. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Here, Stefanovic ended in only a few months. ) Here, you see, colleagues, how one serious topic turns into something that should look like a show program. The SNS parliamentary group will not fall for this provocation. We will try, all of my colleagues will try to make an argument, calmly, without any daily-political disputes, discuss each amendment one by one and finally see whether we and the Government are right or are right to submit the amendments. So there's no doctoral dissertation, in my humble opinion, that doesn't require years of scientific research. We could ask a hypothetical question here – who will evaluate what doctoral dissertations they require, which do not require years of scientific and research work, and what does multi-annual scientific and research work mean? For me, multi-year scientific work is all that's longer than a year. Then we're introducing colleges into space so they can make an arbitration decision. For someone for years of scientific work will be writing dissertation for two years, for someone the years of scientific work will be writing dissertation for three years, for some five years, for some ten years, etc. I fully accept the argument of my colleague Bogosavljevic Boskovic from the SPS parliamentary group. So there really are doctoral dissertations from certain, primarily natural and technical, sciences that require a few years to write quality. Now, how many are the few? Then we leave one free space for the colleges to judge for themselves. That's why I think it's my humble opinion again, that the government has done well to accept this amendment, not the amendment by Col. Comic, who, I repeat, is not identical to my amendment, i.e. With the amendment of the SNS parliamentary group because in this way we make it easier for students, we bring all students in Serbia into a position, we don't put anyone in a tight spot – if dissertation requires years of scientific work. We've heard a lot of stories here about how students are discriminated against, how they pay dearly for their studies, how their parents owe them, take credit to finance their studies, etc. It is now an appeal to Minister Sarcevic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia for accepting an amendment that primarily eliminates the possibility of discrimination between students of basic, master's and doctoral studies, and then, Mr. Minister, for me, also very important, eliminates the possibility of discrimination and the students themselves of doctoral studies because the colleges will now be unable to determine by their own free judgment what a multi-year scientific research paper is, whether it is two, three, four, five or more years. In that sense, I think my amendment, it's a little degutant to keep mentioning it, my amendment, so, the amendment you accepted, is more consistent with the rules of students than the amendments of my distinguished colleagues from some other parliamentary groups. Here, Mrs. Comic, I tried as hard as I could to be fair and correct with you, I didn't throw it at you. As far as I'm concerned, you guys can keep throwing, but if you want to have a serious discussion, we're ready for that. I think that by throwing this away, you're just showing that you don't care about the interests of students and that all those regrets about the rights of students are actually for daily-political reasons. One more thing I want to point out, simply that the citizens of Serbia and students who listen to this transmission and watch it would not be in doubt. A colleague said, she wonders why the government accepted this amendment by the SNS parliamentary group, when the amendment is not reasoned and there is no justification. That's just not true. So, this amendment, which I, on behalf of the SNS parliamentary group, submitted and has an explanation. You can all see that. So, the explanation of the amendment exists. The explanation is - the SNS parliamentary group believes it is in a social and educational sense that deadlines for the completion of the study are extended when students are enrolled in basic, master's and doctoral studies. The amendment is in line with the spirit of the law and the objectives proposed by the law. The amendment also eliminates the possibility of discrimination in the rights between students of primary studies and students of master and doctoral studies. So it is not true that the government accepted the amendment without reason. The amendment has an explanation and the government has respected this argument by the SNS parliamentary group. Once again, Mr. Minister, I am taking this opportunity to thank you for having appreciated the argument of this amendment. It is also not true that the acceptance of the amendment was not followed by an explanation. The government has said well – the amendment is accepted for the reasons set out in the reasons for the amendment. That's why I just read it. So all the business conditions for this amendment to become an integral part of the bill have been met. One more thing I have to say, as president of the SNS parliamentary group, which is being exposed here to a barbaric fire. Now we're the world's biggest hooligans because, imagine, our amendment has been accepted. So, counterpart Maja Gojkovic, president of the National Assembly, has already explained in part why amendments to Article 1 have not been accepted. Proposals for laws proposed by some other colleagues. It's a matter of handing over the amendments first and foremost. It's something that's commercially relevant. The other thing that's also very important, amendments, I've already said that, but I want to repeat again, they're not identical to the amendment the government has accepted. So, there are only two amendments, for the sake of public speaking, that people are not in doubt and confusion, there are only two amendments that are both in shape and in content identical. On Article 1, in the same text, amendments were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Marko Milenkovic, and to Article 1 respectively, the amendment was submitted by MP Miladin Ševarlic, MP Jasmina Nikolic and joint MPs Ivan Bauer, Milorad Mijatović, Vladimir Marinković and Predrag Jelenkovic. These are the only amendments that have been submitted in the same text. Therefore, there are no other amendments that are identical, and in particular there is no amendment that is identical to the amendment that the Government has accepted. There were words here, in my opinion, extremely inappropriate, extremely degutantly, that words were sent to my esteemed colleague Mark Atlagic, one renowned professor of the university, a man behind whom years of scientific and educational work stand. Mr. Atlagic, fully justified and from the heart, tried to explain that there are students whose deadlines for completion of the study are extended, regardless of whether they are students of basic studies, master's or doctoral studies, due to the living circumstances in which they were found. Someone thought it wasn't the subject of the agenda. This is also how the agenda theme, because counterpart Atlagic very well assessed and noticed that for some students, for some people, after all, we have to extend the deadline for completion of the study, because life has forced them to do so. For some, that was funny. Some thought it was a violation of the Rules of Procedure. And I thought what Professor Atlagic said was life. He moved someone's life from his eternal hearth. He also moved Mark Atlagic, who moved from Zadar to Republika Srpska, lives in Belgrade today and is a professor, among other things, at the University of Kosovo Mitrovica. Here some have lectured us in patriotism – here, you from the Serbian Progressive Party are abolishing, trying to lift the University of Kosovo Mitrovica at a small door, trying to integrate our educational institutions into an educational system of the non-existent state of Kosovo. Here's a living man, Professor Mark Atlagic, whom you tried to expose to a link, a Serb from Krajina, teaches at the Serbian University of Kosovo Mitrovica. You have another example. Not here, my distinguished colleague, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic, also teaches at the University of Kosovo Mitrovica. Imagine now what kind of villains we are from the Serbian Progressive Party, some of these people sitting here, so people sitting here, Marko Atlagic, Aleksandra Tomic, are enemies of the Serbian people, they are traitors of Serbia, they want this bill and by voting for this small-door bill to abolish the educational institutions of Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija, and they surrender to these institutions, from these salaries to support themselves and members of their families. You see how pointless this discussion is about someone from the SNS trying to abolish Serbia's educational institutions in Kosovo and Metohija. Not that we're not trying to stop them, but we're going to do everything we can to strengthen them. Among other things, by sending the best personnel, our best people to hand over to Serbian youth in Kosovo and Metohija. We send them people like Mark Atlagic, like Aleksandra Tomic, who have envied scientific and research work. And thank you, Mr. Atlagic, for schooling and for educating the Serbian youth in Kosovo and Metohija, and for not having a hard time giving top-notch lectures to our students in Kosovo Mitrovica in the late nights. I ask some other colleagues who taught us about patriotism, the abolition of Serbian institutions in Kosovo and Metohija – where are they at 2:00 in the morning, when Marko Atlagic travels by bus to Kosovo Mitrovica? Where are they at that moment? They're probably sleeping or they're in a bar somewhere. Marko Atlagic does not sleep, not in a cafe, but travels to Kosovo Mitrovica, not to abolish Serbia's educational institutions in Kosovo and Metohija, but to preserve them, to strengthen them, and to support Serbia's youth to stay in the southern Serbian province. Finally, there were words here about how worried we are, that some are concerned about young people not leaving Serbia. We're all worried. I'm like a father worried. And my colleagues are worried. We all have, or most of us have children, some of us have grandchildren. I don't admit that someone loves our children more than we do ourselves. We all want our children to stay in Serbia and we all want the fruit of their education, through both primary and secondary education and colleges, capitalizing here, in our country. But we're not gonna do that with empty stories. This will not be achieved by continuing attacks against the Prime Minister, the minister, on fellow MPs, such as Mr Marko Atlagic. This will be achieved in one way: work, as we have opened factories in Nis, as we have opened factories in Vladic's Han, such as today's opening of a new factory in Kikinda or tomorrow in Krusevec, it is the only way to preserve young people in Serbia, provide them with jobs and give them a chance to make their knowledge, acquired in Serbia, come true in Serbia and Serbia finally move forward. Thank you, Mr. Minister, for showing your understanding of all these arguments by the SNS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3907	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3908	Article 106 has been injured. A little while ago we heard from the president of the National Assembly, when she was taking away the opposition MPs, that they couldn't talk about anything but the point of the agenda, which is the amendment, and even when they talked about education and expanded the agenda a little bit. You've allowed here a tirad representative of the SNS who's been talking about everything for 25 minutes, just not amendments. So, first of all, he's a injured Rules of Procedure. Secondly, you have discrimination in the Assembly and you carry out this will and haughtiness all the time. This really has to stop. In this way you cannot hold meetings of the National Assembly, neither you nor the President. So I ask you to go back to the Rules of Procedure and stick to the agenda, not to allow for position, and the opposition, even when it comes to the subject, you try to slow down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3909	I don't think the mentioned article in 106 has been broken. I would understand Mr. Radulovic that he was mentioned in any way in the discussion of counterpart Martinovic I know the Rules of Procedure well, but I also know how Parliament works. [[Sasa Radulovic, from the post: Then I would ask for a replica. I know the Rules of Procedure well.]] We are neither illiterate nor ignorant here, and you will not raise us. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: Then how did you allow 25 minutes of this tirad? ) No colleague, not one of her colleagues, has been taken from her, and you have not told the truth, but the president has asked for a little more talk about the subject than other stories. The third thing – Aleksandar Martinovic is the applicant of this amendment. He listened for an hour as his amendment was criticised. You want me to take away his right to answer? I'll never do that. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: I want you to have the same arches. You have the same arches, Mr. Radulovich. Do you want the National Assembly to be declared in the voting day? (Saša Radulovic, from the place: I want to. I also want you to stop discrimination. I thank you. The National Assembly will be declared. Right on the line. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3910	Thank you. Without any need, the debate on the details of the content of the amendments introduced, which is currently not on the agenda, which I have submitted and without any need for this amendment, has given meaning in the explanation that is opposed to the amendment of MP Aleksandar Martinovic, because he is not. Since it's all unnecessary and it's expected that we're all doing unnecessary things in this room, I'm going to add one unnecessary thing. So, since I first submitted the amendment on October 6th at 4:17 p.m., I asked the MPs if they wanted me to withdraw the amendment, because I don't care what amendment was adopted, and I asked what kind of help any of us could ask for to change a bad law that was overlooked and a certain ignorance of the promoters sent here without provisions concerning graduates and Ph.D. students. Since everything we have heard here has to be considered a debate in particular, then I will accept that all the topics launched by MP Aleksandar Martinovic can be started by the rest of us, since we can. If it's a practice, if there's anything we've heard, then it's for everything. As for one, it's for all. The amendment that I think has been missed to mention is the amendment I asked Mr. Mark Djurisic if another amendment is identical in the text, all of which is unnecessary. Why? Your right is legal, it's not very legitimate, especially not legitimate if it's said - I didn't submit the amendment. Under the Constitution, only the MP can submit an amendment and vote only on the MP, not a political break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3911	Thank you. The word is Alexander Martinovic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3912	It's possible I wasn't clear enough. It is the right of counterpart Comic to submit an amendment and to withdraw it and to decide for herself when to do so, but this is not about it. This is about the amendment the government accepted and the amendment submitted by Col. Comic is not identical. That's the essence of our debate, and not you and I have submitted an identical amendment, so let's agree on who's going to withdraw to remain just one amendment. So we're not at the market and the amendments aren't the subject of trade and we have nothing to discuss. The amendment I made in front of the SNS parliamentary group is not necessarily identical with the amendment by Mrs. Comic. There's a very simple thing. We believe, and the government has accepted our argument, that our amendment is more in spirit with the bill's proposal, and what is also very important, is that it corresponds more to the rights of the students themselves, because then the colleges won't be able to assess which doctorates will meet, which they don't, whose dissertation requires years of work. They're all the same. By law, we even them all. It's the same legal regime for all students, primary, master's and doctoral studies. We're not stuck, so continue - if doctoral dissertation etc. That's what you have, and that's what you should have said. So we're not the ones who agreed to give up two amendments that are the same. No, I don't. The amendments are different. They are similar, but they are fundamentally different from each other, because we feel it is our legitimate right to have that attitude.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3913	Time, my colleague Maritnović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3914	Here, I conclude, that this amendment that the government has accepted is more appropriate to students' rights than to your amendment, nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3915	Thank you. People's MP Gordana Komic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3916	Thank you. Everything would make sense, Chairman, if anyone here had mentioned that I had against something that your amendment has adopted. On the contrary. So that's what the replicas are about. What do you make things up without need? It would all make sense if I ever claimed that my amendment was identical, but I didn't. So you unnecessarily invent, but completely unnecessary, since it is my announcement in the principle debate that I said – I don't care whose amendment is accepted. It's a question of style. You like, that is, the chairman of sorry, the MP likes to invent because it gives him a rhetorical rhythm of speech. But it's not true. Then you can't wait for approval from someone who understands you're giving facts that don't stand. Except my amendment isn't in the search at all, it will be now. Right now we're talking about an amendment that has become an integral part of the law. I've always had a dilemma about whether or not that amendment is something that can be discussed? He became an integral part of the bill, because both committees and the promoter accepted it. So, that amendment doesn't exist, I mean, the member on whom the amendment was submitted. So the question is even further, but it's completely unnecessary for you to try and invent claims that have never been made, nor will they be. I am pleased that one bad proposal from the government has been corrected by the joint efforts of all MPs and nothing more and nothing less.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3917	The word has Aleksandar Martinovic, right to replication, and we end up with replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3918	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will not give up proving the truth, because I will not allow the MP group of SNS to be a resolute minister and the Government of the Republic of Serbia to be a punching bag when one likes it. So the amendments aren't the same. What you said is logically contradictory – let's agree on who to withdraw the amendment, and the amendments are not the same. How do we make a deal? You submitted an amendment with one containing October 6th. I submitted an amendment with a second content on October 10th. We believe our amendment is more in line with students' rights. The government accepted our argument and your amendment refused. Your amendment has not been rejected, nor your colleagues Mark Milenkovic, I do not see all these MPs now, because I am the applicant of the amendment, so the government wants me to come out and show how important I am politically, so all the other amendments will refuse. No, I don't. My amendment is fundamentally different from your amendment and that is why the government has not accepted it. If the two amendments are fundamentally different, contentally different from each other, we can't agree on who to withdraw a few amendments, so we only have one amendment that's the same with that other amendment that's been withdrawn. So what you're saying, Mrs. Komic, is simply contradictory, it's illogical, it doesn't make sense. You are trying to deceive the citizens of Serbia as you submitted an amendment on 6 October that is the same as mine. I filed October 10th. Well, then, let's make a deal on who to pull a few amendments, and then both amendments are the same. They're not the same. Our amendment is better. I say that not because I wrote it, but because I think the government did well to introduce and accept the idea of the same identical legal regime for all students of basic, master's and doctoral studies.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3919	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3920	I have to disprove what my previous colleague used to say for the sake of the truth. Ten amendments not accepted by the Government are not accepted with the following explanation – the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the amendment to Article 1 has been accepted. The bill submitted by the MP, Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. It is not said that this amendment that you have submitted is better, more meaningful, more comprehensive. I don't know what's meant. But the key question today, which I asked at the outset, which I had not yet received an answer to, was this same amendment two years ago, and this same majority refused and the government in which most of the same members, not the same minister, however, rejected the amendment. Well, what words did you use at the government, Minister, when you convinced your colleagues to accept amendments now the same ones they refused two years ago? What were those words, or was it only important that the applicant of the amendment was a colleague of Martinovic? That's what we're polluting here. Is that what if two years ago opposition MPs proposed extending these deadlines, the government then refused, and now adopts, is that only because it was proposed by someone other than the ruling coalition MPs? We've been asking that all morning and we can't get an answer, and then we're haters, and I don't know what. No, if we're all equal here and we all have the right to arguments, and I want to hear -- what's wrong with arguments two years ago that the same ministers in the government didn't accept two years ago, and now they accept? It's no problem. I don't see any other argument, except that the promoter is Mr. Martinovic. This argument that you've given suggests that all of our amendments are essentially the same and they are not the same and identical, they're not identical, of course, but they're essentially the same, and this government could have defined themselves as someone else and thus shows us that it respects the opinion of the opposition MPs, but not you've defined yourself for this one, and that's your right, but it's our right to criticise it, that we're saying it's wrong and that we're also talking to the citizens who are interested, and we respect their arguments, and here we're proposing amendments. Everyone has the right to propose an amendment and vote and to define it one way or another. All I ever wanted to know was how does that change of mind come about? How was something unacceptable two years ago, and now it's being accepted? And, how much, in the end line, since this is often an argument, it costs the citizens of Serbia, because today we are discussing here for three hours an amendment that has become part of the law, which we won't even plead on, and two years ago it's not a good enough amendment and it couldn't be accepted? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3921	The word has the People's MP Aleksandar Martinovic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3922	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, there's one song, if I'm not mistaken, the Dirty Theatre "Hero Street" and I think most opposition MPs want to be heroes and now the torment is alive why the amendment of the SNS MPs has been accepted and some of their amendments that, by the way, are not identical in shape or in content with the amendment that has been accepted. Please colleagues from the Gallery and all students, forget that there is me, forget that there are my colleagues, take these from across the street for your heroes. I don't mind, but that's not the point of this debate. The essence of the debate is in the reasoning that the Government has made not accept amendments from other colleagues because my amendment has been accepted, not because their amendments are identical to mine, but because the amendment that the Government has accepted is better for students than all other amendments. That's the essence of the whole story. One more thing to point out, there were attacks on the Minister and on the Ministry of RES and on the Government of the Republic of Serbia -- why two years ago you're not something, and now you are? It's been two years. Two years ago, those deadlines, as they say, were still in progress, were maintained, were alive. Student life, university life is something that is dynamic, something that changes, and it is best shown to you by Professor Marko Atlagic. In these two years, 12,000 students, whom we failed to extend the deadline two years ago, were able to complete their studies. So that had an effect. A continuous extension of the deadlines can be detimulative to the students. (Saša Radulovic, from town: Two thirty five, two thirty eight, two forty. We have an idea. I hope the minister agrees with us. We have an idea that with this extension of a year we encourage students to sit down, to warm up the chair, to complete basic studies, to complete their master's work, to complete their doctoral dissertations and to become graduate lawyers, economists, physicists, mathematicians, masters, doctors.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3923	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3924	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 106, paragraph 3. – during the speech of the MPs or other participants in the search, it is not allowed to throw, or interfere with the speakers in any other way, as well as any other procedure that endangers freedom of speech. For this, Articles 108 and 109 are provided for sanctions. I ask you, Mr. Chairman, this is not the first time that "they've never had enough" of the parliamentary group, as SNS MPs or those who support the government say, to hear unarticulated screams. I don't know if anyone's trying to collect that American tax or not, so someone's hurting, so it's embarrassing, I'm not getting into it, but I'm asking you to apply these sanctions to members 108 and 109 and about Article 106 to calm your colleague down. I just don't know what's wrong with him today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3925	I understand fellow MPs when in direct discussion, exchange of political views, the heat of political struggles exchange mutually and tossing, and a little harder words, but I don't understand when someone who looks on the side throws. I don't even blame that, because in the absence of substance, someone's looking for form. That seems to be the answer to your question. The word is made by the People's MP Ljubinko Rakonjac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3926	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we will support this amendment by Mr Martinovic, who has become an integral part of the law and which essentially reflects everything we have proposed from the SPS parliamentary group, which is what is best for students, magistrates and PhDs. What I would like to say now is, and also to take advantage of the opportunity while Mr. Minister is here, to point out some discrepancies that might come into line with the Law on Higher Education and the Law on Scientific Research Action. It's not some crucial or big thing that interferes with the work of higher-school institutions or institutes, but it seems to me to be a bit of a illogicality. The National Council for Higher Education, under the Law on Higher Education, is elected by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, while the National Council for Science and Technological Development is elected by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It simply stands for me as some non-compliance that needs to be brought into line in the coming period. Also, the governing authorities of the higher school institution are a council of 17 members, of which two-thirds of the members make up people from the house and one-third of the people on the side. The management body of the institute is a committee that makes up seven members and four members are on the side, and three members are from the house. This disproportion with higher education institutions and institutes is not logical for me, and this should in some way be corrected, even if this number of members of the Management Board from the Institute is increased. It used to be that number of members 1:4-4. I think it's better for the functioning of the institute, because the members themselves who are from the house know best what to do on certain issues. Also, in the acts on the evaluation of scientific and research results of work, in the election of scientific titles, as one of the problems arises in the election of a scientific advisor or senior research associate, that mentorship is sought, and the Higher Education Act itself does not allow people from the Institute to be mentors. So it all depends on the goodwill of a high school institution or on the personal relationships of the people of the university, the institute, whether they will be mentors or commentators for some scientific dissertation. Therefore, I think it should also be included in the Law on Higher Education, as an obligation for people from the Institute to be mentors of doctoral dissertation or master's work. So much for now, these are just some details, which should be brought into line in these two laws. The minister will surely work in the coming period to reform higher education and scientific and research activities, and these things will certainly be removed. I believe in it and I believe in it. Also, let me just say again that we will support this Law on Higher Education and Amendments submitted by Martinovic, who became an integral part of the law, in the day for the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3927	The word has been made by MP Ratko Jankov, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3928	Thank you very much. I just wanted to say that Article 106 is point one again about the essence of the agenda, we should have talked about the amendments. There's a lot that's wrong with the Higher Education Act, we could talk about it for hours, but if we're going to talk about the agenda now, then I'd like to stick to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3929	I've heard very little of you. As far as I understand it, you think the MPs are too widely interpreting amendments and discussing amendments and additions to the law? Am I right?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3930	You're right. So, simple intervention that you as chairman should channel on the basis of a Regulation that we get so many pucks around, that we don't stick to it. So, one of the things within the Regulation, if you...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3931	My colleague, I still don't think there's been any injuries to the Rules of Procedure. You know, your right... (Tatyana Macura, from the scene: why are you interrupting him? ) For the second time he got the word, to answer me louder since we didn’t hear him well, he didn’t get a second right to harm the Rules of Procedure. (Tatyana Macura, from the place: yes, you asked him... No, I asked him if I understood him properly and don't tell me what I was doing anymore. I know exactly what I'm doing. (Saša Radulovic, from town: I doubt it. ( ) Fellows who are more important than the essence confirm the lack of political attitude and programme. (Saša Radulovic, from the post: Stick to the Rules of Procedure. I answer to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Radulovic, do you want me to be even more direct? And then, because of everything you're trying to show us that we're ignorant, that we don't know what this is about, that we don't know the agenda. (Saša Radulovic, from the post: Stick to the Rules of Procedure. That's all, nothing more. You will not teach us how to conduct a session of the National Assembly. You don't know what relationships are between MPs, MPs' groups, you don't know what a political struggle is because you're not a political party, I don't understand why you're defending another political party. It is a lack of knowledge of the political programme and leave parliament to live by the Rules of Procedure which it itself has made and by the rules that are older than my mandate and yours. You will not change parliamentaryism in Serbia. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: I don't mean anything, just stick to the Rules of Procedure. ) Do you feel that I have broken the Rules of Procedure and you are asking that in the day of the vote we make a statement about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Saša Radulovic, from the place: Of course, it is obvious. (Nenad Christmas, from the place: Don't give us a lecture.) What? (Saša Radulovic, from the place: Lectures are not necessary. I'm responding to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, which your colleague gave me. I have the right to answer. You don't want to give it to me? Well, you won't teach us. I tell you again, you will not teach us and let the MPs deliver their views on the amendments and on the law and on their political views. Learn that once. This is where politics is run, among other things. Here you go, colleague Radulovic. Ask for the Rules of Procedure. What now, you don't want to do business? The word has been made by the People's MP Bozovic. (Vladimir Djuric, from the post: Here's the Business, what's the problem? First, keeping the Rules of Procedure doesn't mean you're looking for a word. (Vladimir Đurić:, from the place Don't yell at us here anymore. The word is sought... (Vladimir Djuric, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure, I asked for a word. I pressed the key. You're not. (Vladimir Djuric, from the place: Yes. You're not. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: Don't tell the truth, you have no right. Is your key pressed now? (Vladimir Djuric, from the place: Yes, I pressed the key. Is your key pressed now? (Vladimir Curic, from the place: He was. ) (Saša Radulovic, from the place: He asked for a word. Don't act naive. The ambassador has checked in. If you want me to read the Rules of Procedure to you about where you're breaking it now, is that what you want? While I was answering, you threw it to me and then you said I was giving you a lecture. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: Do you want me to show you what the key looks like? Here you are and now you're throwing while I'm answering. I'm listening. (Saša Radulovic, from the post: He asked for a word. Don't look. Mr. Radulovic has to ask for it to get his word. (Saša Radulovic, from the post: He asked for a word. Like when I don't see him in the electronic system. (Saša Radulovic, from the post: He asked for a word. Don't deceive the citizens. I do not deceive citizens, you do, Mr. Radulovic. And if you want to tell me I'm lying, say it so nice. Say I'm lying. There's an electronic application for word... (Saša Radulovic, from the place: What you're saying is not true. The ambassador has checked in. Where did he sign up? Virtually? Come and take a look? Don't you believe it? The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3932	Thank you. By amendment, I use the time of the parliamentary group. What's important, ladies and gentlemen, is that we lower our passions because there's a very important question ahead of us. I don't want us to end this discussion the way we started it who proposed an amendment that became an integral part of the amendments and the addition of the law. Just to make one thing clear to everyone, to those who support Mr. Martinovic's amendment, it is not disputed, it has become an integral part of this proposal. We'll vote for him, of course. Dispute is that it is constantly outlining whose amendment it is. Someone ominous or malicious would say that Mr. Martinovic might have prescribed it from Zarko Obradovic, because it is identical in the point, but since I am not being maliced, I will not say it, but let's move on to the other amendments that will be voted on. This will not be voted upon after it has become an integral part of the amendment and addition of the law. Let's talk about other amendments, there are other amendments. I am ashamed that this is how it communicates in the Serbian Parliament. In this way, dignity is humiliated not only in front of guests who are on the balcony today, but in front of citizens of Serbia who are on direct transmission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3933	The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3934	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As an authorised representative of the SPS and a member of the Committee on the Education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, I must say that I am surprised at the part of the presentation of some fellow MPs related to this amendment, and at all to the proposal for amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education. I don't know if that's already said, but if it's said I apologize in advance, and if I don't want the public to know that all the members of the Committee have supported the government's proposal to accept one amendment without the rest being accepted for various reasons. And I, as one of the amendment's promoters, who was rejected, one of the seven members of the SPS who proposed the amendment, voted in favour of the government's proposal, voted in favour of the amendment of counterpart Martinovic, because I am more concerned with the essence of the other SPS colleagues, more important than the form. It is important that the government adopt an amendment that gives the possibility for students of postgraduate and doctoral studies to finish the job. It doesn't matter to us whether we mention the Miko amendment promoters or anyone else. The amendment is good, it should be accepted. We all voted in favour of it on the Committee, and so do I, on behalf of our parliamentary group, even though the government itself, in response to our amendment, says that it is essentially the same, but that it is not in line with the unique methodological rules for making a memo, and we respect that. It is important that the amendment is made and it is important that students will be able to continue, or finish their studies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3935	The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3936	I thank the chairman. For me, a truly amazing thing is happening in these few hours of debate, which is that we have a representative of the motion, a representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the image of Mr. Minister and a representative of the amendment who has become an integral part of the government's proposal, and that they are doing the opposite work. So, the government representative who adopted the amendment and the amendment that became an integral part of this act, which we need to discuss, is absolutely not being declared, absolutely does not explain what the government did and what it, by the logic of the matter, was to defend at the cabinet session at which this amendment was adopted. On the other hand, we have a representative of the majority, i.e. the amendment that has been adopted and which, on behalf of the Government, whose member is not, explains why the Government has accepted its amendment. I don't understand how it could have come to this change of character. Please, Minister, after two and a half hours of discussion, please speak to us and explain to us, after two and a half hours, how you defended this amendment to have the government adopt it, and leaving the day before yesterday, from the same place, after a full-day debate, you did not make a statement that you were wrong when you discriminatoryly directed us, the MPs. I really ask you, right now, talk to me after two and a half hours, and I'm asking you, because I really expect you to finally, to confirm or deny the information that I've heard off the record this morning, but I want to hear an official response -- is it true that you didn't have enough time to deal with this bill more thoroughly, or by amending the law, and that's why you so damaged and discriminatoryly directed it to us, the MPs, because in the ministry of which you're an elder, there's an initiative for a whole new law on higher education that wants the full centralisation of higher education by actually shutting down all universities, and setting up a centralized university of Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3937	I would like to thank my colleague, Marinika. Just so you know, the minister is entitled to the amendment only once to report for two minutes, so he probably wants his presentation at the end of the discussion to give. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3938	This in criminal law, if I'm not mistaken, is called extortion. Say it, say it, defend yourself, not defend yourself. Which minister do you defend yourself from? To defend yourself against the SNS parliamentary group that submitted the amendment? To defend yourself against your own government, which the amendment has accepted? Well, that's pointless. I've never seen more nonsense in my life. So you defend yourselves, so say, so why don't you keep your mouth shut, so if you'll excuse me, have you committed some crime for accepting the SNS amendment? Are you some political villain now because you think our amendment is better than everyone else? Well, of course not. I just want to tell my colleagues across the street, it's your right to love this government, not like, some ministers in it, the Prime Minister, to make up any kind of affairs every day, to accuse people of being hit by lightning, because a helicopter fell, that's your political right. For me, it's immoral, not human, but you have this political right. But I won't allow it, and it won't be your last to have these people from the government when they get here be bags to hit you, who ruined this country. This is where you talk about the extension of deadlines, so you want me to list 50 laws from 2008 to 2012, when you've been extending deadlines every year? So did you extend your driver's license deadlines, how many times? Did you extend the deadlines for issuing passports? What do we do with that? And now the Minister of Education comes, a man decent, cultural, waiting to get the right to speak for two minutes, to defend himself from someone? He says, "Why don't you defend the amendment?" Neither the amendment attacks nor the amendment needs to defend itself. The amendment is either accepted or not accepted. The amendment is voted or not voted, and there is a very simple matter. And this looks like, I'm sorry, it's a bit of a street jargon now, she said. So this morning I heard the minister was silent because someone had an idea to build one single university in Serbia. It's the same story, if you remember Mr. Minister, someone has some dark idea, I guess Marko Atlagic, who teaches in Kosovo Mitrovica to integrate the University of Kosovo Mitrovica into the educational system so-called. The Republic of Kosovo. Now watch out, my fellow SNS colleagues, don't fall for this provocation. What do they want? Every day they come to the congregation with a new lie, and now I need it from day to day to defend against something that is simply not true. Tomorrow you will come to the Assembly – you know I heard that Alexander Vukic killed a man, so he did not come to the Assembly. What are you going to say about that? And the day after tomorrow, I heard that the plane fell by the order of the Secretary of Defense, and now I need everyone from the SNS every day to climb out of the navels to prove something that isn't true. We're not going to fall for that. If you thought these people were going to sit here, keep quiet and suffer the insults and lies you bring to the expense of the SNS and the Ministers of Government, we will not allow you to do so, so this session will last for three days, but it will not be your last. It cannot be the last word of those who have ruined Serbia, those who have brought to the end both the RS government and us from the SNS parliamentary group that we must even extend the deadlines. Who found himself giving us lectures? You're Mrs. Tepic, if I'm not mistaken, you were the regional secretary. What were your colleagues doing, the regional secretaries, through whom are there funds for new technologies, through development funds, through the Youth Training Fund? How did you get the money out? How did people pay you back the money you gave them to develop new technologies? In toothbrushes, in coffins, in wine. You want to give us lectures? You won't. The Serbian Progressive Party will not allow that. We're trying to get this country out of the ambis, get high education out of the ambis. What you knew and knew, you showed, but it can't be your last. It cannot be the last of those who have led the state to the brink of bankruptcy and destruction, who have ruined our higher education. (Balsa Bozovic, from the post: It has nothing to do with the topic of the agenda. ) It has everything to do with the subject of the agenda. The state was not created yesterday, and these problems in higher education were not created yesterday, and the SNS did not ultimately pass the Higher Education Act, and it is not our fault that higher education institutions in Serbia were not ready to implement the Bologna principles in the higher education system. That's what some other governments have done, the governments you've been sitting in. Now they're coming to us for the bill that you signed, and that's the real truth, and these people up there need to know. That's what all students need to know. The easiest thing to do now is take aim at Mladen Sarčević – e, you Mladen Sarčević, it's your fault we're extending deadlines, it's your fault that the amendment there is accepted by that villain, Alexander Martinović, and it's not mine, it's your fault we're not doing well with this or that college. It's the easiest, but it's not true, and we're going to defend and support the efforts to improve our education system. This was about why the minister was allegedly not defended when a principled debate was being held. The man told you nicely – changes to the Law on Higher Education are on the agenda. What were you talking about? About the toilets in the elementary schools, about the textbooks, you respected the minister, and to remind you, and let these colleagues from the gallery hear it. Minister Sarčević, you knew, Mr. Minister, it was your fault for introducing the textbook market in Serbia. Well, that's what they did. They introduced a system to teach history in one class in the same school by one textbook, in the second grade by second class, in the third grade by the third textbook. It's their genius ideas. Who's to blame? Mladen Sarčević? Well, it won't be. It's your fault. You, you, you from DS, from LSV, all in a row. It's all your fault. The DSS. At what time was the Law on Higher Education adopted? Who was the Minister of Education? Young Charcevic or someone else? Don't pretend to be naive and now we all need to start suffering from collective amnesia. All the problems have started since the time when the Prime Minister became Alexander Vucic, and Minister of Education Mladen Sarcevic. Well, it won't be. These problems last for years, not to say for decades. We are now trying to step by step of this problem to solve, but we will not be silent when lessons about what is wrong and what is wrong with the laws are kept by those who have ruined everything that was under their hands.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3939	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. (Balša Bozovic, from town: Replica. Take it easy, I got you fellow MPs, one good news. In accordance with Article 27 and Article 87(2) and (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18 hours, for the need for the National Assembly to pass the act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The right to replica the first National MP, Marinika Tepic, and later the MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3940	Thank you, Chairman. Although it is not a topic on the agenda, I am extremely proud of the period when I was the regional secretary for sports and youth, which your Minister, Mr. Udovic, spoke before you on several occasions and applauded the work of the secretariats, when the new Sport Act was adopted. So, so much for the subject. But in the previous presentation, we have just heard again what I have previously criticised, which is that a representative of the legislative authority, or parliamentary majority, defends something adopted by the government, whose representative sits here before us and can be involved at any moment to speak to the MPs, and he does not. So, we have a full role replacement. That was my question – why does someone keep on behalf of the Minister and on behalf of the Government here say that the government did, and we cannot hear firsthand from the minister, who is here a representative of the Government, how did this happen and what actually happened? As for the hard words, and we've heard a lot of them here today, I totally understand that the terms like "link", "baraque fire", so we heard the terms "genocide", even when you talked and mentioned pharmaceutical institutions, are not foreign to you, only that their place is in some other documents, not when we discuss higher education. Indeed, I would also ask the chairman to pay a little more attention to the vocabulary, because genocide is not a word and is not a term and does not mean that he can be easily managed and spoken, especially here in the highest home. Of course, at least on the LSV side, knowing the weight of what genocide means, I recommend that colleagues do not play and spin such hard words for topics and points of the agenda that do not like it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3941	Replica, MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3942	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, therefore, of course Mr. Sarcevic is not personally responsible for this situation in education, especially in higher education, which is on the agenda today, but of course the political government, which is responsible for this state of higher education in the fifth year of office. In the fifth year of the term of office, I think it's something that really represents your lack of understanding of this matter. (Alexander Martinovic, from the scene: And are you responsible for something? And is DS responsible for something? Are you responsible for something? () Since a colleague from across the street, who has been fighting with himself all day today, apparently delighted that the amendment had been adopted by the government, voted by every member of the Education Committee, I do not know what the problem is to move on? It's okay, every point, every point is identical, commad, pardoned, identical to the order that both the SPS colleagues and colleagues from other parliamentary groups have submitted, and I congratulate everyone who submitted this amendment and Gordani Komic, who may have had in one part of the sentence perhaps the intention she considered more meaningful than the previous speaker's intention. In any case, I think it is completely inappropriate to criticise the opposition because the Education Strategy is being adopted in 2012. Some fellow MPs wrote here. So, the strategy is being adopted in 2012, the prime minister supported. For the fifth year, don't put it into action, not Mr. Sarcevic, here we have Verbic before him, so four ministers. This is the government's policy responsible for this situation in education and higher education and science. I think it's very important to get it under control. The opposition can't keep being... You act like you're not in power and it's totally insane behavior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3943	You're bringing the end, pal. For the sake of truth, I have no desire to meddle in the political part of the fight, my colleague Bozovic, but you know for a fact what the procedure in the Serbian Parliament for amendments in the same text looks like and that they are being held in a united debate, that even once they are being voted on, and not on every single one. Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3944	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm going to say for some who seem to not hear well that the amendment the government has accepted is not identical with the amendments the government has rejected. And now I ask, on behalf of the SNS parliamentary group, you who have never been in power, who are not responsible for anything that you haven't ruined, who's done everything great since 2000, whose personnel were, here, just to stay in the field of education, all those geniuses like Gusa Knezevic, like Serbia's Turajlic, like Slobodan Vuksanovic? Whose frames were those? Who put this problem in the Serbian education system – both in primary schools and in secondary schools and in the area of higher education? A wolf? Mladen Sarčević? Marco Atlagic? Or someone else? It's not true that you're not responsible for anything. You are the most responsible for the situation in which Serbia is present today, and also for the situation in which our higher education lies, because you have, first of all, introduced this principle and you have an obligation to implement it until the end. You've never done that before. The Higher Education Act was passed, that Serbian citizens know, in 2005. What was Alexander Vukic responsible for in 2005? Because the Law on Higher Education was passed? Because the extended deadlines for the completion of basic, master's and doctoral studies have been constant since 2005 and so on. I'm not going to talk about basic and secondary problems right now because we don't have enough time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3945	You're bringing the end, my colleague Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3946	The basic reason why higher education in Serbia today is in such a difficult situation, I will not tell the chaotic, but rather difficult and delicate, is the legacy of all governments from 2000 to 2012, and when it comes to higher education in Vojvodina, practically until several months ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3947	Thank you. Mr. Zivkovic, on what grounds? (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: The same one you gave the previous speaker. ) Mr. Zivkovic, his amendment has been mentioned. All fellow MPs spoke about the applicant for the amendment. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Do you recognize whose amendment it is? I guess I know what the amendment is. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Is it mentioned by name and last name? Well, just one amendment... (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Is it mentioned by name and last name? Mr. Zivkovic, don't say that. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Is it mentioned by name and last name? ) It is mentioned by name and last name. So, before the debate began, it was read – The First Amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Aleksandar Martinović You have no right to a replica. [[Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: What does this have to do with the replica?]] The word is by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3948	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I'm surprised we didn't bring an end to this discussion, but I answered because dozens of students came to me, thanked everyone, that we went out to meet them and gave them one well-intentioned note. They say none of us will give up because the amendment of counterpart Martinovic was accepted, but the professor that you know would also not have given up if any amendment had been accepted. So we've arranged something that we came here for. We did one good thing for those students and let's move on now and get this over with. We have a lot of each other to blame. You and we both, but what happened in education is a job that we have to finish no matter who the minister is, no matter who the Prime Minister is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3949	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Jasmina Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3950	Thank you. I'd like to resolve some of the two topics that we're practically talking about. Can I ask you to tell me how much time I have?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3951	You have 19 minutes and 31 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3952	All right. Thank you. So, we're talking about two topics today. One topic is the extension of the deadline for students of all levels of study, we have introduced this amendment in the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education and students of Master's and Doctoral Studies, which are enrolled in the old or exercise one's right under the regulations that were in force before the entry into force of this law. The extension in itself is very problematic, because this is the fifth extension. It practically speaks of a system that has existed for ten years and has been extending this deadline for ten years, not being able to solve the key problem. I have to say it's even identifying this problem, because we still have an analysis of the problem that we don't have. So we don't have measured data, so we don't know what damage we're doing, so we don't know what damage we don't do by adopting or rejecting these amendments, or this law in general, because the amendment has already become an integral part of the bill. So that's one topic. It's supposed to be the same rule for everyone. So if the deadline is extended to the students of basic studies, it should also be extended to the students of master and doctoral studies, because there is no other explanation. So far, it has always been extended to everyone, therefore, the reason to be extended, and this time, so in 2008 and 2014, in 2012, every two years, as it has been extended. What's important is when it comes to an analysis that, apart from knowing we don't have, we have some data, however, these data are not reliable data. We can't say they're quite accurate. We can't even say that we have them complete, but we know one thing, I would ask the minister, I know that the time is short, after he has time to respond to these comments, if he can tell us. We know that the National Council for Higher Education has given an explanation why no amendment should be adopted on extending the deadline for students of master and doctoral studies. We haven't heard from him, and since we know that, it would be good to hear it. If anything else, we know at least one more piece of information on which we're not making that decision, because you've made the opposite decision, the one the National Council has made. You didn't do it their way, you did it yesterday and you explained it, you said you couldn't do it, but you expect it from the MPs. The MPs, of course, did. So they proposed an amendment. It is important that we know exactly what we have been deaf about when we have not acted on the suggestions and recommendations of the National Council for Higher Education. It hopes that all MPs agree with this, and in particular the representatives of the promoters. The other problem we're facing, so this was one problem with the extension of the deadline, the other problem is that every extension so far has been timely. So we've extended the deadline multiple times, the reasons that they are, they've currently stayed at the previous point, at least my exposure. What's important now is that this is an extension of the deadline, if at all by the extension of the deadline can, not timely, the deadline expires on September 30th, and we are today in October 20th. The request to extend the deadline arrived on 4 October. So, we can't talk about a timely extension of the deadline, and by that we can't talk about an extension at all, the deadline is up. So what now? Question? Students who have lost the right to complete studies according to the old, students of all levels of study must either go to re-enlisting, or re-entering, so it would be by law. Either to re-enter the school year on some of the existing study programmes or to make this amendment, or to propose amendments and additions to the Law where these amendments have now become an integral part of the establishment of a return fact. Otherwise, we don't have a law that's in accordance with the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3953	Thank you. Just one question, do you want from the time of the parliamentary group or from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group? Please ask for a word first.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3954	What's important to me to add, since I've been doing high education for many years, looking for data, I can't keep everything in my head, looking for data, I've seen the thing I want to propose to the promoters now to change the site of the Ministry of Education. The site contains an older version of the law, an uncleaned version of the law, which states that students who have enrolled in master's studies can finish them by 2013/14, do not include any subsequent amendments and additions to the law. It's very important, let's say, I was surprised, in order to check out what was a refined version, and I realized that I was on a version that was without two or three, without changing and supplementing the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3955	Just one more time, Col. Nikolic, have you been from the time of the parliamentary group or from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3956	From an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3957	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradović, Miletić Mihajlović, Djordje Milicevic, Prof. Dr. Snezana Bogosavljevic Bošković, Stefana Miladinović, Dr. Ljubinko Rakonjac and Dr. Danica Bukvic. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3958	The Honorable Chairman, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is very pleased that the amendment we have discussed so far has been accepted, although our amendment was absolutely proposed in the same text with certain finesse in the methodology, as it is said, something is different, which was not an essential part of the amendment, or the text itself, but we will not go into it. It is very important that today we have completed a very important job that has passed this law on amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education, i.e. that we will bring this to an end and we hope that it will be of benefit to students in both primary and post-graduate studies. So, those who need to master and doctor and, of course, in favour of all of Serbia. I think that without using us, we're too conflicting over the issues that we're essentially agreeing on, and I think we should be expedient and in work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3959	Thank you. Members of the 1st Amendment were submitted to the same text by MPs Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic, Mr. Jasmina Nikolic and together by Dr. Ivan Bauer, Dr. Milorad Mijatović, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković and Dr. Predrag Jelenković. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Mr Marko Milenkovic to the same text. Does anyone want a word? The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3960	The amendment is essentially the same as the one that adopted the government. To make my contribution to faster work, I withdraw my amendment, because the goal has already been achieved by what the government has adopted, with all the objections to methodology, in a way, in what is not good in other members. I think this way I'm helping to get the debate back on track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3961	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's Messenger Ratko Jankov.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3962	Thank you very much. I actually just wanted to underline with this amendment that if we want to solve the problem, that, as I was saying and the day before, we should do certain mechanisms like the number of students that are covered, the various phases that they've reached, so I'm just cartoonally, if we don't intend to accept these additional conditions that some of our amendments are talking about, let's immediately extend them to 2025-2026, because in the same way, we're going to talk again in the same way when we don't have the right elements. So that's the essence of my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3963	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3964	I am willing to accept this proposal in 2025-2026, and I will certainly vote for it, because I have made sure that there has never been enough in the parliamentary group, except for gossipers, doorkeepers and fortune tellers, there is one talented former assistant minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3965	Thank you. Right on the line, MP Ratko Jacob. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3966	I really think this is beneath every level of dignity of anything. I am trying very hard to make a contribution for students, because of Serbia, etc.. I think I said enough when I said it couldn't be extended for two years, two more and two more, and we never really saw why we went on for the first time. So this is below level. I won't answer. This is embarrassing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3967	According to the amendment, the word is Marian Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3968	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is me, the chairman, turning down the time, I don't know what my colleague has identified himself as. I was only willing to accept that 10-year term. Since there are intellectual lumps here... (Saša Radulovic, from the post: You are really unable to hold a session. Don't make a fuss. What does this look like? When there are intellectual grams of which I expected to learn something and when they propose one such solution to extend it to 2025-2026, since it comes from people who have taken an important state position, I am willing to learn something here. That transfer of knowledge that was directed towards me was accepted by me. Since there are these academic gromads here that have studied for 12, 13 years, it means two years that the condition until retirement, I realized that a colleague has a pragmatic proposal and that he wants his MP group never had enough, some graduates, that they don't do it on the Internet anymore, so geologists become forensics, so the returnees become some coaches, wagons, teachers, etc. I understood that. I understood that their school was going a little weaker, that they were going around school more than they were going to school, that they were going online. That's why I thought I'd give them a reasonable deadline, and that's why I'd vote for such a proposal to extend that deadline until 2026. I don't know why my colleague's mad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3969	When he discusses the amendment, of course I can't say I didn't recognize the subject of the amendment, it's impossible. The word is Ratko Jankov.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3970	I'm glad the president started the first sentence I wanted to start. You won't believe this amendment comes under my name. How do you think I didn't recognize myself? That's one of the interesting things, if you'd like to learn something. When you're talking, and it's not supposed to work, completely with a stop, I can say for myself it's inappropriate, I'm ashamed of what I'm saying, I graduated at 21.5 years, in three-and-a-half years since I started my studies I've doctored as one of the very rare Yugoslavs who doctored before he went into the army, with 26. I'm proud of it. Don't, for God's sake, talk about it. This is ugly and what I said, but don't muddle everything you catch, please don't muddle, it's really a shame.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3971	According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3972	Articles 106 and 107. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of 106 and 107 in particular, the dignity of the National Assembly should be respected. Here, I didn't graduate as a minor, I didn't even get a Ph.D. as an old minor. I didn't muddle anything. I didn't propose a 10-year term, he suggested a colleague. If someone's got something going on, it's a colleague, not me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3973	The word is made by MP Marko Milenkovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3974	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it's less important this is 2025, 2026 and 2027. In any case, my amendment, too, was not accepted by the Government for the reason that, as explained above, the amendment of Aleksandr Martinovic was accepted. Basically my amendment was accepted, and now, as the government technically formulated and as it interpreted it, it's less important to me. In any case, we owe a lot of people who have worked on research projects and jobs for years, have come up with scientific papers that adorn or should adorn doctoral dissertation, to a lesser extent master's work, then, mainly because of the complexity of the procedures, miss deadlines for the completion of the study. Such students are relatively many, especially those in the final stage of workmaking, so that an extension of two years has been imposed as a logical and correct solution. It's a shame, Mr. Minister, that you gave in to the pressure of the memo, as you said, of the National Council of Higher Education, especially if you have in mind the correctness of the intention of equating all students, then, and the final result and all the positive effects of the extension of the deadline to the magistrates and doctors, but also the fact of who is the president of the National Council. Dr Vojislav Seselj told you in principle that the book "Cameléon", whose name stands as a symbol, as a synonym of his character and works, was written about the president of the council, Dejan Popovic. In the past, in the future legal civilization, it is scandalous, it has not given him the right to be a higher authority than you and to lecture you on the lack of legal basis. However, you, as a proposing, should offer this solution on the two-year extension of master's and doctoral studies according to the old ones, and should be found in the text of the bill, precisely because of the existence of a good percentage of objective reasons for these students not to finish their studies. I mean all the scientific but administrative complexity of procedures until the completion of the final form of work, and then the new complexity, now administrative to the very defence of work and the acquisition of academic titles of master and doctor of science. In an explanation for the adoption of this law, by emergency procedure, you cited the reason for preventing harmful consequences for students, which will occur unless the proposed changes are adopted by the start of the school year. Although the school year has long begun, and this is not controversial, I believe that a more urgent procedure has been proposed to prevent strikes and protests, camping students in front of the government, all that marked the previous changes and additions to this Law on Higher Education. We have been reforming higher education for a decade by European standards and, as a paradox, we are still far from the end of the reform. We need fundamental amendments to the laws that will bring benefits to the long pathways of the educational higher education system. I know that a completely new proposal for a law on higher education works at the University of Belgrade, which should largely regulate higher education status in an adequate way. But what's going to happen in the end remains to be seen. For now, we remain on the announcement of amendments and procedures remains the government's emphasis on the announcements of the continuation of reforms, while there is still nothing since the adoption of concrete measures and detailed solutions. The education development strategy in Serbia was adopted in 2012, the 2015 Action Plan for its implementation, which is not at all relevant for preventing plagiarism. It is a particularly important segment of higher education and scientific work, the originality directly related to these final master's and doctoral works, over which detailed control should be carried out and any potential plagiarism prevented. Finally, it is not for us, gentlemen, to improve the quality of education that we need neither strategy nor action plans, it is a clean distraction of the public and the consumption of energy and people's money. We need a serious system law, we need its rigorous control and its implementation, so you can see how the system would soon get in line and start giving results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3975	Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3976	It is a good opportunity for me to put my position on behalf of the SRS on behalf of all amendments to Article 1. It's a bill of law. We are really going to meet in a strange situation, given that the legislator has adopted one amendment to Article 1 and that amendment has practically become an integral part of the bill's proposal and is not voted on in the voting day, but then there is one logical problem, because there are certainly 12 other amendments, if not more, similar or identical texts to be voted on and then there will be a dilemma among those who will vote against the amendment, because then they practically voted against something the government adopted and became an integral part of the bill's proposal. It's not the first time that's happened in this building, you know. It's an old practice, it's, if I may say, an old business trick that's actually being applied. I did not answer for it, but answered to point out the benefits of the amendment that Marko Milenkovic submitted on behalf of the SRS. It is obvious that a problem has arisen that needs to be solved and in search of how this problem should be solved has gone from the principle that everyone is satisfied. If you're watching these discussions, you'll see that everyone's happy, the students are satisfied, the parents are so happy, if they understand this operation, and the most satisfied professors at the state colleges, because this allows them to take a year more, on this basis, a little bit of money, and they love money. You know that yourself. If they didn't like money, they wouldn't be working on three or four colleges. And now, good students and parents have fought for teachers. If you don't mind, I'd like to read something you wrote, not you, but the promoter, in my bill. You see, the financial resources, which should be provided next year and those next year, reads like this. Support the work of the University of Belgrade for professors and their salaries of 6.7 billion dinars. So they can shoot down more, they have money. Social benefits a billion and 200. Then in Novi Sad, four billion and 600 get out of the Republic of Serbia's budget based on this change of law, and those in Kragujevac to a billion and 500 million, and there is not yet an end to the Index affair, and soon a new prison with a capacity of 400 users is being created. The Kragujevci will receive more on the basis of the 267m contribution. The University of Nis, two billion for wages, contributes to 340 million dinars. The University of Pristina, based in Kosovo's Mitrovica for salaries of billions and 500, contributes 270 million. The University of State in Novi Sad for salaries of 274 million, with a contribution of about 49 million more. The University of Art for Salaries 794 million, contributed 142. High schools for the salaries of billions and 720 million, and 308 million to contribute. Transfers to other authorities another 486 million. So this consent here doesn't need a fight over those amendments cost. So that's what it costs. Did this bill of law, which will be adopted, or did this amendment solve what is really the problem of our higher education? We haven't solved it. They're still gonna get their diplomas. When I say they're making a degree, I have to say that the system has done a bargaining. Why? We've moved on to the market economy. We made it possible for anyone certified by the ministry or the para-state body of the ministry to charge their lecture, their knowledge, to have the right to have a stamp and to print those diplomas. Did you see Zorana when she showed up at Tom's graduation? Bake like this, 40 centimeters big. A man graduated. So, at every corner today, you can secure a diploma. I was at the Vozdovac municipality three years ago, and we were recording some contributions in front of a school. The neighbors saw something happening, went out, asked – what is this here, I say – some school. Does anyone come in here, says - five years no one's come in. Wait – entrance exams, the one on the Internet. Let it go, it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3977	Ambassador, go back to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3978	I'm just talking about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3979	You've gone so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3980	I'm talking about the amendment, that graduations will be held in 2018, and the amendment applies to school 2017/18. A year. You'd better follow what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3981	I'm following fantastically, than you've gone so far compared to the basic text of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3982	I didn't make it to 2019. Only on 2017/18. School year. When it comes to students, it's about those who need to master.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3983	An amendment to Wartka Jankova.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3984	What?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3985	An amendment to Wartka Jankova.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3986	No, you didn't understand. I'm talking about Mark Milenkovic's amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3987	Who?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3988	That amendment is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3989	But we are on the amendment to Ratko Jankov.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3990	Marko Milenkovic spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3991	I know. He's the one who answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3992	It's an identical amendment, ma'am, completely identical. You didn't notice that?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3993	I know, but when his amendment comes, we'll talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3994	All amendments to Article 1 shall be covered. I told you that at first, but you didn't listen.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3995	Yeah, the main thing is that you were listening.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3996	I was talking...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3997	Now, you listen to me. So you're not really talking about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3998	All amendments concern the extension of opportunities to study people until 2018.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u3999	Yeah, but it's not a general debate. We can't talk about all the amendments in total.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4000	I don't know what you don't like about what I mentioned, what's the problem?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4001	I like everything, I just want to focus the discussion on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4002	What's the problem? Tell me, what's the problem?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4003	Tell you what, we're not having a dialogue, I'm running a session. Just tell me what the problem is.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4004	You want to let me talk about the amendment to Article 1?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4005	Just an amendment to Mr. Ratko Jankov's 1st. If you can, if you can't, my God.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4006	Do you see any difference between the amendment and the amendment of Mark Milenkovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4007	I can't let you do that when I don't have that amendment in front of me. We need to discuss a concrete amendment to lead the discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4008	So you're not letting me brag about the amendments?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4009	Not everyone, you can do this one. Here is the amendment of Ratko Jankov.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4010	Do you realize that I promote going to 2018 and not 2027?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4011	I understand everything, but it's not my role to argue with you right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4012	Did you hear me speak in 2027?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4013	25, 26, 26, 27.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4014	Did you hear me talk about it?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4015	No, I can't argue, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4016	I'm criticizing.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4017	I can't argue.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4018	You don't distinguish criticism from... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4019	Ambassador, I call you to courtesy, especially since today is 80 years since the first session in this House and the completion of this house and we should respect this house. When the amendment comes that you want to talk about, I'll remember where you left off. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MEP Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4020	An apostle, not a messenger.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4021	I'm sorry, I was confused by Ambassador Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4022	Thank you. My amendment had a goal, like everyone else, to come up with solutions that would allow the magistrates and doctors to end research and defence scientific thesis, since this was accepted in the amendment of Mr. Martinovic and the SNS, contained the essence of the same. I have no objection to the rejection of the proposal. We all went to the same goal, only our starting positions were different, or in different ways we arrived at the same goal. In particular, I would like to commend the members of the Committee on Education, the chairman of this committee and the minister who respected all the proposals of the opposition and incorporated them into a conclusion that would become an integral part of the law. It is important that this general consensus of MPs is seen by the students concerned as an incentive for society to end all their obligations in a new period and deserve the academic titles for which they apply. Then use acquired knowledge progressively and for the benefit of the same society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4023	Thank you. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic. The word is Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4024	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, fellow MPs, and if, in the government's explanation for not accepting our amendment, it was written that it was not accepted because the amendment of counterpart Martinovic was accepted, our amendment is not nearly the same. That's why it's not enough for us to explain. Namely, we asked for an extension of doctoral studies, only for two years. First of all, respecting the arguments made by your predecessor, Mr Verbić, who explained two years ago that the deadline for the completion of master's studies, which existed then in the law, is the school year 2015/2016. appropriate, given that since 2005, school years have not been enrolled in master's studies and that these past 10 years have been sufficient in his view to complete these master's studies. The government has accepted this solution to extend the master's and doctoral studies, and that's not bad. To me, the bad argument that we could hear today is that two years ago this deadline was already extended, the one that we're proposing for two years now, that it would demote people who were supposed to end up in these previous two years of their doctoral and masteral studies, so that it would demotize them if that deadline were longer than that deadline that was then motivated them to complete faster. counterpart Atlagic said it was 12,000 people who had finished in the past two years. I have a problem with that kind of motivation and then the question is, is this really the deadline? Do we now talk about a two-year period so that these remaining 10,000 - 12,000, how many of them are motivated to end up in those two years or in two years we'll get back into a situation we've just been saying that to motivate you so we'll give you a chance again and again and again a chance and again. With that policy, with that way of thinking, our SDS-NPS parliamentary group has a problem. Especially since this is about the most educated part of Serbia's population. We're discussing an extension of studies for doctoral and master's studies today. It means the most educated part of the population. Should we treat them this way, give them short deadlines to motivate them? We think it's wrong, and I can understand that you Mr. Minister can't say this is the last deadline, and this will no longer be extended, because you don't know if you'll be in that position in two years' time. Your predecessor probably thought that in October 2016 he would be here, so it happened that he didn't, but you're here. Now you're talking two years new, as he said two years ago about two new years. I'm afraid in two years, if no one else is going to be in your place for anything else that he might say, here I am now and two more years. I think it's bad, that we're sending a bad message and that what you've announced in one of the reasons for not accepting one of the amendments, I can't quite remember, you said a new law will come, that a comprehensive solution will come, that we really come to some new law, that we can solve the problems that exist in higher education, the ineffectiveness of our studies, corruption, everything that's out of line with the labour market. That we will discuss these problems very quickly in Parliament and do something to raise quality for higher studies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4025	The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4026	Honorable President, why am I against not being accepted? Because the spirit of what the students said was accepted. So there wouldn't be any doubt as students follow us and professors of the university. Of some MPs, I think those who left the session just now heard an opinion and doubted the extension of the deadline, that it was a little problematic. I'm glad students, citizens and teachers see who stands for it and who doesn't. When I talk about this article 1 and the methodology that we're talking about, I think she's respected. I have no intention of defending the minister. The Minister has said that before, but there is a position of the National Council that we have chosen here and the National Council must in some way respect the Minister, but the National Council for Higher Education is our body and nothing in the methodology is wrong. The spirit of the law is important to us, that it is a respected essence. However, those words we have heard from some of the MPs who are guilty do not matter anymore who is responsible for the overall education, but I must tell you, gentlemen Members of Parliament, you cannot object to this government when it comes to curricula and programmes. Just those who criticized, believed it or not, here, I apologize for having to say this, in listening to music in the third grade of elementary school they found precisely to throw out "Mars na Drina", or "Death Smail-age Cengic", "Teno Sing", "Jama" Ivan Goran Kovacic from Serbian. What's been destroyed for 2,000 years, we're not going to save the advances. We will contribute to salvation. It will take many generations behind us and many generations to correct. Gentlemen, it is not the Serbian Progressive Party and Mr. Sarcevic has kicked out of school. Back in three years, teachers were not allowed to mention the word education...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4027	Ambassador, please, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4028	Here, I'll be right back. ... It's just the ones who used to criticise. In that name, I'm really glad we have the consent. Please, about the amendment, let me get this straight. They asked for a number. I have the exact number, maybe it varies into 100 students. In two years, Madam President, it has completed 12,000 studies of 22,000. Is it small? And these 12,000 will end. And the doctoral studies and the master's degree, there were a lot fewer of them, but they came to an end and they missed one day, not by the guilt of those students, the doctorate, but by the professor, here, I'm a professor and I have the courage to say that we're guilty, holding in a drawer for six months and two years of application, doctorate, when they're done, because we think we're the masters of life and death of those students. That's why I'm gonna keep trying to keep them going. Since I'm not only a historian but also a pedagogue, for the first time I've told you, I have a lot of papers from pedagogy, but I know the history of pedagogy well and I write. Since 1946, in order to make it more clear to all of us, to this day, all the reforms that were implemented, all the students when the laws were passed, have always continued according to the previous curricula and programme. What do we have against our students studying? Do we advocate lifelong education and education? Let's let the kids study. They wanted the predecessors of the restrictions to speed them up a little bit. Thank you and forgive the intervention.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4029	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4030	Thank you. At this point in the debate, we have a clear procedure for me never until the end. It is therefore the case that on both committees, the Committee on Education and the Committee on the Constitution and legislation one amendment was adopted, that it was also accepted by the Proposer and that it became an integral part of the draft law. One of the interpretations is that there are several amendments, there are no more members, as in the basic bill, and that's logical. The amendment of our Rules of Procedure has never, unfortunately, been resolved - what is further with the amendments, whether we have only a story for the sake of the story or we can really contribute to something that we are applicants of the amendments without being accepted, which is completely and legitimately and legally by the proposings and committees. Why do I say that's a problem? Because it is easy to respond that this member, now amended by the accepted amendment, will come into force when published in the “Official Messenger. ” We know that. But the question is, what am I discussing right now, if I want to be in the details of the search? On the other hand, I want to prove this amendment that I have submitted to Article 1 yes and that I am concerned that the minister has less problems than he is following. So my proposal was to leave the students, the postgraduate students, who want to enroll in the third year of this school year. Why will you remember this proposal? Because in 20 months from today, you'll be coming to extend the deadlines. My only idea was to save a man at least one group of graduates that they know today that by explaining their research they can enroll in a third year. Now you don't have that solution. And the only idea was to help you, in the hope that in this conference, we would talk differently about higher education. Unfortunately for me, we don't talk differently. Unfortunately for me, whoever candaces we will not have in you, nor partners, nor sides in the dialogue, but that does not mean that we will ever give up looking for a dialogue on important topics, such as education, higher education, secondary or preschool education. The amendments that we adopted, and thus improved the text of the bill, I said in principle, I don't care who submitted the amendment. But it is important for me to be offended by the institution of the National Assembly in the debate. Amendments don't stand for parliamentary groups, they don't vote for parliamentary groups, it's a shame to say here that the parliamentary group votes. This means that we have not read the Constitution, that we have not read the Law on the National Assembly. It's a shame to sign the amendment and say it's signing the parliamentary group. It is a matter of procedure and respect, a fine distinction between knowing what the integrity of the MP is and the undisputed right to say – I have integrity because I belong to one parliamentary group and one political party. That fine distinction will continue to distinguish us from successful societies. Because whoever learns that fine distinction is able to engage in dialogue with other people, which has not happened to us in this debate. The fact is that if anything good comes out of this debate, it's that I have a request from the Minister to remember the pace of this debate, the atmosphere, your amazement from time to time when it's practical for the first time at meetings of the National Assembly, because it's going to be important for the future legislative projects that you're going to introduce, for the future shortcomings of procedures, which you are the victim, essentially, as executive authority and for, hopefully, not in the future, this kind of lack of will that we really have a focused dialogue on a very important topic. For the consequences of applying this law, I say in advance that you should and should have the right, both you and most, to make public, in professional circles, in public, statements – because of you students, the problem has been solved. It's legitimate and legal. It's not legitimate to disobey the critical advice or the suggestion of anyone else. It's a common shame, and it happens to us all the time. I've heard here one MP who says his amendment doesn't comply with the uniform methodological rules. You know, he shouldn't be in the process. But it shows you as a paradigm what we're talking about, unfortunately, instead of talking about what the minister is going to do for the next 20 months. As much as I want this extension to work, I want so much to be wrong and not see myself here in 20 months, with the amendment that I filed today for the debate, and October 6th in the procedure, and we don't have graduates and PhDs who won't have a solution. I wish I wasn't right and I hope you'll let me be wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4031	The word is by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4032	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I generally support co-worker Komic's discussion. She was really very active in interpreting and making this amendment for this Article 1, but I just need to point out one more thing. Even today, students can move to a third year of doctoral studies, those who were an old master's degree, or who didn't finish their doctorate. But there won't be a problem in 20 months because, as far as I know, the minister has promised to make a new law on higher education, so he'll have the opportunity to settle everything through that law, and all of these remarks I believe are well-intentioned and that we should adopt them. But we need one other thing to know, one way we behave when we're an opposition and another when we're a position. That's what we all miss. We have to make this right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4033	Alexander Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4034	I have to react because it seems to me that Mrs. Comic's exposure was directed, among other things, to me. I said I filed the amendment on behalf of the SNS parliamentary group. I did, I said, and that's true. I see politics as teamwork. I wasn't chosen here as an individual. So I was elected from an election list called "Alexander Vukic – Serbia Wins", and the centre party of the coalition was SNS. As chairman of the SNS parliamentary group, I am obliged to promote the SNS programme and policy in the National Assembly, not myself personally. Unlike some others, the SNS knows who the party's president is. (Zoran Krasic, from the place: Who is it? ) The president of the parliamentary group is known. (Zoran Krasic, from the place: Who is it? There's no telling who's... Okay, Mr. Krasic, I understand that you'd like to cancel your salaries for teachers in Belgrade, Novi Sad and Kragujevac, that's a brilliant idea.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4035	Ambassador, you didn't ask for a replica, you don't discuss the amendment, and now you're talking to Krasic. Please don't. Go back to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4036	I'm talking about the amendment. So, I'm part of a team of people who've gotten into the legacy of huge problems, among other things, problems in the area of higher education. I don't know how you imagine politics, I imagine it as co-operation within the parliamentary group, because when we prepared this amendment, so I didn't get it out of the small brain, but we previously held consultations within the parliamentary group, especially with those SNS deputies who are also university professors, who work in a higher education system in the Republic of Serbia. I don't know how you're experiencing politics, I'm proud of the fact that I am together with my fellow MPs, political ally of the government of the Republic of Serbia, led by Aleksandar Vukic. I have no problem saying that I support this government's policy, they don't have that problem either, and I'm proud of the fact that the government had an understanding to accept our amendment. I know that today is popular in Serbia to be against Alexander Vukic, because Alexander Vukic, along with his government colleagues, often has to make unpopular moves, but we are essentially experiencing politics in a different way from you. I completely understand. That's what you're saying because your political party is in the situation you're in. You've shed bitter tears over the fate of your students, crying that they don't have the money to study, that the state is denying them this or that. Here, look around you, where did your fellow Members of Parliament cry over the fate of the students who wanted to lynch the Minister of Education because, imagine, he accepted the amendment of the president of the SNS parliamentary group? Yes, I filed an amendment on behalf of the parliamentary group. I don't want to attribute this amendment to myself. This isn't the amendment I'm the only one standing behind. This is the amendment behind which the entire parliamentary group stands. This is an amendment accepted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Parliamentaryism implies synergy, co-operation between parliament and government. We are not enemies to this government. We're friends with this government. This government will always have an ally in us to improve the state of affairs in every area of social life, as Minister Sarcevic today has our support to improve the situation in the areas of higher education, primary and secondary education, so the Minister of Business Goran Knezevic will have our support to solve all the problems we have in public enterprises, to solve the problem with enterprises that are in restructuring, as the Serbian Government will support us to create new jobs. You laughed, you made jokes at the expense of Alexander Vukic and his sleeping in a barracks in Nis. The man managed to tour all of southern Serbia, I doubt any of you went after the hand, to open new drives, to sign new contracts, to give life, to give hope to the people of Nis, to the White Palanca, and to Sreljag, and to Vranje, and to Piroth and Vranjska Banja and to Kursumliska Banja, and you saw what it looked like, that's your work, better said Sunday, your hand. So we have a fundamental conflict between the two political concepts. Because of the situation in your party, you think you're free shooters, and be yourself, I have nothing against it, but the SNS, or its MP group, seems like a team. I, as president of the parliamentary group, stand behind every amendment submitted by any SNS MP, will defend every amendment of the SNS MPs, as I will be the political ally of the Government of the Republic of Serbia led by Aleksandar Vukic, whether you like it or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4037	One question, do you want a replica or do you want to discuss it the same way? I'll give you the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4038	I'm really going to line up, I'm not going to get anything around like this just before it was. So the state of the National Assembly is the state of the Constitution. The Constitution knows the Messenger of the people, the Law of the National Assembly knows the messenger of the people. The constitution also knows political parties. The Constitution does not know a sentence; the group of MPs will vote in favour. You're absolutely right, our political concepts are completely different. It is your political right, of course, to support whoever you want, to do political evaluations to support the government whatever you want. It is my political obligation to agree with what I deeply believe, that without the integrity of the MP there are no parliamentary groups, there is no development of dialogue, no development dialogue and there is no real institution building. The paradox is that these institutions are to the benefit of every minister and every Prime Minister. When you respect the Constitution and respect the Law on the People's Assembly, then you make that fine distinction, about promoting your political party, about promoting your parliamentary club, but to know what is the obligation of a MP. I've had a chance to say to the new ministers here – I'm a better opponent than many who support you very much. Unfortunately, many ministers have come to say that – oh, indeed, you were right. The government of the Republic of Serbia in the area of higher education is a place here. What it does in other sectors - elsewhere, but always as a carrier of integrity, as a national MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4039	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4040	I'll talk about Mrs. Gordana Comic's amendment, since we've come to the debate. The amendment covered Article 1. The bill, which refers to Article 123(3) and (4) concerning master's and doctoral studies. For the sake of the public, to say that the law on whose amendments and additions we are conducting today was brought up in 2005, but that law was amended both in 2012 and 2013 and in 2014 and 2015, and even given an authentic interpretation of that law. According to these years of change, you can figure out what earlier promoters had to have in mind. I must say I disagree with Mrs. Gordana Comic's amendment, and now I'm going to tell you why. Not because it is covered by the fact that one of the amendments to Article 1 has been adopted, but because this amendment and many other amendments do not pay attention to certain principles. The first and basic principle would have to be to make the study programmes quite stable and comprehensive. There must be a difference between those programs that were before Bologna and the programs that were according to Bologna, because those in Bologna are a disaster, they get points, there's some material being mastered, but there's no essential knowledge, and that's why they invented those master studies, etc. We're essentially talking about this problem. If there is a stable programme then it's trivial when it's going to be passed and it can be studied, because I guess education exists for the sake of knowledge, there's no higher education for people to be in the educational process as long as they don't attack the labour market, so statistics show as many unemployed. That was Tito's time. Well, Tito said – even if they're going to study and be in college for a long time to learn not to spit in the streets, and they won't be unemployed, but they'll be led as students, students, etc. So the focus should be the program. The principle of another that should apply is what you laid down you don't lay. The third principle to be present is something will go from budget, but today we have a good part of the study that is outside the budget, private universities, private colleges, etc. I'm going back to that market economy again. You know, someone went to private school. He gave the money to the professor. One part of these pairs implies that it must not bring it down, because it does not comply with market principles. The market principle is to pay, so slaughter, I'm to you for the money you're supposed to give me a knowledge or a diploma. We are far from getting our colleges promoted in a way that graduates of a university have their weight and that everyone grabs for who finished that college tomorrow. We're obviously not going to get into that position. Why? Because we're advocating our current interests from all sides and that's our problem and just to let you know. Thanks to this amendment of this law and the good amendments that have been filed, the professors will have salaries in two years, no one has abolished them, but will receive salaries based on this before the Bologna study. Just for the record.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4041	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Lapčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4042	I have submitted to Article 1 an amendment that is slightly wider than that adopted, and also applies to those students who have started studying in Bologna and have not finished it so far. Considering that it is necessary to give if they have already given the opportunity to both magistrates and doctors, that even students who have started studying in Bologna, and it refers to those who have enrolled in integrated studies and external medical sciences that can have room for them to finish, because in this group of students we have different cases of life, that for various reasons they simply could not complete those studies in time. The amendment was rejected and it was passed down to certain members of the law so that colleges could decide on it individually. Okay, I think that some recommendation from the Ministry of Education could go that way to meet their needs. I'm going to talk a little bit wider than this amendment, because I think it's very important that we talk today about this portfolio and this sector that I think is the basic sector for the country's progress. You have received a sector of education and education that is crucial for this country to try to return to some better paths to try to get out of this huge crisis. We had a disturbing text last week, which is unfortunately true, because it's based on statistics led by countries that are receiving our high school students, which says that 58,000 people emigrated last year to OECD countries alone. You can feel free to count that at least half the high school students who are the most educated among those 58,000. When a country deprives so many smart and educated people, and make sure that unlike Serbia, the country has built a market mechanism to check knowledge, they do not receive those who have diplomas, but those who know. Unfortunately, in the country of Serbia, in the last 15 years, there has been much more diplomas that have a name, not to say that these diplomas are being bought, but in some cases even that term can be used, than we have the real knowledge that comes from these diplomas. What true knowledge is unfortunately undervalued in the country and that is why we have a huge outflow of the smartest people in developed countries, it is simply a market principle for people to go where they are better, where they will be able to perfect themselves, to advance in their work, to have better salaries, to have a better existence, and on that side we can understand them. The job of you and the work of the government is, after all, all of us here to try to create the best possible system for these people to stay here. Then it's not in line with what's happening to us on the market that we have hundreds of people who have completed medical sciences waiting for work because according to some standards the Ministry forbids reception, and we have huge crowds in health homes, inadequate health care, inadequate conditions in the judiciary and education and wherever you want. So the state has to do everything to provide as good conditions as possible for those people who know, those who have knowledge, not those who have a degree. There's a key role for the Ministry. So, at some point earlier, the Ministry has evened out private and state colleges, and that is something that is mandatory under the Constitution, but the Ministry can do, and in the end we are all aware of and the fact that unfortunately much more ignorance with diplomas comes than knowledge. And that we don't have the proper evaluation of these institutions. When a young man wants to go to college, he simply doesn't know or knows a little about what college will give him knowledge, which will give him a degree so that he might go along with less resistance. There is a very important role of the Ministry and it can create a mechanism that, in addition to checking and definitely clearing up on the market, whether any institution of higher education has a work license, and unfortunately there are a lot of them that work, they take money from students, and they don't have a license, and you have to solve it as soon as possible, to do the evaluation mechanism of those higher education institutions so that you can provide adequate information about students who have a high rating of values in terms of knowledge, to go there because they will get knowledge, and with knowledge they will be able to work in a good company, to have a large salary and to ensure their existence. It can simply be solved by a very small move, let's say, all graduates from the economy, whether they were called managements, fabuses, megatrends, it's absolutely irrelevant, from the economy when they end up in one year, give them a single test, so all those who passed, finish their studies both in Belgrade and in all private schools will take that same test. The average rating of all those who have completed this test will be included in the evaluation of the quality of that university, and then those who have an average rating, let's say that it is the Belgrade Faculty of Economics over nine, will be the best recommendation for future young colleagues to enroll such colleges, and those who lack enough knowledge to be some private university, it doesn't matter, perhaps even with the state, will be the antics for that university and will make those institutions study knowledge and value knowledge and give them knowledge, not to give them diplomas. It's your essence, and you have to work on it, because it's the only way we're going to be able to lift the level of knowledge and the quality of education through that mechanism, and of course we can use those same people tomorrow, under the circumstances, to be our engine for the development of the country. Everything else will be an empty story. We're extending deadlines from year to year. The deadlines, after all, don't matter to me at all. The fact that someone's going to wear a Stigma is that he's a senior student, so that's his problem. You give him the opportunity to finish it, and I guess it's in our best interest to have as many educated people as possible. If they're leaving us so much, so let those who've had some problems in their lives end up sometimes, maybe they'll be useful to the country. Don't limit them to deadlines. He'll do with whether he has knowledge or has no knowledge to fight on the market for his job tomorrow. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4043	Thank you. The word is by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4044	Dear colleagues and colleagues, this is another amendment that has not been accepted, but it has been, like these others, positive. I think there's a lot of positive stuff out of this that can come to a conclusion. I think even the minister has remembered some of the suggestions and will accept them, and everyone who has well-intentioned suggestions, in order to help education, they are welcome and I believe that everyone will meet these suggestions. There's something we may not have said by now. The goal of these changes in the Law on Higher Education was precisely that these young people, whom there are tens or 20,000, do not know how much, do not stop their education, continue it and stay here in Serbia, not to go outside Serbia, not to destroy both their life and their career. On the other hand, there are no arguments that it will now be some new income for professors, or colleges. No, on the contrary, so we did this so the students wouldn't take any new costs. They've already paid once what they have to pay, eventually they'll pay for the application of exams, which is normal so far. Even when we talked about the bolognas, we said that by doing so, they would pay nothing, that their curricula and their programs would not change, that everything would be factually directed to make it easier for them to complete their studies. It's very interesting and it's nice how to get a real fair assessment of knowledge, but it's not that easy, on the one hand. On the other hand, neither is the fact, nor is it true that those who were the best students will be the most successful in life. We have an example I remember from history, I've read a little past school. The greatest son of all nations and peoples of SFRY was Joseph Broz, and he repeated the first class. It was not a guarantee that he would fail in life, and that he was great would not be a guarantee to him that he would be who he is. Therefore, all these well-intentioned remarks I believe the Ministry will accept, and co-operation with all of you is welcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4045	The word is by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4046	Thank you. Please just tell me how much time left for the DJB parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4047	I don't know you have a lot of time. I have to look, I'll tell you in the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4048	Okay, just so I know I've got plenty.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4049	You have 18 minutes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4050	Thank you. I'd like to support this amendment, and I'd like to point at the same time to a few things that have been related, which have already been said and some that have not been spoken of, are about the extension of the deadline. So, I want to repeat again -- the deadline that we are now trying to extend here to students who have enrolled colleges before 2005 expired on September 30th. The request to extend that deadline arrives after that date. We still haven't come to terms with what needs to be done. We'll probably vote on that tomorrow. I think it takes students to meet and allow them to continue their studies, but we would like it to be constitutionally regulated. So, to underline once again, we have no objection to allowing students to complete their studies on those programs by which it was started, but in a constitutionally legal way. Since the students had already completed the deadline, expired by law and the students had completed their studies on September 30th, trying to extend something that had already been completed is not constitutional, i.e. If you want to do this, you have to pass a law with a retroactive fact. In fact, this is practically a law with a return fact, only it doesn't say it. Once again, under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, it is not allowed to pass laws with a return fact unless it is specifically highlighted in the reasoning. I would like to call you once again that there is no problem at all if this member is a little bit different to formulate himself, to explain what public interest is in, because you can bring back laws with a return fact in the public interest, that's allowed, but it has to be explained. That's one thing. It's connected to this article, and so should everyone else. So if you allow someone who has expired to re-enter the same studies, then you have to do it with everyone, because you can't share students in multiple categories, some who are privileged, even though the final studies can be re-entered, and then these others can't. These bolognas that were registered after 2005, they can't. So they should be able to do that, too. So we don't have to build groups of first and second-class students. That's one thing. The other thing, when we decide on one of these topics, I think it's very important, and it would be polite of the motion to introduce us to some details that are important so that we can make a reasoned decision or a decision based on information. I can't think of anything to decide, can I? I think we all agree that we can't make decisions about anything, and that means that in this case, there's a lot of information missing here, official information about what colleges these students are in, or universities? What are universities and colleges? Which cities, then, are they? How many are there? How many of those students are there? I'm just talking about official data. What's their average score? How many exams have been passed so far, i.e. How many exams do they have left? We can also continue to go on with the details about whether we're making a good decision, because it's not the same when you're letting someone finish, and let's just say he didn't pass five exams of 30 or 40, or maybe most of the people who need to finish these studies are actually people who might have two, three exams left. If someone entered in 2004 or earlier, then in 11 years he didn't have time to pass maybe more than two, three exams from the first year, does it make sense to allow such a population to re-enter? But if there really are a lot of people who have maybe one, two exams to the end, then it makes sense to extend. But we don't know anything about it. Some MPs have been saying that there are so many students, there are so many and so many students, there are 10,000, 12,000, 15,000, we've heard somewhere in the press 18,000, is it possible that there's no information about it, and for the fifth time we've been doing this for the last five years, I don't know how many years, that there's no information about how many of these people? If you're asking someone to pass a law, which you'd like to meet, there should be at least the necessary information about what kind of decision they make. And the last part, which I would end up with, I think it's also important, since I suppose this is the fifth time we're doing this, that we're going to do it again to this or another call, that the Ministry commits that, from the day these amendments are passed, the colleges are going to keep records of what happened to him from the moment this law was passed to the moment in the future when we're likely to have to decide again. So, to know that from, say, tomorrow, if we adopt tomorrow, by September 1st of next year, we have one report that the Ministry will make based on the data provided by colleges that have enrolled such students, about how many more there are, what they've done in these years, how many exams they've passed, how many exams they have left, what is the average grade or whatever. I'd even throw in a standard deviation, so let's see what kind of students we're dealing with and then know in a year if what we did made any sense. If it turns out that in a year from these, say, 10,000 people maybe 100 students passed one or two exams on average, then at least we know what we were doing here today, and then we can know what we're going to do in the future. I've submitted one amendment that speaks of it. I don't know what reason the Constitutional Committee rejected without any explanation. I simply urge that for the next time, I suppose, if the minister is here next time, in the same role, please provide us with some information that we know what we're deciding on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4051	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4052	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, here, some MP groups from the opposition, I think, are trying to create fear among those citizens of the Republic of Serbia to whom this law will apply. And then they talk about this law bringing legal uncertainty, that this law has a feedback. One of the shortcomings in this bill, according to them, is that there is no provision on the return effect of the law, but what has intrigued me, and that is why I came to the floor, it is a constant repetition of the syntagma – the entry deadline has been completed, and you are passing the law in October of the month. Excuse me, what kind of enrollment are you talking about? Article 123, I'm going to read this because of the students this law applies to. Article 123(1) of which are amended and complemented by the Proposal for a Law on Higher Education will read, after we have voted on the draft law, students enrolled in primary studies and studies at higher schools, until the entry into force of this law, can complete these studies according to the start of the curriculum and programme, the conditions and the rules of studies by the end of the school 2017, i.e. 2018, or until the end of the school 2018/2019. years for students enrolled in integrated studies from medical sciences. What's not clear here? What kind of enrollment, what kind of enrollment? What September 30th? People continue with the starting studies they've already enrolled. You can wave your head all you want. I admit I'm a stupid man, but I'm basically written to read what the law says when we adopt it. There's no enrollment. People are already listed. So students enrolled in basic studies. So people are already enrolled, there's nothing to sign up for. (Dusan Pavlovic, from the place: Not listed. ( b) How are they not listed? Mr Pavlovic, I understand that you have the need to scare the people, you have the need to scare the people, you have the need to scare the students, because you, or your MP group, can't do anything else.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4053	Please, no personal address.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4054	This isn't about enrollment. This is about people being enrolled. So they're already enrolled, they already have indices, they're already studying, they're already taking some exams, and now they're only due for the completion of their enrolled studies to be extended until the end of 2017/2018 school. of the year, i.e. until the end of the school 2018/2019 years for students enrolled in integrated studies from medical sciences. Dear students, you have no need to be afraid of anything, no one will cause you any trouble, no retroactive enrollment, no nothing from what the opposition has been telling you for days of unsuspecting talk, to give you the fear of a terrible government that wants you evil, which is actually trying to meet you and to leave you extra time to finish your already-repeated studies. And we went one step further. The government had heard and understood that this same right, which we gave under the Bill of Law to students of basic studies, that both for students of master studies and for students of doctoral studies. So both students of primary studies and magistrates and doctors are already enrolled. There's people on board. There are no new admission exams, no releases of new indices. The minister is here to correct me if I'm wrong. People are only allowed an additional period to complete already enrolled studies. That's one thing I want to say. The other thing, what the opposition colleagues won't say, and here I'm going to say, it's not wisdom, I'm just going to read the bill. You can't get to Article 4. The bill – independent higher education institutions will bring their general acts into line with this law within three months of the date of entry into force of this law. Therefore, there will be no such colleges that will be able to bring these students to whom this bill, or law, when we vote it to create any problems, because they have a legal obligation to bring all their general acts, which are sublegal character, into line with the provisions of this law on amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education, which have three months from the date of entry into force of this law. You don't study, and that's what I want to point out, you don't study our colleges, how can I tell you, directly under the Higher Education Act. I guess at colleges and universities, is that right, Professor? Stoimirovic, I guess there are some rules, I guess there are general acts on the basis of which basic studies, master studies, doctoral studies, etc. are conducted. All these general acts lower than the laws, which apply in independent higher education institutions, will have to be brought into line with the provisions of the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education within three months of their entry into force. Therefore, dear students, dear parents and dear citizens of Serbia, there is no need for anyone to scare you. There's no new enrollment. You have only a chance to complete your studies by the end of school 2017, i.e. 2018. until the end of school 2018/2019 years when it comes to integrated studies in the field of medical science. That's where the whole story's over. We want to stimulate students who started studies by giving an additional deadline. The old programme, meanwhile, came upon them by the adoption of the Law on Higher Education, that the studies they have entered and completed within the additional time limit that this law leaves for them, i.e. 2017/2018, i.e. for medics 2018/2019. A year. What is the intensity of the legislator that we, the MPs of the SNS, agree with? It's to be some kind of injection to people who haven't completed their studies, and they've been started by both basic and master's and doctoral, to finish them by these deadlines prescribed by law. It's not true that these deadlines have no stimulating character. They do. He knows that well, Minister. It was about this and there were discussions both within the parliamentary groups and within the ministry and within the National Council for Higher Education, that these deadlines would be longer, but the government decided and we agree, that this is an optimal deadline, because giving too long a deadline somehow relaxes people – and, I have time to finish. In the meantime, life goes its course and instead of people finishing colleges, they would have had this relatively short term gone. This isn't particularly long, if it wasn't for this relatively short term, the question is whether they would all finish their studies. Probably not all of them will end, but we think it's a real assumption that most of them will end up. After all, Professor Marko Atlagic provided exact information on how many students were in that additional deadline that was extended managed to complete their studies, primarily basic studies. So, this giving of deadlines is not the ideal solution, it is not the happiest solution, but it is one solution for a part of Serbia's citizens who have found themselves objectively in the problem. When you talk about legal uncertainty and retroactive action, how do I view this problem? The feedback and the legal certainty problem, when did it come into existence? When the Higher Education Act was passed in 2005. At the time, you had a situation where someone had already enrolled studies under a programme that was subject to the Law on Higher Education, if I'm not mistaken, since 2002, and in the meantime, a new law was passed. Well, people came into a legally empty space -- I started by one program in the meantime, I was welcomed by a new law. Since the law that was in force before 2005 was passed in 2002, you were three years old from 2002 to 2005. What about the people who enrolled in their studies in 2002 or 2003? Who could have completed college by 2005 not to fall under the 2005 Higher Education Act? Almost no one. So you have to understand that, you know, that's what the Roman lawyers were talking about -- rightly following the facts, not the facts of the law. Facts are, life is older than legal norms. You do not imitate the life of legal norms, but we imitate the legal norms of life. We are now doing this by amending the Law on Higher Education. So, the fact is, it's social life in Serbia, that we have a number of people who started their studies of basic, master's and doctoral under that so-called. The old programs, meanwhile, have been passed a new Law on Higher Education with all its advantages and disadvantages, and I'm not going to talk about it right now, but that's life. What do we do with these people? Let's tell them - you don't exist for us, we don't care about you, that's one option, one extreme. The second extreme was to give them a five-year deadline. Your colleague mentioned a ten-year deadline. So much for the seriousness of the debate. Give them an extra ten years to finish their basic, master's, or doctoral studies. This is about the measure, the measure. The government of Serbia and the National Assembly, or at least the majority of the National Assembly, estimate that the deadline for completion of the study is the right to complete the studies by the end of 2017/2018 school, i.e. for the medics 2018/2019 years. Of course, time will show if it really is the right measure. It seems to us at this point that it is. As for the Minister of Education, you can change thousands of ministers of education and thousands of ministers of education can change in that position, no one can give you an absolute guarantee that by that year, any student who started under the old program will probably not, but no one in advance can guarantee you—here, I guarantee that all students will finish. That's not serious, that's not even possible. What you're losing sight of, you keep asking the minister why there's no statistics in the law, why there aren't so many students, well, that's not the law. The law is a set of legal norms that have a general character. The law isn't a study. The law is not an analytical report. The law is not a statistical report. The law is a general legal act. What you're talking about, it's statistics, but that statistics is not unknown. It is not true that Serbia does not know how many students this law applies to. That data exists, and that's the information Professor told you about. Marko Atlagic, it's your problem not to listen. Your problem, in general, is not just your personal, entire opposition, which you are trying to make a daily political topic. We are proposing an amendment that goes in favour of students of basic studies and magistrates and doctors, but now it is not good that the government has accepted the amendment signed there by some Aleksandar Martinovic. So it's not about making every topic a day political game. You can do it, but we don't want to do it. We want to solve problems, and we think this is a way to solve the problem. When will the problem finally be solved? It will be resolved when a brand-new Law on Higher Education and the Ministry of Education and Minister Sarcevic, in the end, does not hide it from the people. So we have no illusion that these changes and additions will solve all the problems in higher education, with, how many, five members of the bill. There is no way to solve all the problems in our higher education, but the minister stated in the light of the bill - problems in the application of the law cannot be solved without the adoption of a new law on higher education. So the thing is very clear. The problems will be fully solved when we adopt a new Law on Higher Education, but until then life must go on and we legal norms imitate life by making students who are already enrolled, so they don't have to re-enter, we just leave extra time to complete their basic, master's and doctoral studies. Here, I've been trying, Mr. Arsic, to explain how much it's up to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4055	Thank you. Right on behalf of the parliamentary group, MP Jasmina Nikolic. Here you go. (Dusan Pavlovic, from the place: Can I personally, since he spoke to me? ) The title has the head of the parliamentary club, or authorized. As a rule, the first if a parliamentary group is mentioned has an authorised representative or president of a parliamentary group. If your colleague gives you that right, nothing more. (Jasmina Nikolic, from the place: We can switch, I'm fine. You can, it's okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4056	Thank you. There were a few things I would like to answer with my colleague Martinovic. First of all, he seems to resent something we don't want to do at all. So let me do it again. We think students need to meet and we agree that we need to solve this problem that exists. And we, therefore, want to solve problems, we just don't want to do it in an unconstitutional way. That's the first thing. So we would support these changes, but we would like them to be in accordance with the Constitution. When you say – there is no enrolment people are enrolled, so I don't know, colleague Martinovic, do you know that there is a rule in every university that students register year every year. So, at every university, at least in Serbia, a student when he finishes his first year, say, then enrolls next year again. If there is no entry, the student is not enrolled. In Article 123 of the law which is still valid, it is said – students enrolled in master's studies, until the entry into force of this law, have the right to, excuse me, students enrolled under this programme to continue under the same programme under the conditions of study rules and to end this by the latest end of the school year 2015 or 2016. It says, but it's over, I don't know if you realize that. (Alexander Martinovic, from the place: They are entered. But it ended on September 30th this year. And he has to re-enter that year. If he doesn't sign it, he's no longer a student. And we've been 20 days since that deadline. Secondly, you say this extension has a stimulating character. How do we know that when we don't have any data on what happened to previous extensions and stimulations?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4057	You're bringing an end to a colleague, Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4058	So the fourth time we've done it and we don't have any data on it. The data has to be official, not some MP who's talking about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4059	Thank you. Jasmine Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4060	Thank you. So the law is absolutely inexorable, the law says clearly that students have the right to complete studies started by the end of the school year 2015/16. It is September 30th, because again, according to the law still in force, the school year is said to start new according to the October 1st school year rule. So, September 30th is the date when students of all levels of study, absolutely all levels of study, who studied according to the old one, lost the right to complete studies as usual. The school year began on October 1st, and if MP Martinovic is right, then I will ask the legislator, really very seriously to explain his own explanation in which Chapter 5 stands. – that it is necessary to pass the law, because the harmful consequences will arise if the changes do not take place until the beginning of the school year, which I repeat, according to the law that is in force begins on October 1st of the school year. It's October 20th. Furthermore, as regards the obligation of the promoter to which we have responded, as this Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Law arrived with a four-day delay compared to the expiry of the deadline, so, on 4 October, the Government sent, the Assembly passed the law. Analyzing the argument we came up with a few conclusions that I won't repeat, but I want to say one thing, the promoter was obliged to deliver in writing in an explanation of the adverse consequences analysis and to say exactly which. So if the data exists I understand that one of us knows them.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4061	You're bringing the end of my colleague Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4062	However, it is not the obligation of the promoter to know one of us. The proposal is to provide them in an explanation. So this is strictly a formal thing. Twenty days have passed. I have another question for the legislator of the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education, which reads - if it is true that nothing has changed, and if the school year is entered in October, as you stated in your explanation, and not on October 1st, by law, my question to you is - what will happen to students who signed up doctoral studies after the new one on October 13th, considering...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4063	Thank you. It's been 40 seconds over two minutes. He has the word, right to the replica of Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4064	What you are constantly trying to represent as your thesis is – September 30, 2016 is a “made line”. On that day, the end of the world, students are no longer students, they have to re-enter, etc. That's not true. That's not what the law says. So you are interpreting the law in the wrong way to present to the citizens of Serbia that the government and the Resort Ministry are not working for the benefit of students, and that is not true. If it's true, Mrs Nikolic, then I ask you, here's your colleague Pavlovic, if I'm not mistaken, is he an extraordinary professor, a colleague of Pavlovic -- is there an exam deadline at your university called October two? There is. It's October two. Then how is it possible that he has October two, and the school year begins on October 1st? How is it possible for students to take exams from the previous year, and the school year started? What do I want to tell you? Don't be ridiculous. Don't be ridiculous and don't make people laugh at what you're saying. This isn't about any new enrolment. This is about continuing the studies already enrolled. The reason why the ministry has proposed that the law enter into force earlier than the eighth day of the day of publication is not because people have to sign up rather than to allow the teaching to take place as soon as possible. Excuse me, Mr. Minister, if I'm wrong. Therefore, in order to enable students to be taught by law school as soon as possible, for students of basic master and doctoral studies who have already started their studies and have already been enrolled and there is no new enrolment. What you don't understand, or you don't understand, is one college enrollment, and the other is...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4065	You're bringing the end, my colleague Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4066	... studying at the second, third or fourth year. There are not all students to whom this law applies who are in the same year of study. Some will find this law at the third year of study, some on the second, some on the fourth, but regardless, these people are enrolled and there is no new enrolment. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4067	Thank you. Right on the line, Jasmina Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4068	Thank you. Unfortunately, the law is inexorable again, even at this point because Article 94 of the current Higher Education Act clearly states when a student loses student status. Among other things, he loses student status if he doesn't sign up for school year. So I'll do it again. The school year began on October 1st, today is October 20th, students who have not enrolled in the school year are not in student status. So they lost their right to student status. In order to obtain the right to student status, students must enter the school year and have to enroll some of the existing student programs and hence we have a problem with this provision because there are no more study programs as old. Our MP group has been trying to point out this for two days now, and I am personally extremely constructively trying to point out this. We also offered solutions. We think it was a good solution to realize that some provision in this bill has a return fact that will cover the period from October 1st to October 20th, especially because of students who have certainly enrolled studies according to the new one, and practically when we have passed this law they will be able to continue their studies according to the old one. There was a solution. We were as constructive as possible and offered it. We had amendments. The amendments have been rejected. What we can still do, since the Assembly is entitled by a member of the Rules of Procedure, say 160, to decide whether there is a general interest if any of the members, i.e. One of the provisions of the law has a return fact, and one has it to establish a general interest and to support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4069	I can only tell you that there is no National Assembly anymore, not even the committees in charge to submit amendments. (Dusan Pavlovic, from town: Replica. Mr. Pavlovic, you have no right to a replica. (Dusan Pavlovic, from the place: He mentioned me. He asked me. He asked you? This is how a colleague - if the MP in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly is offended by an MP who is not a member of the same group MP, stating his name, that condition is fulfilled, last name or function, and that condition is fulfilled, or misread his presentation, is not fulfilled, the MP to whom the presentation refers shall have the right to replication. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: He said he was funny. A colleague, Radulovich, please. I would very much like to give you the right to a replica, but I'm afraid your president of the parliamentary group is not accusing me of violating the Rules of Procedure again. The word is by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4070	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament... (Saša Radulovic, from the place: Don't do things. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4071	Mr. Radulovic, you have no right to approach without a call or permission. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: How can you do things like this. People are watching. There's a camera. ) Continue your colleague Stojmirovic. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: This is such boast and self-will. You can't do this. (Alexander Martinovic throws. ) Col. Martinovic, I know he can't wait to be warned, but I won't give him that satisfaction. (Saša Radulovic, from the scene: Looking at the side won't help you. This is a scandal and a complete disgrace. ) Continue your colleague Stojmirovic. You have a minute that we will refuse you from the time of the group's MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4072	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I want to understand the concern of our fellow Members to meet students and to have no problem continuing their studies. I think colleague Martinovic explained very well and very well that there is no new enrolment here, that it is just a continuation of these studies. But something that reminds me now about the Faculty of Political Sciences, it would be good for my colleagues at that university to be a little more thoughtful and to try those test deadlines, which already belong to them under the law and who are there at that university, to separate a little bit. I've had a lot of students complaining and reporting with a request that they have March, April in a few days and one and two deadlines, the same in June and July, and even this test deadline, which is October two, say you're very difficult to meet to get that test deadline. I am taking this opportunity to ask my colleagues from the Faculty of Political Sciences to be more liberal in this segment of their work and to meet them, to enable them to complete their test obligations more easily, because we have all studied. If my due date in June and July are five days apart, if I haven't been able to pass in the first period, I'll have a hard time learning in five days. So please try to meet those students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4073	One minute and 45 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4074	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I'm advertising members 105, 106, 107, 108 and 109. (Saša Radulovic, from the post: Chairman, who? Your colleagues? Mr. Chairman, I understand this anxiety, Mr. Radulovich. Wait a minute, Mr. Radulovich, I'll explain everything to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4075	My colleagues, my colleague Risticevic wants to explain to me where I broke the Rules of Procedure. What do you have against it? (Saša Radulovic, from the place: Who broke it? Yes. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: Whose speech? )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4076	It's unreasonable to explain that he's unreasonable, that if you were, maybe he wouldn't even be unreasonable. I'll explain. Since there was a breach of the Rules of Procedure after the gentleman received his word, and Mr Radulovic approached the speaker without your permission, while loudly obstructing the speaker who could not speak, I request, Mr. Chairman, that you first apply the measures set out in Articles 108 and 109 to give the warning to Mr. Kradulovic. I understand her nervousness, perhaps the cube went badly tonight, but you must take care of the dignity of the National Assembly and apply the members of 108 and 109 and give a nice warning to Mr. Thief and continue the session in the course in which you need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4077	Comrade, you are likely to be referring to members 108 and 109 regarding article 106. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. I agree that the terms are met. I accept that I have violated the Rules of Procedure that I did not give Radulovic a warning, but I will not give him the satisfaction, even if I am the most guilty man for not applying the Rules of Procedure in this area, in this room. The word is made by the People's MP Tatjan Macur, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4078	Dear Chairman, I report to the Rules of Procedure in breach of Rule 103(1). The MP shall have the right to orally point to an infringement in the conduct of the President of the National Assembly, if he considers that he does not comply with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, and it shall be done at the session of the National Assembly that is under way, immediately after the injury has been done. On several occasions, we spoke to you for a word, applied for a word, and indicated that you were a harsh violation of the Rules of Procedure. You, in spite of all this, have misused all our oral complaints about your work and given a word to the MP whose speech just referred to our parliamentary group, and it came out behind the speech of the MP who is the representative of the SNS. It's totally inadmissible this way. You abuse the place and position you are in, rudely violating all the rules laid down by this Rules of Procedure. I don't know what's so not clear to you. If we have to, we're here to meet you and anyone else to help with what things we find that you don't find clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4079	I think it's Article 103. The rules of procedure have not been broken, because counterpart Risticevic appeared after a done injury, and the discussion of Ljubisa Stojmirovic, who received his word and who was rudely distracted by the president of your parliamentary group to hold a discussion. We all saw it, everybody. (Tatjana Macura, from the place: Why didn't you give the word to your colleague Pavlovic? You said he was wrong. ) This is your opinion, but, fellow Members, in Article 104(3), on the application of the rights set out in Articles 1 and 2 of this Article shall be decided by the chairman of the National Assembly. (Saša Radulovic, from the post: In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, not how you think. ) I ask you, if a fellow MP has asked if there is an October two deadline at the Faculty of Political Sciences, that it is offensive. He didn't say your colleague was funny, he said, and that was the whole MP group, because he spoke in the crowd. On this basis, counterpart Nikolic was granted the right to a replica. (Sasa Radulovic, from the place: Well, how are you not ashamed? How are you not ashamed, Mr. Radulovich? (Sasa Radulovic, from the scene: Serbian citizens listen to what you say. Mr. Radulovich, you will not provoke me, as chairman, to warn you. You're doing nothing, you're doing nothing. Let's move on. (Saša Radulovic, from the post: I'm just trying to respect the Rules of Procedure. ) Does anyone else appear under this amendment? (No) National MPs Nenad Canak, Marinika Tepic, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4080	Thank you, Chairman. I'd like to ask, if that's possible, for you to refer to me as a MP, if that's possible. I must say immediately at the outset that I am very sorry that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as a proponent of this amendment to the Law on Higher Education, did not take into account the amendment of the LSV, which does not discriminate against students, i.e. correcting the error in the initial proposal of the Government, by extending, on equal terms, study and graduates, pre-bolons, or magistrates and PhDs, but the government has taken into account another amendment which we have already heard a lot about, which I will not talk about, but I appreciate as a good reaction from the Government that practically admits its error in this way, although verbally no one has said. I kind of need to hear it because we were listening here as the government came into contact, how it wanted to help, how it had understanding, but it couldn't be said very clearly and without any tension – yes, here, in one part the government was wrong and discriminated against without taking into account these graduates and pre-patients, but here, the amendment was settled until the end. The inability to admit a mistake and to endure criticism of the opposition in the cityal duration of two minutes is for me and as a new national MP, but not a new actor on the political scene, truly surprising, in that way that the minister, I will mention again, here we are, entering the fifth hour of the debate, absolutely at no time found it appropriate to address the MPs and to explain or to explain the information and answers to at least 50 questions that have been asked, starting from the day before yesterday and the principled debate concluded with today's day. We still have a role replacement in our continuum. We have a representative, an authorised representative, a government who proposes this law, who has been silent all day, and we have MPs talking about government decisions, and why the government adopted something or didn't, and they're not members of that government. So, I, here, in the third attempt, Mr. Minister, in this place you were elected a few weeks ago, be a minister and show your full capacity and knowledge and thoughtful higher education policies, address the MPs, answer the question. My question is, more specifically, how did you get out of this room two days ago and continue to defend and stand up and say that you did the right thing when you discriminated on some of the students and here, two days later, that attitude changed? I'm very interested in how you explained it at the government meeting, if you've explained it? Did you end up supporting yourself, or maybe you're too loud, so you don't plead, because maybe you're too loud, you disagreed... So, I really think that the order, after all, is here in this House where you're elected and where you need all the arguments you have and all the knowledge to show, this is the right place to answer opposition questions, not like I said two days ago to treat parliament and MPs as collateral stations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4081	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4082	I'll look for instructions when I'm allowed to answer and how much time I need. Three times I've been, three times I've got a different opinion. I don't have a problem getting back to you. We've been on the board together and discussed these topics. I don't see if anyone has a problem, at least that's how I learned and raised that there are three branches of government: legislative, executive and judicial, and that this legislative, or assembly is the strongest, and that the government is executive and that the government must respect this House. So I acted like someone who did it, not like the whole government. If you forgot from two days ago, I initiated my own troubles two days ago. I personally think that I am a minister to the students above all, and I have shown that I can communicate and cooperate well with them, but we also need to respect the opinion of the National Council for Higher Education. The only thing that I understand is that it would be good to ask, in the proposal for a new high-level law, that this council be appointed to the government, because then we could influence it and then we wouldn't have this kind of interstep. Interstep was created precisely because I was convinced and, as you can see, I am also right that the Assembly has this greater right to give the amendment and thus overcome itself both for doctors and magistrates. Otherwise, since my colleague asked me, it would take a long time to read this entire opinion of the National High Council, how much tomorrow I'm going to let it put on the Ministry of Education site, so you'll read very clearly that it's a summary. There they sit, regardless of academics, the professors of Belgrade University sit. I showed that on the first day I went straight to the recession, to show respect for that institution, and then to the University of Belgrade, and I don't see any other way to treat the National Assembly. If that's not enough answer, I apologize.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4083	Thank you. Just take it easy, colleague Marinika. I don't think you have a basis, you have a time like this, but the basis for the replica really doesn't. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4084	It's not the basis for a replica just mentioning it in a negative context or some criticism. I really appreciate the fact that I was able to get the minister to come forward and I wouldn't miss that chance. If you would just let me check if, like other colleagues, I had a good understanding of the minister's response, which he mentioned was "between the steps" in which he found himself, wanting on the one hand to respect the advice of the advisory body. I have to ask you again, because you pointed out the importance of the legislative body of the National Assembly and of us MPs, and that you understood where it is, did you, through your answer, want to tell us, in fact, that whatever this advisory body advised you through your decision, even if it assumed a violation of the law, as was the case, because you were discriminating part of the students would have violated a number of other norms? So, you've consciously entered the potential risk of breaking some other laws, listening exclusively to advice, the National Council for Higher Education, regardless of whether it implies breaking other legal standards. That's my question? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4085	Just to tell my fellow Members, as the minister has the right to reply, I will have to delete the list of MPs who have applied for the discussion and pay attention to electronic applications. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4086	I don't know how we can violate any other rights when, at the moment when we started this discussion with students in general, the regulations under which they were not denied the right to study but to move on to a Bologna model. This is just looking for a way to make it more efficient, more favourable for their budget and a way to allow them to finish it. So if you respect everything we've talked about, I repeat again anyway, there will be opportunities and in other situations, as my predecessor has not been introduced to elementary school because the National Educational Council has also put its negative opinion on it. So should the ministers and the government ignore the opinions of the bodies that you choose, then you really need to help me sort of overcome it. On the other hand, how did I convince the entire government? Well, simply because we have nothing against the opinion of the MPs or students or their interests. Since your power is greater, that's all we're talking about, so this is respect for some procedure and hierarchy, it's nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4087	Thank you. The word is by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4088	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I don't think there's any mistake here and in principle everything has been done in a good way. It would have been a mistake for me if the minister hadn't listened to our proposal, or if he hadn't accepted our amendment and the government hadn't accepted it. Why? Well, because even as the minister said, it is we who choose ministers, who choose the government, who have chosen that council, that they have the right to give advice, to point out something. Whether it will be accepted or not, it's not the minister's problem. The minister may at some point have taken their advice and it is nothing wrong. If he hadn't accepted what we said and asked me to act like one by accepting what the Council gave him, I would have resented him and said don't get involved in my business. It is good that the minister has accepted our suggestion, that is, the amendment that we have all submitted together in fact. No problem at all, I hope that future co-operation will be good.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4089	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4090	Ladies and gentlemen, of course, I suggest that the amendment be not accepted, but simply in discussions of some previous MPs, I must say that I am shocked, with the more the objections they have made to, let's say, at the procedure, the very peoples of the MPs who were the province's secretaries. I'm shocked. Mr. Minister, you have fully respected the procedure, and what has been said that the government has made a mistake, no government has made a mistake. Discrimination was nowhere, therefore, that word, I beg you in this high house, when we say to the students and to each other that we choose carefully what discrimination means. Gentlemen, there were two types of students, basic studies and doctoral studies. They're not exactly the same, we can get into a scientific discussion about it, but I don't think some people really have the competence to talk about what it means right now. Which is the weight of one, which is the weight of another. He was just about to get even and give the students a chance, and there's nothing wrong with it. I am surprised that someone is acting as a Messenger of the people, and does not know what the legislative authority is, what is the executive authority, what is the judgment, I am surprised at it. And he doesn't know why there's a National High Education Council. I have no intention of quoting the law I have here, but gentlemen of the People's Parliament, some who prove for three days what they will never be able to prove to me, not to you, but to professors of law school and students. In the end, not reasonable, Mr. Minister, it's hard to prove and reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4091	Word by MP Dusan Pavlovic Please, I'd like to know that you signed up, but you don't have the right to a replica. [[Marinika Tepic, from the place: Do I have the right to replica?]] Wait your turn.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4092	I read once again the first position of a member of 123 we change here – students enrolled in basic studies and studies at higher schools, etc., who started according to some curricula and programme and conditions and rules of study by the end of school 2015/2016 at the latest. years can finish these studies. When someone's in college and he's in college, that doesn't mean he's in college forever. He has to re-enter every year when he finishes his duties. So when you say no enrolment if you wrote it once at the beginning of the study, it's not true. So every year you have to write in next year. If you don't, you lose student status. Here, even Marijan Risticevic understands that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4093	The word is Marijan Rističević, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4094	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there's a big difference between knowledge and calling. I'm afraid the previous speaker only has a call. It's that I didn't finish high school design, it's that I didn't finish FPN, because that's where strange people ended up, strange people taught. It's that I didn't finish it, but I didn't take it so unskilled to teach the economy. I didn't go online as a geologist to become a forensic scientist. I finished my school. I didn't fake myself. Try to insult me, he needs to know that saying, I'll say that the difference between who graduated and the wise one is very great. I must remind you that a wise man, a wise man, and wisdom and calling is not the same, you cannot insult. He, with equal calm, receives both praises and sorrows. That's why I'm going to take the attempt to insult you quite peacefully. It is that I have not played in the group "Vampiri" and from vampires when he tries to insult me, I will accept it peacefully, with dignity, because unlike you, I am wise and I will remain wise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4095	The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4096	The Honorable Chairman, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, as one great esteemed colleague of ours would have said – since Matija Nenadovic, to this day, there has been no greater prime minister than Aleksandr Vukic. Why did I mention that? Not to quote this great wisdom, which has already entered the annals of our parliamentaryism, but for reasons to draw attention to the fact that the SNS is increasingly starting to look like a sinless Roman pope who has never admitted that anything in his history has been wrong. Neither does the SNS, even though they've been convincing me here all day, will admit that anything in her life has been wrong, let alone forgotten one whole group of graduate students, who wanted to discriminate against this proposal by amending and supplementing the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4097	Now let's talk about the amendment, colleague Obradovic, continue on the amendment. You had a political introduction.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4098	Mr. Chairman, it is precisely the point of my speech that this amendment, for which, as for all other amendments to the opposition that concerned the compensation of what the government has forgotten, which are graduate students, is an explanation that can also enter the annals of our parliamentaryism and which are read – the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the amendment to Article 1 of the bill submitted by MP Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic was accepted. So, you opposition have no need to exist at all, since there is Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic. You of the opposition, who have proposed and discovered what the government did not include in the bill, have no reason to be mentioned at all, nor that you exist, when there is Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic, who is actually going to present himself that he discovered it, instead of the opposition, that the government might not be on the pillar of shame that she forgot an entire category of students. I spent a lot of time today to figure out why Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic, but I don't think it's an accident and there's a reason why his amendment was accepted. I even think it's rightly done. Here, I will quote to you a very important sentence by Dr. Aleksandr Martinovic, who talks about it and says: "The Bologna system is not successful and we will initiate its abolition. We need to return traditional education," SRS Vice-President Aleksandar Martinovic said on March 27th 2012. (Zoran Krasic, from the place: What was wrong with that? He didn't do anything wrong, Mr. Krasic, on the contrary. I agree with him, and I believe that this amendment of him is only the first step towards abolishing this catastrophic Bologna reform of education in our country and that if that is why the government supported his amendment, we from the opposition, at least we from the Dveri parliamentary group are withdrawing, we support that it has accepted Martinovic's amendment and we hope that Minister Sarcevic will follow the trail of respected Dr Martinovic and indeed abolish the Bologna reform of our education, as a disastrous, harmful to our higher education. That's the point of what we're talking about here. Why Aleksandar Martinovic? What makes his amendment more beautiful, smarter, more capable, more creative, more quality than other amendments that have equally treated the same subject in the same way? Is it because you won't admit that the government is wrong because the government is sinless? She can't be wrong, because she's run by a man who's the greatest Serb since Prost Matija Nenadovic until today.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4099	My colleague, it's not about Alexander Vukic, it's about the amendment submitted by counterpart Marinika Tepic with counterparts Nenada Canka, Olena Papug and Hope Lazic. Please, you know that amendments cannot be submitted when the debate begins in principle.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4100	Okay. It is very important for us in this discussion, which is why the government rejected this amendment, which is why it accepted the amendment of Aleksandr Martinovic. This is the subject of my discussion because all our amendments have been rejected from the same reasoning – there is no need for your amendments, because we have accepted the amendment of Aleksandr Martinović. Wait, she could have said the opposite – there is no need for an amendment by Aleksandra Martinovic, because we accepted the amendment by Marinika Tepic. So the government has to keep the halo of sinlessness. Alexander Vukic has to keep an eagle man who's never made a mistake in his life, except for changing his ideology, betraying his godfather, changing his party... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4101	My colleague Obradovic, I have heard many times in this hall of Alexander Vukic said he was wrong about many things. There's no need to waste your time. The word has the People's MP Aleksandar Martinovic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4102	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Alexander Vukic, whom the previous speaker hates so much, was today in Kikinda at the opening of a new factory that will employ 2,000 unemployed people. In the past few days, he has visited all of southern Serbia. New contracts have been signed. You tell lies, slander, lie, hate, it's all human. We will work, we will reform Serbia, we will create new jobs. I've done a lot of things in my life, both right and wrong. Here, Mr. Beard, what did you do a few months ago? Here, Mr. Beard, what did you do a few months ago? Here are the photos of you beating your wife. Here are the photos you're throwing from the gallery. Here you go again beating a woman in King Milan's building. (Bosko Obradović, from town: I am interested. Who cares? Well, it's about the scientific public of Serbia, for example. Since the larger Serb, from Prota Mateja Nenadovic, to this day, from Boško Obradovic, is gone. Here's what the famous, great Serb said on election night. He quoted me, so come on, it's my turn to quote him. Says the great Serb Bosko Obradovic with all his Jasmin Vujic, who works at NASA: "How are you not ashamed? How dare you, Djurdjevic? You want to go out with that in front of the people? How come you're not embarrassed, man? Now they're starting to damage the results. Shame on you. You steal the voices of the people. Thieves, come on. Shame on you. “
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4103	You're bringing the end, my colleague Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4104	‘... Where are you running to? "or how would you say Bosko Obradovic - "where are you running? “ What are you running away for? What are you running from the people you're stealing? How can you not be ashamed? Well, what are you running for, if you're right? Come on. What are you running away Shame on you. You're stealing the voices of the people, he says, brah one and shame. You're seventy years old, shame. Come out before the people of P. One. “
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4105	I thank my colleague. (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: Just one more sentence. I don't have technical options... (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: Please complete this magnificent debate that will remain remembered in the analyses of Serbian parliamentarianism. ) The word has a National MP Bosko Obradović, right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4106	Mr. Chairman, is there any advantage to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, or has a colleague come forward, or not?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4107	She's a colleague of the marines. I didn't see it in the electronic logs. No problem. Here you go, breach of the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4108	Thank you, it's very easy, just look up from time to time. I'm advocating a violation of article 106. - The speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. Everyone's coming out, I totally understand, but this is really out of line. What the previous speaker, fellow MP Martinovic, began to quote, amounts, has nothing to do with the agenda item, nor with the amendment, not only because my amendment is still on the agenda, but I think you really, the chairman, had to react, at least in the second, third sentences when you estimate that this is not exactly the place to make inappropriate jokes and for this kind of political conflicts that are really not the place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4109	Thank you, colleague Tepic. Let me tell you something. counterpart Martinovic was not given the floor to talk about the amendment, but to replicate Bosca Obradovic. Then he doesn't have to stick to the subject of the agenda in replicas or do you want us to invent new rules here in parliament? So, it was the replica of Mr. Aleksandr Martinovic to Mr. Obradovic and in his replica, except for the insults, he has the right to say whatever he wants. That's how it's always been, before I became an MP, and I became a long time ago. Do you want the National Assembly to declare in the voting day? Yeah. All right. The word is by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4110	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I am fully agreed on this amendment that it should not be accepted, but something that surprised me with the speaker who explained the amendment is the majority attack of the SNS because it did not accept something the opposition wanted, etc. Could you vote that amendment without us? It's not your invention, you didn't invent that amendment. It was the merit of all of us, because we are unique in allowing all students to continue their education. It's not true that the government did something wrong, that she forgot someone, that she dropped someone. There was one suggestion. The government had an understanding and accepted what we suggested. So it's perfectly normal. One more thing, which really does surprise me so little, but surprising. I thought you were shaking your legs, not to say anything else, when you only hear about Alexander Wolf. Today I see that your problem is Alexander Martinovic. Tomorrow any Alexander you hear...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4111	Ambassador, I will not tolerate anyone else. It's about the amendment or nothing. (Ljubisa Stojmirović, from the post: About the amendment. Look for a replica, if it has a basis for replication, everyone will give it to you. The shivering leg isn't on the agenda. (Bosko Obradović, from town: Replica. You didn't get the replica. MEPs Balsa Bozovic and Goran Ciric jointly submitted to the 1st amendment. (Bosko Obradović, from town: Pictures. I'm not looking at the ball. Maybe somebody knows how to look at a ball. If I have anyone on the screen, I'll call. If I don't have anyone on the screen, I'm moving on. Since this morning, you could all wake up and do it right. I won't ask anyone to answer the word. National MP Zoran Krasic throws it away. You're absolutely right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4112	Thank you, President of the Assembly. I think it's very important that we get back on the agenda because we've lost a little bit of the essence, I think, in party bickering. We're being watched today by students who have enrolled in the old system of their studies. We're being watched, of course, by graduates. It remained uncertain to the end, but we also solved that part by becoming an integral part of the law and all the parliamentary groups agreed to it. There are other students who are enrolled in Bologna. We had a board today. I filed the amendment today, because I don't think we should discriminate against anyone. It is fair to help students who have enrolled in 2006, 2007 and 2008, which we often call experimental students, for the reasons we received, not only hundreds and hundreds of applications and letters, but for the simple reason that due to objective circumstances, chaos in higher education they simply failed. That doesn't mean they're less capable. That doesn't mean they're less smart. That doesn't mean they're less valuable. They're students who will lead this country tomorrow. These are people who deserve a chance, because they are not on the burden of the state, but they are savingly and regularly fulfilling and paying for their obligations. Hundreds of thousands of dinars have given so far, they and their parents, with expensive cash loans. We've driven many families into debt slavery, and I think it's very important for these people to meet us today. The amendment didn't go through, as I had the opportunity to see and read, but the minister promised the next solution. He's here, so we can confirm that. In accordance with Article 94(2), The law on higher education, so we transferred this part to colleges. We can't let that be just a recommendation this time. We think it's important that this be the instruction that colleges are going to integrate into their general act. I think it's very important that we conduct very clear surveillance of each individual case. I think this is the solution for them to continue studying, not to re-enlist, to be free, and that colleges have to do it. The minister promised it, and I sincerely believe in the will of the minister, this home and the committee to supervise along with those students. If there is one single case, which is not resolved by the university, that we all intervene together immediately, and that in this way, although I am sorry and sorry that it is not an integral part of the amendments and the addition of this law, we really solve their problems, by giving them the chance that tomorrow they might be presidents, presidents, they may be those who reform this society and this bad system, which clearly exists only to be paid by the students, and the system itself resists change. Don't let us protect our colleges at the expense of our students. Don't make colleges exist because of your personal, often financial interests. Let's keep knowledge in Serbia, so that these young people never come up with an idea to get out of the country, but to make sure that after the studies have been completed, which I am quite sure will end in the next year, give them the opportunity to get a job and start their families here and tie their fate to Serbia. I think it's important for the simple reason we talked about, not just the jump we have to make when it comes to development, not just the things we've long been behind, not just the reforms that are necessary to carry them out, but to really show these gestures, you, primarily the ministers, with our all-out help, that we're ready as a society to respond to all those anomalies in the system that exist today and that have led about 2,000 people, as far as I'm not wrong, to have a problem. They have one, two or four exams to re-enter from the beginning, that's total nonsense. That's what we agreed to. I'm sorry this isn't an integral part of the law, but I'm also glad that we're all together as a Committee on Education, Science and Technological Development have agreed to help them by giving them another year to finish their studies. We have a lot of letters, we have those who said they can't live that long in transportation from their places to the university, because they don't even have the money to rent an apartment, they don't have the money to rent a room, their parents are obviously poor, they don't have the money to self-finance, they support themselves, and then they have to work, so many health problems. One girl answered from the Kings, she was a regular student within the deadline she absorbed, the girl fell in love, she had a child of course with her boyfriend's current wife. The child had a certain motorbike disorder that they fought for three years to keep the child healthy and normal, and we must not punish them now for having succeeded in the greatest battle of their lives. Now we have to reward them and tell them you have another year's chance to finish your studies. I think there's a lot of cases like that. I think it's Parliament that has to monitors one side, check the quality on the other side, and of course, that these agreements that the Committee on Education, Science and Technological Development with the minister makes arrangements to simply monitor together because we really aim to help them. We express our doubts, we also said on the Committee, I was very clear here, we express our suspicion because when Mr. Zarko Obradovic was Minister of Education, it often happened that the Ministry said by recommendation or by some direction to the colleges to do something about it, the colleges went deaf. So the state is the founder. We need to know where the founder's rights are... .
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4113	You're moving on to group time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4114	Of course. I think it's also important to avoid this suspicion by controlling together and in three months' time we have a mandatory check on everything that's happened. So everyone has the right to extend for a year the study he has enrolled in Bologna, to complete the studies to be free, so we agreed, to allow them and to give them a chance to make up for what they missed because of objective circumstances. I think it is very important that people who represent not only Serbia's future, but people if we don't meet in this way will give up their studies. If we have 2,000 less finished, that means we'll have 2,000 less people with knowledge in our hands. It's not a diploma, it's a relationship with young people who are increasingly leaving our country today. So how do we stay relevant when it comes to knowledge not only in the region, but in the whole world, how do we stay academically relevant, and we want to aim, of course, to develop this country and change everything that is bad in it. We will need not only the political will of those who sit in this congregation today, but all future generations together. I think it's very important that we know what we're investing in, that we know how much every young man with the knowledge that leaves the country, how many people have left the country and how many billions of euros we've spent the most. It's very important that we know when it comes to projects where we invest money, whether it's a primary school, whether it's a state university, if it's these young people, if we have the opportunity to help them...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4115	Ambassador, as Gordana Komic would say, a little about the subject. By amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4116	with practices, with incentives for employment so that knowledge remains in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4117	MPs, about the subject. Gordana Komic warned me twice and sought to hurt the Rules of Procedure. I'm letting you go a lot, but just a little after 12 minutes on the subject. Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4118	The theme is that for those 2,000 people we really do everything possible to complete their studies. Once again, I ask the Minister to make a public promise on what we agreed on on the Committee on Education, Science and Technological Development and to implement this in good faith. I think it's literally about the future because I believe in them. I believe in them because tomorrow they'll be better than the best students today. I think our country, this parliament, your ministry and you personally owe them that much. One pressure on the taster was at stake. All right, they won't vote on it, but let's just make sure that it's a guide so that it still obliges those who are funding money all this time and expensive loans to both students and their parents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4119	I'm not running away from what Mr. Bozovic was saying. Together, on the Committee on Education, Science and Technological Society, we mentioned one of the ways, so neither the Ministry nor the Government forgot any category of students, nor graduates, but I am talking about procedures and this category required a different procedure, because the amendments to the law would change the system law relating to Bologna. If we're going to change it, let's change it entirely when the time comes, but now we have a chance to have a solution in the law. That's what all the lawyers warned me about two months ago, and I sent emails to those students two months ago to report to the legal services of their colleges, if they needed any extra help, the Ministry of Education's legal services. There's our lawyers. Of course I'm making a promise, I've already shown that I've kept my promise, first of all to the unions when it comes to primary and secondary schools, because we have three and a half thousand more people who are technologically surpluses and we go to school, place by place. The manipulation of any director or any inspector or any school administration will be expelled. The same thing we're talking about is a moral spirit for these students the way you formulated it, it's said on the Committee, so all our members, colleagues from all parties, agreed. I am satisfied in one hand, because the will of all parties and opposition has been adopted, not only when it comes to this category, but also about the first two categories and then graduates and graduates or PhDs. So on my side, just one more comment, if I have more time. A colleague mentioned that Belgrade University is working to amend the law. Of course we'll respect all the institutions, all those universities, all the groups, we're making a team, we'll do it in cooperation with them, so there's no confusion in the public that we've authorized only Belgrade to do it. There are other universities, there are individuals, there are groups, but the job bearer is the Ministry of Education and what's more important to me to tell you, this is what I found at the Ministry of Education and with the existing laws we have a problem implementing. So not only will we bring in new ones, but one responsible ministry and a government that will implement them.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4120	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4121	Dear fellow Members of Parliament, I absolutely support and believe that this amendment should be accepted by fellow Members of Parliament for a simple reason so as not to be wronged by another group of students, so-called "Students". They were registered after the adoption of the Law on Higher Education in 2005. We corrected the government's mistake by discriminating graduate students in Master's and Doctoral Studies, and it would be our turn to correct this amendment with this possible mistake and discrimination against students of the patients who signed up in 2006 and 2007. Why are we particularly sensitive to this category of students who are discriminated against by these amendments to the Law on Higher Education? Because it's the victim of an experiment of Bologna reform. In this generation, a Bolognan reform of higher education was applied in Serbia and in 2006 at 2007, and this generation was an experimental generation in this famous and catastrophic Bologna Western reform of our education. I think that's why we should all have a little more understanding for this generation together. There are two problems with this generation that I want to point out specifically. Today, as long as it's been time for us to discuss a little with Mr. Minister about it with the Education Committee, but I think they're of great importance, of the interest of this student population. The first thing is - why they are not granted an extension of studies, and it is approved by students under the old programme who have enrolled several years before their studies. So why would they be discriminated against? The only reason why they, is whether or not they've signed up for Bologna, so they don't have to be subject to what years in writing, although it's named after the old program, it doesn't matter how many years they've written down before, and here they get an extension. So that's the first basis by which they are discriminated here. For them, too, an extension should be applied, especially I repeat, because they were the victims of the experiment, which they were the test horses of someone else's then, I don't know, but whose dosage, western, sorosevic or what other Mr. Zivkovic's reform of higher education. It's time for someone to take responsibility, so now you agree that you've ruled so far, who's to blame for the catastrophic Bologna reform. What is an additional problem here that we discussed today on the Education Committee, which I think should really draw attention to all of you from the ruling majority and I'm sure you'll understand what it is and that you might change your mind and support this amendment. Namely, what's this about? These students, in your explanation, which the Government refuses this amendment, are told – the amendment is not accepted for reasons where a student is enrolled in the first year of primary studies of the school 2006/2007 and 2007/2008 respectively. the year shall cease student status in accordance with Article 94(1) point 4. The Law on Higher Education, it has the opportunity to complete studies in accordance with Article 85 paragraph 7 of the Law, i.e. Article 94 paragraph 2 of the Law. You have spoken here – he has the opportunity to finish his studies, but how? With that brilliant invention that you came up with, and that's the requisition of the so-called. So, he practically interrupts his studies so far, re-enters studies in the Bologna process and gets a new eight or nine years for those studies. What does that mean for him specifically? This means primarily the registration, the cost of re-entering, the new index and all the other costs he has and the risk that the university will work on a new study programme, or harmonize what he passed on from the subject, which is not because in the meantime the Bologna process has changed, give him some new items to pass, extend his term of completion of study in this way? It is not in the same status as students under the old programme who are authorised to continue their studies without any obstacles. In front of these students, you put these two potential obstacles. The first is that colleges set up a high membership fee, or a high new enrolment. Secondly, to burden them with additional items that have been introduced for any reason and to repay and complicate the completion of studies. With this amendment, and the same amendment has been proposed by the Dveri parliamentary group, namely the MPs Dragan Vesovic from our parliamentary group, we prevent it. We prevent discrimination against these students, and we give them the possibility that they can continue their studies for the next two years without a new enrolment, without changing the study programme and everything else. I think it's pretty clear, pretty simple, pretty fair. I don't see any reason why we can't all raise our hands together for this amendment no matter what MP group it comes from. I'm defending him now even though he's not an amendment to the Dverry, and we have a similar or almost identical amendment, because I think it's a good amendment, I think he's preventing another discrimination, and I think he's coming out, as it turns out, I don't know if that information Mr. Minister is correct, the number of 2,000 students who were victims of the Bologna experiment. There's another problem with them that draws attention to their memos. A number of them are when he enrolled studies in 2006 or 2007 by so-called Bolonji studied, and often people didn't even know it, according to an unaccredited program and happened to finish their studies, that they should take a degree and that the university tells them – so you can't get a degree, you've studied under an unaccredited programme, because it's never accredited to that program of their Bologna study.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4122	You're moving on to group time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4123	Thank you. Let me get this straight. Over these students, and this is not a small number, if the exact fact that 2000 of them was carried out is a large "reform of education" which was nothing more than an experiment by Western models, regardless of the traditions of our education. I called on Mr. Martinovic's quote from his radical era when he claimed what I now say is disastrous and that it should be annulled and abolished. And I agree with him. In order to repay at least a little of the people who have served for the experiment with some kind of fellow scholarships, psychologists and educators who have led our education ministries since 2000, it is at least a chance to extend their studies without a new enrolment, without changing the study programme, and all of this allows for the next two years of this amendment. I think I've shown you in a very plastic way very clearly without any political moment in any way why we need to round up this debate by preventing any discrimination from any group of students. We've corrected one thing with your proposal to amend and supplement the law that the government has proposed, which we've all supported. We have corrected another potential discrimination with this amendment, and here is Martinovic, who we will all support. And now to correct this third potential discrimination against students who enrolled in 2006 and 2007 because they were victims of this Bologna reform that is disastrous for Serbian higher education. I urge you from the ruling majority to take this as a well-intentioned proposal and to help a group of 2,000 students to have the same rights as those who have entered the studies far before them and who have not been victims of any experiment in higher education. I hope you will support this idea no matter what comes from the opposition ranks. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4124	He didn't mention you. Did he mention you on the escalator, the worst possible?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4125	It's the worst possible. I was mentioned by a younger colleague in one effort and the tension of demagogy trying to return Serbia to its 19th century party in a way that tried to collect some points. I want him to succeed. That part of the electoral body better go to you than the other side. You're still young and you'll be able to change your mind. We already see that in our practice. But let me say that from 2000 to 2004, since I was mentioned, how much I participated in the executive government, there was no preparation for implementing the Bologna Declaration and higher education by the system. Just now, a member of parliament mentioned on-call the late Gus Knezevic's minister in the worst sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4126	Replicate Bosca Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4127	Of course that's what I'm referring to, which is the same thing that's completely inappropriate. So, the government of Zoran Djindjic, which I've been including that part of the last year when I led her to have nothing to do with Bologna, but I still don't think it's a bad system. This is not a bad system and you said that it is bad, that you are insulting at least six generations of young people who have completed their colleges in this system and who are working successfully in the country and out of the country today, who have therefore improved the learning process, the process of science, the process of production, any process of life in our country and this demagogy, regardless of its sweetness, can sometimes be very offensive and bad for what is called the interest of Serbia and its citizens. So, please, I don't want to change your ideological course, but just watch your language sometimes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4128	Thank you very much. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4129	I am deeply interested in finding out then who is responsible for this Bologna reform, because this is how it will turn out that everyone washes their hands and that none of the actors on the political scene of Serbia has anything to do with Bologna and is not to blame for Bologna. So, if it's not DS or Zoran Zivkovic's fault, let's see who's guilty and see why we haven't fully corrected the consequences of such bad Bologna reforms, and I've also seen and quoted the opinion of the esteemed colleague Aleksandr Martinovic, who agrees completely with me, if he hasn't changed his mind for these four or five years, that this Bologna is a disaster and that it needs to be abolished. Here, in fact, as a problem spoken of by Mr. Zivkovic, I can point out another thing, which is that, thanks to such a Bologna reform of higher education, we have lost the academic and any other intellectual responsibility of our students, and since that time we have not had a serious student protest on any serious national or political topic. So they've entertained the students so well with bolonian colloquiums and all sorts of other things, that you have ten generations that haven't interfered with any serious political, social, state and national topic. I don't remember generations of Serbian students before Bologna who were not active in saying their position when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, when it comes to any other major national political and state issues. Since the start of a reform of the Bologna process, Serbian students have not had a political stance since then, Serbian students have not been making demonstrations against the authorities, since then Serbian students have only cared about education, under allegations, and in fact, they have been driven out of any social responsibility in any other way, which has always been one of the purposes of studying and was highly appreciated by students' attitude.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4130	Okay. Slobodan Vuksanovic, answer your question, government of Vojislav Kostunica. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4131	Dear President, of course I suggest that this amendment be rejected and I think Mr. Minister has explained well the position of our members of the Committee and what we want to help these students, but I'm surprised, Madam President, that we have been listening to some really false things all along when it comes to the government. For example, I quote the previous speaker, says – the government is discriminating. No discrimination has been made, despite Mr. Minister explaining the democratic procedure he is and mixing here with the grandmothers and frogs, and the MP who interferes with this, he doesn't care about this right now, he cares about populism. We're talking about curricula and programs here, gentlemen. It has nothing to do with Bologna and this second one, it's completely two different programs and teachers and colleagues who look at us and listen to wonders, here's a text message, wondering what we're talking about. I can truly have an understanding for those who don't work in higher education, but I can't, please, for university professors who should know what this is about. So there's no discrimination and it's about plans and programmes and it's from 1946 to today. All the reforms that have been carried out, you who are engaged in the history of education and pedagogical ideas know very well that even then and now the students who have enrolled studies according to the started curricula and the program have ended and this is what this is about. But no matter what, the minister explained the position of our committee well, but I'm surprised that one representative of a minor political party, I think the "door" party is called, that in two and a half minutes today he mentioned four times the Prime Minister and the criticism, in the last session in three minutes...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4132	Ambassador, be kind, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4133	Let me just go back, 'cause this was in the box, just to answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4134	Yes, but don't answer, please, just about the amendment. Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4135	Well, here, as part of the amendment. So it's about students, and the previous representative of this party was talking about students and in three minutes, instead of students, he was criticising the Prime Minister, and he's known for being forced to break through a high-school chimney and pressured the election commission here. Thank you very much. I suggest that this amendment be rejected.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4136	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Jasmina Nikolic. (Bosko Obradović, from town: Replica. He mentioned the name of the party. He mentioned the door. ) He said “door. ” Will you, Jasmine, speak, not? I don't care.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4137	How much time do we have, if it's not a problem, can you tell me?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4138	Are you authorized? Two minutes and ten seconds, and group nine.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4139	Okay. Will you just give it back?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4140	I don't understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4141	To get the time back, since it's gone for 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4142	What do I do?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4143	If you don't mind, just give it back because it's gone for 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4144	Don't turn on the microphone next time, ask me something, and then say it's not from time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4145	Yeah, but those 20 seconds that my colleague Obradovic was saying before I started talking. I don't mean from the moment I did.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4146	I don't understand. You've gone on for 50 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4147	It doesn't matter. It's okay. As for the patients, therefore, it is difficult to establish a principle when it comes to extending a deadline in which we do not have good analysis and we do not have good data. In principle, for these students who are now in line, we can tell them that they are running out of time to complete their studies under the current law. Personally, I think the same principle should apply, since the same arguments apply, which will say that these students, in my opinion, can continue and should continue their studies, of course, at no extra cost. In that sense, the amendment is good, and the decision we made today on the Education Committee solves the problem of these students. What might be good about this amendment not being adopted, I must say, is the fact that if we started the practice of adopting amendments and for students after a new one, as we did far from 2008 for students of old, it is very possible that, under the pressure of a system that cannot be adapted well enough to implement the provisions, that we would come into a situation to extend the deadline to them. My point here is that students, they're least responsible, so absolutely least responsible. Students must not be damaged to the extent that it is the system that sets the rules for students, or the system that has failed to learn anything from its own mistakes for ten years, I must say. It doesn't matter what government it was. We're doing the same thing for the fifth time, which means we haven't learned where we were wrong in the last four. So if we continue to practice, it is highly likely that this system will not be a good framework and good leadership for students who are now studying. So that's our obligation. I also think of the promoter, i.e. the Ministry, and of the Assembly that discusses it, to make sure that these laws are right, so that students can really, within the system, exercise their rights, not that the system is practically under pressure from a group of individuals because there is no adequate response. The bologna is most likely not well implemented. The bologna is most likely not implemented by being well prepared. At the level of action, I can testify to that, Bologna was not prepared at all. People were practically thrown into the fire, I mean professors. There are teachers among us, they know what it looked like, where they just got what they needed to do. But it doesn't matter. What's important now is that it's not repeated, so the things that change are things that are well prepared, that there are action plans, that there are measurable things and that we do what we can to do with these provisions of this law, to collect data, if anything else. Another important thing is that, in addition to this data that we collect, an analysis of the implementation of Bologna and its problems will be carried out at some point. Because what do I suspect? Yes, let's say, among the students who are new, who are probably not going to extend the deadline today, because this amendment will not, I suppose, be adopted, it doesn't matter, there's been a decision taken, that there are students who have moved from the old programme to the new programme and yet again, so they're practically continuing to study on the new one, and they've had those problems that they've brought with them while they've studied according to the old one. So it's important that the system works. It is important to set rules that are the same for everyone, it is important that these rules are applicable and it is important that students have a framework and a leader. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4148	The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4149	President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to this amendment, I just want to say that we on the Committee on Education refused that amendment and that the vote was unanimous. The votes and other political options that are here today, which are in the ranks of the opposition. But I have to say that there was indeed a nice pawnage which was not colored by politics by Mr Bozovic, in favour of solving the problems of these first patients who entered 2006, 2007 and who did not sign up for the deadline and who are now subject to re-enlistment and will have a lot of problems about new programmes, perhaps, if the programmes change and monetary difficulties, material difficulties, etc., that in addition to such a single pawn we also had in the same way, the pawning of Prof. Stojmirovic, then Professor Žarko Obradovica, all MPs who are part of the Committee. That Mr. Sarcevic has accepted one conclusion that stemmed from such an overall commitment to make one instruction at the level of the ministry that will be binding and that will be addressed to the colleges by this issue in a different way, the unmarked cost of re-enquirement, without changing the study programmes of new ones, etc., but that these old ones are valid and that in such a way we do not touch a law that deals with the issue of the Bologna programme. We're going to do this already maybe very quickly or next year in a whole way. So, if we all agreed by consensus within the Committee and that there were representatives of the opposition who are now discussing and agreeing on this, I think that after such an effort, after such an agreement, one conclusion in which we all agreed on behalf, so to speak, to the entire Parliament, of course, I do not exclude the individual opinions of the MPs, although the minister has agreed with it and he has confirmed here, I think that we are overly discussing them in this direction, and that they were actually Members of Parliament and this Assembly, and that in a possible way they took care and take care of these students and the first female students who should certainly be accounted for, given that they were first in line to try out in this new and unknown programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4150	Thank you. The word is by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4151	Dear colleagues and colleagues, as well as most MPs, and I agree that this amendment cannot be accepted, but it has been a pleasure and a pleasure to watch and listen to the discussion on the Committee on Education, where we have indeed all found ourselves about one solution that we have shared that is at this point the most favourable for the bologna. I completely agree that the bologna has caused chaos in our education system. As my colleague said he spoke Martinovic ten years ago, so did I, and now I think so. There is a difference between Martinovic and a colleague who mentioned him on the subject, which Martinovic was a visionary and noticed ten years ago, and some today came from the heel to the head to realize that the pain was a problem. But as our people say, a child was born, he should be rocked. So we, too, were forced to apply this bologna, to work on the bologna, many colleges failed, many colleges did it in other ways, not even as the bologna says, and as it is, we have to admit, that's how students suffered. It's the Ministry that now through the new law on higher education, solves these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4152	The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4153	Thank you. Col. Stojmirovic says we agreed that this is the best solution. The best solution would be to include it in the law, as included for pre-patient students, to call them. This is not even the best solution, this is just a satisfactory solution because, if you went without this conclusion that we agreed this morning, the truth, as it was originally proposed, these people would really give up on studying, because they would have cost over 100,000 dinars and they simply can't finance. It would be best if the amendment were accepted, it would be best if their rights were included in the law, but since, here, you say -- we agreed that it couldn't be accepted, I don't know why it couldn't be accepted, but here, it can't be accepted the amendment, so, come on, at least this way. By asking the minister to really take seriously how we formulated it, or how we're just going to formulate increased supervision, or special attention that will pay the students a lot of the costs they may not have to pay, so I think you should pay particular attention to the fact that the instructions you're about to give them are really binding and that you take this very seriously, our agreement and our conclusion, that you inform us about how this regulation is applied. And as for Mr. Martinovic's visionaryism, Mr. Stojmirovic, a lot of things Mr. Martinovic spoke about 10 years ago, and about Vukic and Toma Nikolic, don't let it come from the heel to the head.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4154	The word is by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. You want a replica or an amendment? It's a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4155	I'm staying with what I said, that it's really optimal at this point that we could do. I agree with my colleague that what's agreed has to be done, but we won't leave it to the minister. The minister answers us, we'll ask him, we'll chase the Ministry to show us, and the students themselves need to be aware, to inform us of any irregularities in every university. As I mentioned earlier, the Faculty of Political Sciences, where their deadlines are indeed in five days two deadlines, it's outrageous. I was surprised, well, I've been in high school for so many years, and for the first time I've heard both the June and July exam deadlines in five days, twice. It's something that's gonna get to us, and we're gonna transfer here and ask the minister. I said earlier, I'm not letting the minister get involved in my business and I'm not going to let anyone interfere in my business, I'm going to try and ask the Ministry, as a minister, from a member of the Education Committee to really get those students to meet. I told my colleague Martinovic he was a visionary about this issue. For these other claims of his we can talk and we'll see.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4156	Thank you. Parliamentarian Marija Janjusevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4157	I thank the chairman. I will give my two minutes to our students and read the letter – Dear Members of the Government, I address you on behalf of a generation of students whose deadline for completion of the study was 30th September of this year of all state universities and universities in Serbia under an uncredited programme. I'm stressing this unaccredited because those kids didn't know at the time, nobody told them until the end of the study that they weren't actually studying by the so-called. The Bologna system, and all the time they believed they would end up getting accredited diplomas. What was happening is very easy to check at the colleges themselves, and by chance and without checking it out, it is clear that the Bologna system has not been properly applied since the very beginning. The car has broken into the generations mentioned above, which many, and already they call themselves experimental. So, the test of the generation, the test generation, whatever you want, but precisely those in Serbia, which there are several thousand now, can run out of diploma and have nothing to try for. These young people, our fellow citizens, academics, whom we want to be proud of, have after all a feeling as if they've been put there by some in one folder that says rehearsal. Ninety percent, if not more, of these students no more than two or three exams until the end of school. Now that they've been hit by all this, the application of the new system, the bad organisation and the unpreparedness of their colleges for such a step in the adoption of the new system, they still needed this with a law that didn't exactly go into their hands in all this trouble. So they're not so-called. The Bolognas, and the law treats them as if they are, will not receive an accredited degree, because their system is not accredited. failed to make it by the end of their fourth year of study. Thank you. I'm not gonna waste group time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4158	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Sveto Peric. Do you want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4159	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I'm a little surprised that this amendment has not been accepted because it is a positive amendment. By reading your biography, we want you to believe that you will try to do everything you can in education. But given the problems you inherited, those that many before you have created, I am absolutely certain that this deadline with which you have come before the MPs will not be objectively possible to respect. That's why we suggested one category of students to extend by another year. In the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law, it was – school 2015/2016 and 2016/2017 respectively. A year. We suggest that it be extended by another year. I don't understand why it wasn't accepted. When listened to on the side, it would be said that students have made a mistake here, but you understand, Serbia is not just Belgrade. There are inhabited places, there are villages in Serbia where no one has studied or studied before, and this is not all clear to them. We have one law, and not counting when he was brought in 2005, we had six amendments and two authentic interpretations, and I'm not sure there's gonna be any need for another authentic interpretation after this law is passed. So, you won't be able to do it, even though we say you do what you planned to do, to bring in, as you stated in your explanation -- no amendment is accepted for the reason that it is in preparation for the adoption of a completely new law. Although we know that high education is of particular importance to Serbia, we also have a lot of problems in the basic education of the unresolved. Mr. Minister, in order to save a little bit, this is probably on your desk, because your predecessor has committed a local self-government to compensate for the transportation of children to primary school. There's no higher education without elementary and then high school. We've got one problem. I don't want to talk, because in the school administration, the problem that needs to be solved, where local self-government, in a completely inappropriate way, I would say even an uncivilized way, has interfered with the selection of members of the school board from the parent council. That went towards the school board. I think these days they called, informed. The school plan could not be adopted until 15 September, i.e. the work plan for school 2016/2017. A year until September 15th when otherwise a commitment because local self-government was obstructing the school board. You see, elementary school got involved in something. What? I have no idea. That is why, in your ministry from 92, 94 to 96% of the total funds defined for the budget of the Ministry of Education are on the payroll, although the salaries of educational workers are in the largest number of cases small. You can't do that, even though you'd like anything. The problem has arisen before you. Your ambitions can only remain in attempt. It's not Bologna for Serbia. Someone said the emperors sent their sons abroad to study. Yes, they did, both in Rome, in Vienna, and in Paris, and elsewhere, but they didn't study there in textbooks and Serbian regulations, but they did according to the regulations of the country they went to. That is how we must have the education system, from basic to high, because we are talking about higher education and we are talking about adapting to our needs, to the needs of Serbian citizens. That would be the best way and the best proof that we can expect students to fight back. It's not the students' fault. They've had frequent changes and some experiments, and I accept that it's probably a fact, or story that most of the students had their own life stories and difficulties and couldn't finish their basic studies within the scheduled time. It would suit them the most, not the professors, not anyone else. Students and their parents are most suited to complete basic studies, if possible, even in the short term, as Mrkonjic would say. That'd be good. But apparently, some of them said here, they boasted maybe, I don't dispute that, if they hadn't used the Committee, that this problem would have been solved in a good and valid way. Apparently, they didn't do it originally. I'm not denying their decision to resolve it, but the fact is that a large number of students stayed out of this category until it was amended to intervene. This suggests that the attempt to paint did not give the expected result. So I doubt you'll be in a position to solve this problem by the next school year. You will certainly not succeed because the climate in Serbia is not such that it could be resolved. In your will and purpose, I have no doubt at all, or at this point I will not doubt it, but it is certain that you cannot. I think this amendment should have been accepted, because it's positive and in a good way it would have solved students' problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4160	You've wasted group time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4161	That's too bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4162	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4163	I don't just mean to give you an answer, but simply, I am obliged to mention that there are already expert teams for reforming higher education and that even in this assembly hall we have two people who participate. They'll know who I'm talking about. So he's not a bologna of sacred cows either. These, indeed, all issues related to the overall reform and where we want it to go, both high and primary and secondary education are open topics. It's not bad to look at good international models. We're not the smartest guys in the world either. But the frames, the ways and the deadlines, I guess we're doing it ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4164	Thank you. National MP Dragan Vesovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The word is made by MP Dragan Vesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4165	Thank you, Madam Chairman. When we started talking about changing this law two days ago, of course, I knew then that I had submitted the amendment and I had no doubt that the amendment as such would be rejected, unfortunately, for at least two reasons. The first reason is because it is submitted by the opposition, and the second reason is that, according to one of the distinguished colleagues from the most numerous parliamentary group, a decision has been made to do so. I've been targeting three groups. Mr. Secretary will remember when we talked about it. The first group was – students enrolled before the start of Bologna and this was covered by the first proposal that the government came before us. I told you when I spoke in the discussion in principle about the second group, about a group of those who enrolled in postgraduate studies. I see that this amendment has been accepted, and then I deliberately did not talk about this group of bolognas that were entered in 2006/2007, 2007/2008. and 2008/2009. the years, which the amendment I have submitted covers. I didn't talk because I felt the need to explain their case a little bit more. We just had a discussion that way. Because what's going on here now? When they have enrolled in the Faculty of Bologna, it is predicted that if their basic programme lasts for four years, they must graduate from college in eight years, and if they have a master, they should finish it in ten years. Those entered in 2006/2007. The year of nine years has already expired, where at one point the university remembered to extend those eight for another year to allow them to finish. And now, in any case, trying to, you're going to let me maybe even a little rougher word, trying to make things right, seeing that six times there have been changes, so someone's been messing up somewhere, when, where, where, it's hard to figure it out, these current ones are always going to call on the exes, and the exes are going to say that these guys have had a lot of time to fix something in their visions that are already five years. We'll always have a problem. So, now that the group is registered 2006/07, after eight plus one year, it's been nine years, they've gone to re-up. The requisition entered at least three problems, something would be negative, something positive discrimination. It is negative that the re-enlistment had to be exposed to additional financial resources, to re-enter. It's negative that maybe in all of that college, he's going to change the study program, and he's going to impose new items on them, and what's positive for them? Well, for them, it's positive that they got a new eight-year requisition. So now their study can last 18 years. We asked, that is, by submitting this amendment I asked that this period of eight plus one, as they had already had, be held for another two years to put on them the same situation as those students who had not been enrolled under the Bologna programme. Unfortunately, I can see that there is no will in the ruling majority to think about this. I am grateful to you as Minister for achieving a transitional solution on this morning's committee with all the members of the Committee. It won't eliminate these irregularities that I'm talking about. I thought this way we'd be able to bring everything and those before 2005 and this one after 2005, so, the tighter bologna to the same level, to the same plane. It's not too late for the ruling majority to think about it. Maybe this is a good amendment, no matter what someone from the opposition suggested. I am disappointed, dear colleague Atlagic, that you, as a man of history, do not know what the court is and what the door is. There's no reason...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4166	You didn't get the right to a replica. You ask for it honestly, you get it. The word is Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4167	Thank you. I mean, there's a very big fight behind us for the rights of these bolognas who really found themselves in that situation where they were least credited. You know for a fact that the colleges applied Bologna differently, they didn't even start doing it at the same time, they didn't do it the same way. The bologna may not be bad as a system, someone says it is, someone says it isn't, but it's not applied properly anyway. My colleague Balsa Bozovic, I think, has achieved great success because he managed to reach this agreement only by listening to those people who wrote to us all days and nights with dozens of letters. You advised them and you said. They didn't all hear your advice, and that's why I have one very important question. Since many colleges are different by applying regulations again, someone was waiting for us to pass the law, someone didn't... In many universities, the deadline for re-enlistment expires tomorrow and many have already re-enlisted, many are waiting to see what we are going to decide today, and I am therefore interested in when you will send the instructions to the colleges. Our conclusion was adopted this morning as the Committee's conclusion. You don't have to wait for the law to adopt to do that. What will happen to those who have already paid re-entry costs, and now the colleges are being instructed that there will be no re-re-scribing costs? Please just answer me when you're going to send colleges this binding instruction because tomorrow, it expires in many of the re-unification colleges, and what about students who have already paid the cost of re-entry at the moment when colleges are instructed not to charge for it?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4168	Thank you. You'll get the time when I've allowed the MP. So in 30 seconds, 'cause I broke it off.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4169	Thank you. I really had no intention of offending anyone, but by respecting you, Madam President, as president of the National Assembly, before this session, a word of foreign language was used at the previous session, and you asked what that meant. One MP said our word, saying I speak Serbian here, I like Russia, but I prefer Serbia, and the two are still Russian, but the door is Serbian.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4170	Thank you very much. National MP Zoran Zivkovic submitted to the 4th amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4171	The amendment proposes to delete the word from Article 4, i.e. to change the text, but it is essential to delete the word "self-sufficient" and to read "high school institutions will bring their general acts into line with this law within three months of the date of entry into force of this law. “ The explanation that the text containing the term "self-sufficient" refers to universities, and therefore there is no direct obligation of the university to bring their acts into line with this proposal, if the minister listens to me. In an explanation for the refusal of this proposal, the government says - the amendment is not accepted because independent higher education institutions have an integral function compared to higher education institutions in its composition. First, it is written “in their system, ” if it is plural. Therefore, it is very bad that an illiterate text comes from the Ministry of Education, even if it was signed by the Prime Minister, this infallible Vukic, but apparently the answer is stored in the Ministry of Education. So it's written "in their composition", not "in hers," but more importantly, I think it's wrong that the government refuses to accept the amendment here, and the present minister who precisely defines what the college's obligation is, without leaving an option for the integration of the university to lead to all colleges implementing these amendments to the law. If some college doesn't do it, he doesn't answer to anyone, it's the university's fault.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4172	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4173	Just one more sentence. Students have a problem with colleges, not the university. I invite you to take another look at this solution. It has no political background, only to specify the text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4174	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4175	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will consider voting for this amendment, for collegiate reasons. Since he's deeply minded, I believe it's been coming up with more of them. I expected my fellow agricultural colleagues to have something to say on the reasons for the amendments about the availability of schooling in the country. In view of the poverty, which is present, given that the village has grown old, given this, and I expected some of the patriotic parties, that the village has always given, fed, defended, and that at this moment it is a very difficult position, that 400,000 citizens have lost their jobs during the time of the party's former regime and that most of them are from the village or have returned to the village or the unemployed are going to the urban suburbs, where metropolis has done their job, I expected my fellow farmer to say something about it too. I will support that fact and say that all our greats were born in the country. So, I also ask Mr. Minister to consider about this amendment the availability of education, especially high, because the system should be strict, applicable, fair, but first of all it should be available to everyone, especially these poor people who have fewer chances of schooling in high schools. That's what the statistics show. I was expecting to hear something about the previous amendment. In view of Tesla, Pupina, Vuk Karadzic, Doberica Cosic and my fellow farmer, to all these giants, I expected...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4176	Ambassador, the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4177	I will consider whether to vote for this amendment, given that one of the greats proposed this amendment, but I don't think the text is complete and that he should have devoted something to the village. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4178	Thank you. The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov. You want to get the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4179	Thank you. The minister did not answer me, I repeat the question – when will you send this instruction? The deadline ends tomorrow, and the other is the same about what Mr. Zivkovic asked. If colleges don't respect it, what are the sanctions, who are they responding to, and how does this system work, what does yours and our enhanced supervision actually mean?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4180	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4181	There's no dispute that we're going to send a notice tomorrow, first to the university, so it has to go on its own because that word isn't too high, and then when universities do their act, they go to colleges. When it comes to the power of the Ministry of Education with us, just money, and if it's just then, it's not that and it's just a little bit. I'm kidding. We will most likely send a full instructions Monday, when tomorrow and the day for the vote and everything else. But we will send that instruction to know what to expect, but most of us will watch the transmission. Of course, as in the case of masters and doctors of science studying under the old program, we'll be looking for a refund here.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4182	Thank you. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4183	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4, and as far as I can see, this is the last amendment to this bill. Apparently, this is just one routine law where certain deadlines should be extended to meet students once again. However, that is not the case, especially with regard to my amendment. The principled majority of people in this room agree to meet students, extend that deadline to complete their colleges within the legal deadline, but believe me, that's not the problem at all. For what? There are many who will not be able to finish colleges within this scheduled deadline. I'm not talking about senior students, that category of senior students. The senior students are the ones who get stuck in the first or second year and have long done other jobs, only formally being held as students, and there are many who really are students who have brought their studies almost to an end, but for some objective reasons they have failed to do so. Here, I got an e-mail from a student who has an average of almost nine. I'm not going to tell her where her name is from, since the 47 exams she's scheduled for her college, she's passed 43 and she's not in a situation yet, maybe not, to point out the nature of her problems, is not in a situation to end it. We will certainly be in a situation or next year at this time to extend those deadlines, and in this sense I have submitted an amendment that colleges need better and more precise ways to define what they are in that case. We know that when we recognize the exams from the study course to the...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-20-0.u4184	Thank you, you've spent both your time and your groups and yours to explain the amendments. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Resume session tomorrow at 10:00 p.m. (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: Why tomorrow? Because tomorrow's workday. Continuing because parliamentary groups have proposed amendments to their committees or something, so that we can allow them to change that. So, if this is 10:00, we'll vote right after that. Be prepared as if it were a vote. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia this year. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 130 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the Members of Parliament to insert your cards into the MPs' units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 165 MPs are present in the hall and that we have working conditions. I remind you that I have suggested that, in an urgent procedure, the draft decision to amend the Decision on the establishment of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 12 October 2016, on the proposal of the Social Democratic Party, which replaces one of its members and replaces it by regular procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: 17 MPs did not vote for – 160 against – no one with abstentions. I find that this proposal has been accepted. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up on this point? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm closing the debate. In view of the honourable MPs, that the National Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, given that it has already decided on the first three points of the agenda, according to Article 87. Item 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set Friday 21 October 2016, starting at 10 and 10 a.m. as a day for voting on the remaining agenda points of the Second Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Dear MPs, before we move to decision-making, I ask you to re-establish the quorum. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 164 MPs are present in the hall and that we can approach the vote. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 161 against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 24 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Seven MPs from the Socialist Party of Serbia have submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – 17, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 170 MPs. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 1st amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Miladin Sevarlic, Jasmina Nikolic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – 33, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 155 MPs. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Marko Milenkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: no one, the abstentioned, voted 159 MPs for – 30. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: no one, the abstentioned, voted 159 MPs for – 30. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Jahja Fehratovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: 173 MPs did not vote for – 16, against – the abstentioned ones. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – 21, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 168 MPs. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 37, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted with 152 MPs. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. National MP Milan Lapčević submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 27, no one, with abstentions, voted 162 MPs. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Four MPs from the LSV Group – the Green Party submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 171 MPs. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and Goran Ćirić. I am putting the amendments to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 34, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 MPs. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. National MP Marija Janjusevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 165 MPs for – 24, against. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, with abstentions, voted 182 MPs for – seven against. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. National MP Dragan Vesovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 169 MPs. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 27, no one, with abstentions, voted 162 MPs. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that there are no other members of the Parliament who have been abstained. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Feel free to vote, to allow what you have spoken of in the past few days to be realized. So that's what you asked for, so vote. You don't have to clap. Thank you. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 18 MPs for – 171 against. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. Since we have completed our decision on amendments, I am putting to the vote the amendment law and the amendments to the Higher Education Act, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – 175, against – 14 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Single Serbia Parliamentary Group. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 18 MPs for – 172. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has adopted the motion for a decision. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 172, no one, with abstentions, voted 19 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all MPs, has adopted the motion for a decision. Decision of the National Assembly on infringements of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Branislav Mihajlovic, at a session on 12 October 2016, at 12 hours and 8 minutes, pointed to infringements of Article 103(3) and Article 106(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide that those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 25, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members are not injured. National MP Saša Radulovic, at a session on 12 October 2016, at 12 hours and 12 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 30, against – two abstentions – there are no, no, 150 MPs voted. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member. National MP Saša Radulovic, at a session on 12 October 2016, at 12 hours and 19 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – 29, against 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member. National MP Saša Radulovic, at a session on 12 October 2016, at 12 hours and 45 minutes, pointed to a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 27, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member. National MP Sonja Pavlovic, at a session on 12 October 2016, at 21 hours and 11 minutes, pointed to injuries from members 106 and 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 26, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members are not injured. National MP Goran Ciric, at a session on 12 October 2016, at 22 hours and 20 minutes, pointed to injuries of members 107 and 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 154 MPs for – 28, against. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members are not injured. National MP Aleksandra Jerkov, at a session on 12 October 2016, at 22 hours and 50 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 100. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 29, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 13 October 2016 at 11.20 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for—19, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Miroslav Aleksic, at a session on 13 October 2016 at 15.55 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 27, against—no one who is abstention—no one has voted with 156 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Branka Stamenković, at a session on 13 October 2016 at 18:30 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 106(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 27, against—no one who is abstention—no one has voted with 156 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Balša Bozovic, at a session on 18 October 2016 at 15.54 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 28, against – no one, abstentioned – has voted 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Alexander Jerkov's National MP, at a session on 18 October 2016 at 1556 hours, pointed to a violation of Article 116. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 28, against – one, abstention – one, 153 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Saša Radulovic, at a session on 20 October 2016 at 12.48 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 30, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Ratko Jankov, at a session on 20 October 2016 at 13.12 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 30, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Marinika Tepic, at a session on 20 October 2016 at 16.04 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted 155 MPs for – 29 against. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016.
