ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1182	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that 108 MPs attend the session. Please specify the number of MPs present in the hall to insert your cards into the MPs' units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 140 MPs are present in the hall and that we have the conditions to continue our work. The session was prevented from being attended by Mladen Grujic. He was the only one to report his absence in writing to the Rules of Procedure. We're continuing the search on the first item of the agenda. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1183	Dear fellow Members of the Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, respected future ministers, I have read your plan and programme carefully, as I have carefully read the same one you proposed in 2014. Of course, if we were to live from the length of the exposé, we could all compete here who would be able to talk longer and write a better program, but that would be a vocabulary contest. There's hardly anyone who's likely not in favour of achieving what you've defined as a program goal. However, he is living off the results and living off the work. I got the impression by listening to you say we don't live in the same country. I am an MP from central Serbia, who is from Triestenik and there the Government of the Republic of Serbia has shut down 2,000 jobs. In that part of Serbia, there have been no serious investments in the past 15 years, domestic or foreign, from Kruševac to Cačka, where 500,000 people live. I didn't hear in the exposé that the planned construction of the Pojate-Preljina highway was planned, but that's why, on the other hand, we have an announcement to shut down the railroad from Kralje to Stalac. In that part of Serbia, as in other parts of Serbia, farmers work day and night, torture and torture yesterday and the day before, actually while we worked here, they worked their fields in the sun, they didn't find it hard to work and barely make ends meet, because there were no results in the area of agriculture, on the one hand. On the other hand, re-export is allowed and today Serbia is exporting goods from the EU to Russia, and there is a response to what you were talking about in the exposé on why the export of agricultural products from Serbia has been increased. Exports from other countries have been increased. Serbian goods are unfortunately not sold or sold at low prices. Also, in that part of Serbia, Mr. Prime Minister, young people plan to build their future in some other countries and leave Serbia. All those people, I believe, believed in your program in 2014 and what you said. I believe that many of them will believe today. However, the results show that you really are able and you are committed to making a serious programme, to create serious exposés, but you have not convinced me that you are able to implement what you write about, and to organize a system in a state that will function. It also tells me that in the previous four years in three governments, 30 ministers, four ministers of the economy, four ministers of education, four defence ministers, three finance ministers were changed in one reconstruction. Here, we've got a new six people now. For all these people, you said they were also professional people who would achieve great results in their fields, that the previous government was like "Bayern", which will work teamly, but unfortunately, these results were lagging behind. Not even all those foreign advisors, from Stroscan, Guzenbauer, Frank Frattini, Tony Blair and others, have helped us. I ask you - will you, as a selector, continue to play both in the attack and in the defense, that, with the presence of the media, you will receive citizens and be the president of both the local community and the president of the municipality and the public enterprise and the catastra and thus destroy the system of institutions in Serbia and, by the way, you do not have to be surprised, and it is perfectly logical when everyone expects an answer from you, not from the competent institutions, and even when it comes to, how did you say, destroying three barracks in Savamala? I'll just read the pieces from your previous exposé, actually quote you. You said that Serbia would become a country of equal odds for everyone, where it doesn't matter whether you have or don't have a party membership card or not, that young people will stay in Serbia, that you don't want Serbia living from today until tomorrow where the government is considered successful if there is some food, medicine and electricity and all that is successfully represented in its media. You said there would be laws that would achieve the right market environment and destroy corruption, reduce the number of people in the public sector and reform the public sector, that we had great luck with FAP and SIS, that you would reform the judicial system and implement system reforms in education, state administration, local self-government, that you would increase agricultural production by 30%. Also, education will be our first priority, education is the foundation from which we start to build our joint house, our new Serbia, better Serbia, a Serbia that knows, and that the state must become a support rather than an obstacle to businesses, that we will reform health and that you will implement measures to reduce poverty. You, Mr. Wolfie, be realistic and assess what's done and what's not done. I know this probably took a full term, but you made your own decision to cut it to half. As for the government's proposal, I must say that I have been working successfully with some ministers from the previous government. Here I must mention Mrs Mihajlović and Mr Antic, with whom I have implemented serious projects. I don't know most of the new ministers, but I know Mr. Nedimovic and Anna Brnabić, and I welcome their choice as new people in the new government of the Republic of Serbia. But what I can't support this program of yours is that I haven't seen the results in the last four years, and it's been enough time to feel it. On the other hand, I have not seen the prerequisites for achieving these goals of yours, which are undoubtedly good. I'd be dishonest if I said the program wasn't something we all wanted to realize. And I live in this country and my children live, and I want them to live here, and I want your program to be realized. But in order to do so, it is necessary to do some basic things that I have not noticed that in these two days you have thrown an accent, which is primarily a change in the political system in Serbia, the establishment of a system of values and institutions of the Republic of Serbia. It's a prerequisite for you to be able to realize all this stuff you've been talking about. That's why I, as an MP for the People's Movement of Serbia, will not be able to support your proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1184	Your group has wasted their time. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1185	I'll try to answer everything you said as soon as I can. All you've read is a good text and I agree with everything. I'd say at least 80% of what you read we did. I think that's what people see. You said I said we'd reduce the public sector. We have reduced the public sector dramatically. Unlike some who have increased our public sector especially at the Republican level from 9,000 to 28,000 by three years since 2000, we have managed to reduce it. We decreased by 14,500 in 2015, and this year we have more difficult and bigger tasks. I didn't understand that kind of remark. In particular, I didn't understand the kind of objection to citizens' admissions. It's every official's job to talk to people. I laughed at illiterate people who said things, how it was the job of certain protectors, and I don't know who. It's a job primarily for elected officials to talk to citizens and solve their problems. He doesn't just say the name of what he does. There is no function as recipient of citizens. It's my job, to talk to the people, to feel the pulse of people, to see what it is that hurts them, what problems we can solve. Of the 87 people, it's not very small for me, for 46 people we've solved the problem. That's more than 50%. And we'd better settle for 46 than that was zero. Whether someone likes it or doesn't like it, there's nothing I can do about it. I think it's something that's perfectly normal and it also shows that the Prime Minister feels like every other citizen and that there's no difference between himself and them. On the other hand, you read the part where I said we were going to support the economy. Well, we support the economy, and that's why we have this growth in the economy. Unlike the period of your power in which we had minus 3.6, today we have plus 2.6. If you're going to convince me that minus 3.6 is greater than plus 2.6, by the criteria that you admit, we admit, the whole world admits, I'd like you to explain to me what mathematics is. What is this arithmetic that this result can lead to that minus 3.6 is greater than plus 2.6? In what country, in which place, and how is that possible? You say there's no poverty reduction. He's got it, but it's a little bit. And the World Bank is trying to figure it out, but it's not enough. That is why this will be different in the coming years, because faster GDP growth will contribute faster to poverty reduction. We'd like it not to be 0.6 and 1.6, but to go over 2 and 2.5 percent on the annual level. If we can do that, it's a good result. But I answered not to, I understand politics, I understand what has to be said, and that's all right. Thank you for at least saying about the goals and the program that's good and okay, and that's something. So we usually have an amazing relationship with everything in our country. Here, approaching September 1st. Look, on all the TVs and all the newspapers, you'll have how terrible it is how expensive our books are. But even more than how scary it is how expensive our books are, even though we have so many free textbooks again, and I don't understand why we have them and I agree to that because most government members always insist on it, but that won't be the subject either, the topic will be the scope of those books, or so experts would say – how thick they are. It's like they're pigs, not books. It's like books are eaten and not read. Then the main problem is – and how are our children going to wear it in heavy ranches to school? What, so the spine doesn't break? What, so the menocus doesn't hurt? And everything is hard for us, and it's always hard for us. When the price of live scales is increased, a kilo of live vagina pigs are released only by consumers who complain, and then do not go to the manufacturer. When the price of the pig is lower, they go to the manufacturer who, they say, is no good, do not go to the consumer. And if they did, they'd say nothing's wrong again. We're never good at anything. No matter what happens, no matter what happens, nothing's wrong with us. Whatever I said, and you know it well, whatever I said, that I was saying a minute here, not what I was trying to do and fighting... Don't forget, you all went out 10 times yesterday, and some of you were out for 10 hours. I didn't leave this chair 12 hours ago and I answered every one. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: If I were in such a chair, I wouldn't leave. You're right, you were leaving because you weren't in that chair. I just wanted to tell you that I wanted to show respect for everyone, to listen to everything, but that's what we miss, you said, the values of the institution. We lack a change in the political system and these are the reasons. Well, we have within the political system everything we had until a few years ago when you ruled. At least some things are significantly improved, but nothing worse than that. I'm willing to talk about election laws and everything else, but we didn't ruin anything. On the contrary, we left everything at the highest democratic level, as you left us, as you said, except that we didn't abuse what we did for dirty videos, etc., as some others did. I just don't understand what's changed, and suddenly the best has become the worst. What are these values of institutions, because I remember these independent institutions, they were independent of everything? They kept quiet like they were watered all the time. They never should have said anything. There was one minister, now I don't know, not in yours, in this other party. I don't even know if he's in the other one anymore. He's against the candidate now some. You know these factions of yours. The one when he yells... (National MP Radoslav Milojic throws out of place. Well, it hasn't worked since early dawn. So he's no less... (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: Please do not insult, there is no point. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1186	Ambassador Milojic, he didn't mention you at all, didn't mention the name of the party. Don't identify yourself and legitimize yourself. So help me, so I don't have to go all the way around the room and have to react.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1187	When he speaks a word against those institutions, they hide and don't appear anywhere for three months, they go on a long vacation. Today these institutions, thank God, work, every day they tell us something, do their job every day. At least there's something different about it. As for value, you're right, I agree. We'll have that problem in 30 years. And precisely because of all of us and because we don't want to hear it, we won't listen to anyone else and we won't admit that someone else did something to us, and that's not how it works to you. And because in our country neither knowledge nor work, nor effort is appreciated, nothing is appreciated. It's only appreciated how I can get to my side as many allies as I can make combinations and that I can beat the others and there's nothing else. We'll be able to talk about it in four years or another to talk about it, and in eight years and twelve and sixteen, and it won't, unfortunately for me and for your sake, change much. As for "The Five-year-olds", it is not the Serbian government's fault, as you well know. The Serbian government has been helping and literally doing its best to do everything that the Petolets' leadership has done, asked and wanted, although we have had different ideas and plans on the social programme that we respected, I will not even speak. Ask those who succeeded in destroying and destroying the factory and not investing anything in it during the period in which they were supposed to do so, but were just waiting for its value to fall, that the trade capital would be at the lowest level, that it would literally be destroyed and that in the end no one, not with the Belarusians, nor with all the others we had negotiated with, there was nothing we could do. We bring Cromberg and Schubert to Kruševac. Soon I believe we will bring another factory to the King. I'm talking about the entire Moravia corridor, I'm talking about the whole way from Preljina to Pojat, so from Chačka, Kraljev, Banja, Trstenik, Kruševac to Cicivac. I can't say that in every place we can always bring such big investors, but I think that even in general conditions, we can fix that situation. Secondly, as for re-export and increased exports, it's absolutely not true what you said. Reexport is at such a low level that you can't count it in our exports up to 1%, up to 1%. They're so hard on our control. You give me examples, please give me examples, as I have asked you to give me examples of where the workers wore diapers, as I have asked examples to give me examples where I did not visit Serbs. In the end, I didn't get an answer. Because there's always a saying - I read in the paper, told me Grandma Smile. I ask you, show me those companies that re-export so many agricultural products and we'll act like a state immediately and you'll see that I'm right. That's the kind of thing I'd like you to point out, and I'd like it to show that I'm wrong, so we can react right now, but let me know. Here, I got assurances because my team followed up and sent me the information right away. I know exactly, and they know they can't send me false information. This is one of the things we insisted on. And why did we insist? Because we wanted to use such a relationship between the European Union and Russia for ourselves, to increase some of our production, that we could take more to Russia, not to help those who imposed sanctions. It's their relationship and what we care about them. Let them do whatever they want among themselves. We want to make money on our products. We want Serbs to sell their products, not sell Czech, Austrian or Hungarian products. And that's why we introduced such rigorous controls. Anyway, thank you for your correct approach, and I'd like to ask you, if you have any of this information to point out to us, to be specific, to be precise and be sure that we will respond immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1188	Thank you. The word is Milena Turk. Let's get Zharko ready.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1189	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is my honor to speak on this subject on the day we discuss the Government's work programme's proposal for a future term and the proposal for a candidate for ministers in the future government. We had the opportunity to hear really exhausted, detailed and extensive exposures and the government's work programme in which segment by segment is considered every topic that is essential to Serbia. Compared to this program, a series of results have been achieved and are talking about being on the right track. The fact also speaks of the fact that in these elections, we have received extremely great support from citizens precisely for reforms and for the pace in which Serbia is moving. For each of these segments, economy, agriculture, Kosovo and Metohija, European integration, infrastructure, people who are people of envious biography, great expertise, experience are proposed. I'm sure this team will be consistent in implementing a program like this. However, regardless of impressive biographies, all government ministers will be responsible to Serbian citizens, right in front of those citizens who supported such a policy. Serbia has no time to waste. Serbia has no time to try politics and hesitate. We have a duty to achieve maximum results, to show tenacity, consistency, to show efficiency. We have a duty to show that we are able to face all challenges and problems and achieve goals. The goal is unique to all of us. The goal is a successful, organised, legal state, economically developed. Our goal is for Serbia to enjoy the world's reputation, to be a stable and better place to live. The task and challenges are many, from passing laws to implementing them. We are obliged to continue to send a message that Serbia is a safe and stable country for investment and that our doors are open to investors and that we are ready to start our economy. On the other hand, attacks, criticisms, advices, and directives are coming all the time from those who have spent ten, twelve, or fifteen years backwards in power, who have had all the time in this world to implement everything they have imagined. The advice comes from those who have no idea, but that's why they have recommendations on how everything should be done. The policy of conflict and attack, as led by my previous speaker, continues, was then in place of the president of the municipality of Trstenik. During that time he offered himself as a minister through various media and embassies, in Triestenik the infrastructure was practically disintegrated, the roads were made only in pre-election campaigns, therefore, only pre-election asphalts, roads were scattered unmistakably, suddenly, without any lasting results. There is even one budget that in one village in the municipality of Trstenik was once so crowded that it should be seven meters high. Criticism comes from those whose projects have been gliding on drawers only because they have been proposed by unspeakable people, if the projects were at all because they were infrequently 30 years old or unsupervised and did not serve the inhabitants of the municipality of Trstenik. Criticism comes from those who have spilled 120 million dinars practically into the capital project of an aqua park in Tristenik that doesn't even have the basic, which is a useful license. I have here a report from the Planning and Construction Directorate, which says: “As the water enters the room through walls containing components of the electrical installation that are under voltage, so, switches and plugs, as well as the fact that the water is constantly present on the floor of the room, there is a potential risk of electro-voltage being threatened by persons in the room or pool. “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” So, the park that opened pompously in the past year, to collect political points, is not, therefore, not a valid permit and is not the current government that makes SNS shut out of the whim or spite, but because the safety of children, which is at stake for all of us in the first place. Those who post-pothetly lead the policy of conflict do not think about the results, which are still due to the inhabitants of the municipality of Trstenik who have put them in that position. I also have to answer the question "Friends." So, this government did not close two thousand jobs, but the government closed ten thousand jobs from 2000 to 2010, created 120m euros in debts, which about three times exceed the value of the entire factory and that is what is devastating. So, everyone who criticises the government has been actively involved in politics so far, and it is really hypocritical that they are now giving some advice. Let me get back to the subject. I am sure that this team of government, made up of experts, experts, people of experience and profession, will be able to implement this programme of government consistently and reach our goals step by step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1190	Thank you. Zarko Korać has a word. I'm sorry, sir, but I don't know what right you're standing up with and giving yourself your word. It's a bright step. He's not here. You're not the personification of the Trieste, so she didn't mention you personally or the party. I can't talk about cities, there's more of you, then I'll give everyone my word. Here's your Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1191	I'm advocating a violation of Article 104(1), where it says that if a member of the People's Parliament is spoken offensively, among other things, by stating his name, last name or function, I've performed my function. Let me finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1192	Ambassador, I can't, it's abuse of the Rules of Procedure. Sit down, don't. You've wasted your time, I can't take two minutes away from something you don't have, but I can't give you my word because...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1193	She blamed me. I was the president of the county when she said that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1194	You're no longer in that position. She didn't even mention your name. City, you have no right to represent only the city. No, I was thinking of someone else in the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1195	And you didn't give me the Prime Minister's line to give.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1196	Thank you very much. So Zarko Korać isn't in the O.R. and he doesn't want to talk. Branislav Blazic, is he there? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1197	Dear Prime Minister, the Honorable Chairman, candidates for ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have heard and read the exposés, I would rather say a white book of our entire reality. This is where our yesterday, our today, and our tomorrow are shown. Ours yesterday, because if they measure where we are today, they have to ask us where we were yesterday. And as yesterday, we were like a country on our knees on the edge of the sink, in a recession, where the public debt was out of control, where we had 26% of the unemployed, general depression, a very bad international position. And then comes the previous government and the savings begin, the work begins, the responsibility begins, our international position begins to change, and the country slowly rises, like Phoenix from the ashes. Today Serbia is on a safe and stable path. Today we are entering a new phase of reform, and this very exposé is something that is capital for Serbia. In it there is a real creative optimism, creative ideas, looking far and deep, one expressed will and one unwavering belief that work will win the trouble, that responsibility and truth will be ahead of lies and that justice will overcome injustice. The prime minister is following the situation thoroughly and soberly, not exaggerating dangers and problems, but not avoiding them. It shows them openly, clearly meets these problems and offers a normal solution. What I particularly appreciate is that there is a place dedicated to the environment in the exposé, and especially that it is promised that in the next period, much more attention will be paid to the environment. We need to do it in the environment and in its protection, and we can do it better and more. Unfortunately, the environment has served for a longer period of time than for the creation and strengthening of both our and our administrative and professional capacities. We need one authority and political and professional. We need an institution because everything rests on institutions, only institutions can provide a better life for all citizens. As we fight for investors to come in and try in every way to bring them in, believe me, our investors in the environment are standing at the door and knocking. The public-private partnership microsystem can be very easy to resolve the waste management system. This has already been shown in practice. They'll come, invest money, bring knowledge, bring culture, bring the system, and then one day, after 20 years, they'll go away, but it'll all stay. And we will be able to pay and pay back all of this, on the one hand, by selling that waste of ours, which is today an unprecedented balance for us, and on the other hand, to convince in some way local self-government that a healthy environment is more important than that money is going to separate for some singers or something that is completely irrelevant. After all, for thousands of cleanups, thousands of wild deposits of local self-government stand out, and often it is known where wild dumps will be and who will clean them over the year and before the budget in local self-government is adopted, it will be enough for us to completely resolve the system. It's the only way and the right way. If we wait for donations, we won't be waiting for them soon, because they give us one hand, take the other hand. And when all these support managers are worked out for both advice and other education, there's little left for the operating system. This is shown at the construction of a regional dump in Subotica, which has been built for 11 years. It's started to build as well as Bourge Caliph, and Bourge Califa is finished in 2010, and we're still digging and we're going to dig who knows how much more, we're just going to see it. These are just examples that we can and must do so much easier and better in the next period. When it comes to health care, we found health care in a clinical death. No one, no social activity has been destroyed since 2000, but health care has been destroyed. It was the black years of our health system. The work of the previous government has been done to stop, to refresh, to revive the health system. Great foundations were also created, and I expect in the new phase, the phase of reform and health, that healthcare be at the side of the medium-developed countries of Europe for four years. When it comes to personal solutions, I believe these are responsible and serious people very professional. I have no doubt that they will try to give their absolute maximum. Whether the maximum will be adequate for the functions and demands of the prime minister, it is already another question, and the question will give us an answer probably the prime minister's walk. We are therefore moving towards a new phase of all the general social, political, cultural, social, economic reforms. And that's what's most important is the unwavering faith of the prime minister, it's "condition son qua non" success. I believe we'll make it. Mr. President, you have our full support. We have to make it. Serbia must be better. Serbia must be more polite. I'm convinced that we're gonna make it because we don't actually have another choice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1198	Djordje Vukadinovic, and get Milovan Dracun ready. Who wants to go through the Rules of Procedure? The word is made by the People's MP Miroslav Mircic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1199	I'm reporting, and I'm advertising a violation of article 107. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, the first position that says that the speaker at the National Assembly session, is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. Please, Madam Chairman, to take care of yourself, Serbia is fine and cultural enough and no one has the right to call Serbia otherwise than it is, according to us Serbian radicals, but the essence of my announcement is the next previous speaker repeated his speech from 1998 when the Government of National Unity...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1200	Ambassador, you have no right to discuss.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1201	Please, just let me explain what the breach of the Rules of Procedure is.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1202	Because you're begging me, but don't discuss it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1203	Please, just let me explain what the breach of the Rules of Procedure is. With only a small difference, which in 1998 was praised by the Deputy Prime Minister, Dr Vojislav Seselj, and now praises Alexander Vukic. That really doesn't make sense. There's no resemblance to that, and you have to keep an eye on... .
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1204	Ambassador, without the abuse of an officer's injury, he'll be gone for two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1205	It's exactly the same speech...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1206	I was an MP at the time, and the talk wasn't about protecting the environment in the exposé of the prime minister at the time. So he couldn't mention MP Vojislav Seselj, he wasn't talking about protecting the environment for two seconds. So you're wrong, but if you think I hurt the Rules of Procedure, I'll put it to a vote, as most MPs say. Do you want us to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Vojislav Seselj, from town: Replica. There's no replica, there's no replica. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: How is there no?) There's no rules of procedure. He'll explain it to you, Natasha. So I'm just interpreting the Rules of Procedure, and I'm the only one who can interpret the Rules of Procedure. That's how the Democrats wrote it 10 years ago, and we respect it. They put this as a constitution. (Miroslav Mircic, from the post: You did not hurt the Rules of Procedure...) No, you can't say, just do we vote? He can't do it in the Rules of Procedure. I'm asking the MP's group to examine the Rules of Procedure. So, only I can hurt the Rules of Procedure, Blazic can't. Thank you very much. So we're not voting. Djordje Vukadinović, Milovan Dracun... (Vojislav Seselj, from the city: Injury of Rules of Procedure 27.) I want peace and quiet so I can run a session. (Vojislav Seselj, from the city: Rules of Procedure 27.) Martinovic answered the same thing before you did. I'll give you my word, don't worry about anything. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1207	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am advocating the Rules of Procedure of Injury of Members 107, which speaks of the dignity of the National Assembly. Mr. Sasa Radulovic, who is not currently tweeting in the hall, wrote that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia reminds of the farm and instead of sitting in the National Assembly and participating in its work, insults the National Assembly in the most harsh way possible. Of course, I'm not asking you to vote on it, you're not responsible for it, Madam President, but I just want the citizens of Serbia and the MPs to know what the man who was working at the same time was doing if I'm not cheating on the bankruptcy director of 13 companies who set up his wife's jobs and who's giving us lessons today on how to run the Serbian economy. According to him, Serbia's economy should be completely sent into bankruptcy and then sold a kilo per kilo, but let this experiment take place in another country where it owes a tax in Serbia, but in any case, please tell Mr. Sasa Radulovic not to call the National Assembly an animal farm anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1208	Thank you. Let me tell you something. This is really scandalous. Don't think he's an MP, only to be an MP if that person sits inside the room and says something about a pay phone. To be an MP means to represent Serbian citizens in every place in Serbia and out of Serbia. So social networks aren't so virtual that we think you can be Dr. Jekyll in the morning and Minister Hyde in the afternoon or vice versa. So that's not allowed. This is indeed a serious insult to the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. We have a serious mandate here, and I want to thank him and all the MPs who talk seriously about politics for three days, because he's here on the third day. We have never had a chance in the history of parliamentaryism since the 1990s, so on and on that one mandater sits with us for three days, and each one responds to each of his remarks. I am grateful to him for that and to all MPs, no matter what political option they belong to, who have decided to work and sit here for three days. But insults, I really don't allow it, and I don't know how to change the provision that MPs can also hurt the Rules of Procedure, not the chairman who really has nothing to do with social networks and such ugly comments allowed by individuals. (Vojislav Seselj, from the city: According to the Rules of Procedure. Let me pick one of the Twitter MPs. And you're before them. Here you go, Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1209	I was a Twitter messenger until I became a National MP. I'm reporting by article 27. Mrs. Gojkovic, you represent the entire National Assembly. You can't treat cheerleaders either way, but you can objectively see things. You have now said here that the Government of Mirko Marjanovic did not take care of environmentalism, and the Government of Mirko Marjanovic, where we Serbian radicals were as the strongest coalition partner, paid the most attention to the environment. Branislav Blazic was the Minister of Ecology in the government, and now it was easier for him to take that speech he was making in 1998, a little bit of a rewrite, than to prepare a new speech, it was useful on condition that it was not noticed, but we didn't notice. If you're not, you can check, you may not remember these things well, you were then a minister without a chair, and like Slavica like this, without a chair, so you don't remember. I, who was Deputy Prime Minister and responsible for this portfolio in the National Assembly, remembers very well, remembers Mr. Mircic and this is a violation of the reputation of the National Assembly. Can't have one speech for 20 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1210	Thank you. You'll give me that speech from the '90s to compare, and then I'll be able to rule. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: You have this in the archive. I don't, I really don't, and this is the truth that I didn't have a chair, I admit it. The violation of the Rules of Procedure Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1211	The chairman, I remind you, under article 109, you are required to remind an MP who makes an assessment at the expense of other MPs who do not speak in the agenda, and you do not have and abuse your position as president of the National Assembly, because you are not the president of Twitter. You need to take care of the order in the National Assembly, that's your job. You allow insults, demeaning MPs, you do the same thing, and you do it yourself. You're jeopardizing the dignity of the National Assembly. This is not worthy of the National Assembly. This conversation is not worthy of the National Assembly, you should take care of it. Obviously, you don't run, you let the Rules of Procedure speak, past the agenda, allow insult, disrespect. Please take the work of the National Assembly seriously. I demand that you vote on this violation of your Rules of Procedure. This is violence against the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1212	Thank you, Ambassador. I am obliged to answer you, believe it or not, although you don't like someone telling you something, but according to the Rules of Procedure, I have to explain to you that I have done nothing to harm this House's dignity, you have been doing it since the first day you came here, but this is a very specific remark. Perhaps you can take yours, what you said on Twitter, as far as I understand it, is that, if here they all show, I am not against you nor against anyone, I have other things to do, that you compared the Parliament, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia with the "Farm", that's scandalous, that's really scandalous, and thank you for telling me that I have the right to say and warn, but I won't, and I would get a warning from you. A reminder would get you, one, the other, the third, and then you have to leave Parliament's work, that means your calling on this member. And because you don't have a shred of tolerance to endure, that some other MP will say something about your conduct and yours, so I can't say to the political views because we haven't heard them yet, but to your seeing what your fellow MPs are and what this building means to you, and what it means to you, to the citizens of Serbia who have circled these people, and even to you by circumstances, you have shown it in this one single sentence of yours. So, you'll see at the vote what MPs think of your behavior and what they think of my holding the session. Believe it or not, to tell you one lesson about democracy, voting is everything. Not violent behaviour, not tweeting, but voting, and they will use their vote to translate the will of Serbian citizens here into parliament when we put this request to the vote that I have violated the Rules of Procedure. It was a small lesson in democracy and parliamentaryism. I am your senior colleague, I have been here for 26 years, and I am very much in the mood to help you learn what parliament is and what democracy is in Serbia in all other countries, and you do not have the right to replicate and you do not have the right to harm the Rules of Procedure in the position of the President of Parliament. So, you can all pick up now, the cameras are directed at you, take a picture, put it on Twitter, and we'll keep working. The next speaker is Djordje Vukadinovic. Over. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1213	Thank you. Believe it or not, I don't think that in this little debate both Mr. Seselj and Mr. Radulovic are right, and instead of scandalising over tweets, I'm also not following it, some MPs, let's try to make the Assembly more polite and less like or less associate with that already mentioned institution, not to say the institution. I have only three minutes and really illusions and I don't have the ambition to be so smart that I can respond to what the prime minister here said for 10, 12, 13 hours in two days. But in that sense, I would also remind him and ask him to listen carefully for at least three minutes and to understand the most well-intentioned bit of what he will be able to say during that period. Does anyone here in the O.R. know anyone who talked about European parliamentary practice whose exposé lasted six hours? I'm not sure that's why we're boasting about it. It's old, of course, it seems like a small thing, but here many speakers from the congregation's majority highlighted it as a special virtue. Anything can be said relatively briefly. It is no coincidence that five prime ministers, five prime ministers after 2000, had their exposé ranged from 20 minutes to an hour. Everything over two hours is actually rude and it can't hold attention. I know that, you know that. It is a pity that none of Mr. Vukic's friends and advisers, or the prime minister, apologized for his personal address, told him, and kindly distracted him. Do you also know in European parliamentary practice that someone is going twice to the extraordinary parliamentary elections although there is no reason, no need, because there is an absolute majority in parliament and there is no protest and unrest? Has anyone in European parliamentary practice changed four defence ministers, businesses, finance within four years? The problem is, and I'm going to end up with that, because I have no illusion that we can discuss it this briefly, and hopefully I'll get at least a line if there's a chance. Politics cannot be discussed here, because the policy of the current government, the previous and the present, is completely inconspicuous. The mandate is in its own exposé and the largest European and the largest patriot and greater European than Mr Jovanovic and more patriots than we are sitting here on the left or right. The trouble is, dear gentlemen, that with the help of the media and the absolute control of electronic media and tabloids you can produce this parallel reality, but it doesn't work well in practice. The point is, and that's what I'm going to end up with, thanks to the chairman for trying to secure the regulatory atmosphere. The way Serbia was led in previous years, I have no illusion that it was good before, it was not good, it cannot be finished, and how the assembly majority, unfortunately and the mandater, treats these four, five MPs who tried to say something is not good, is not democracy, is associated with other times and other areas. You're not hurt, child attacked, Mr. Wolfie. You attacked Mr. Pititić and his wife. I'm not Mr. Pitiæ's lawyer, that's reality. You are not attacked by Radulovic, you are campaigning against Mr Radulovic. They are not members of my parliamentary group, but it is a sad fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1214	The Mandatar has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1215	I've been trying to understand, and there aren't three of you here, four of you. After the election, you said that you were almost most and that it was possible to form a government. There's a lot more of you here. And unlike you and everyone else, I'm here to answer to each and every one of you. I'm sorry I'm not afraid of you, but I'm answering. You spoke, I'll skip. I wanted to quote something from Ziki's dynasty that your speech reminded me of. Except for hate and scarcity in those few minutes, nothing else could be heard. I'll remind you, it's a matter of style how much you're going to talk. One Angela Merkel spoke for two and a half hours. They applauded her for 15 minutes, so you didn't say it reminded her of other times, which you said during the time someone applauded for 15 seconds. Because you're talking about these other times because you don't know what else to do, because you'd like to return Serbia at a time when you took money from the Serbian State lottery. Serbia's state lottery was the only institution in the world that brought minus our country, bringing minus to the Republic of Serbia, because it was giving money to Djordju Vukadinovic. That's why it bothers you, and that's why you're going to talk about dictatorship and everyone else is going to talk about dictatorship. Look how they can't stand being answered. They react hysterically, push buttons, yell, wave, jump and everything else. How could they not learn to answer them? Because they learned to say what they wanted. Let's see who the dictator is, whether the dictator is the one who never showed up in the National Assembly and never responded to the MPs, as did representatives of his party, or I, who came to hear them all, to hear them all and to answer them all patiently and patiently, regardless of the fact that they participated directly in the destruction and false, fictitious spending of our pairs for nothing, for services not done, just so that they would be well funded and to perform their political role, for nothing more. You're saying here that someone wants to be both a European and a patriot. I am for Serbia's entry into the EU, I am no Eurofanatic. I am a patriot, I love our country, and I respect all its citizens. And I'm a Serb. That I was never a Serb, unlike some who went to other lists, minority lists, to become MPs. To remind the citizens of Serbia, to get your hands on the chairs in this House, you were Vlah. Well, it didn't pass. There was one in front of you. You missed it a little bit. They asked 0.4% of the vote instead of 5% of the vote so he could sit here and give us lectures and sermons. Every day I watch what it is you say. I have no problem with you complimenting one, the other, the third, the fifth. I don't see any difference here and there's no difference, because your only ideology, and yours and others next to you and nearby, is just the State lottery of Serbia. It's your only ideology, how do we get our hands on Serbia's State Lotions even if they accuse Serbia of looking like the worst place on the globe of the Earth, even if all the worst talk about their country, even if all the worst talk about their country. You are not interested in what, how and how much you are able to do against your country just to get your hands on Serbia's state lottery again. Now, there's nothing left for you from the Serbia State lottery. Now that money goes to Serbia's budget and goes to the citizens of Serbia. Don't threaten how it ends, because I won't leave this country. Neither of you, any of you here, all of you together, I'm not afraid at all. When you talk about who he mentioned to, I mentioned the directorial posts, not to mention children who had nothing to do with anything, who were guilty of ever going to school and being very good students. But that's what he says about you, because the pathological hatred you have for the State lottery of Serbia. Serbian citizens should know, I, Aleksandar Vukic, am guilty of Serbia's state lottery no longer paying the racket to Djordju Vukadinovic and will no longer pay him the racket and I will be guilty of it in the future. Try to charge that racket elsewhere, but you won't be able to charge any more from the state authorities and state-owned enterprises. You say whatever you want, but just count on one thing... Something you worry about, something you worry about, something time doesn't suit you, you're impatient. I've got as much time as you want, I'm in no hurry and I can answer and I can speak, I'm the only promoter, in accordance with what you've brought in this assembly as much as I want. You brought, all those whom you praise, and not me, according to your rules from that Bavaria, or I don't know which Germany, as you brought them, we respect them less zealously today. (Vojislav Seselj, from the city: we must change. How can we change the most democratic postulates they have set before us for the next 50 years? One of those postulates will change, and we'll change it forever. No more kidnappings from the Serbian State lottery, and not even for Gjorge Vukadinovic, whatever he does, and no matter how many times he changes religion and nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1216	The word has Gjorge Vukadinovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1217	Thank you. If you were so undemocratic, and we all know that you are not, and those who applaud you know that you are not, but if you were such a jack, if you were such a gentleman, as you represented yourself here in the Assembly, then you would vote and support and advise your majority to allow the opposition at least 10 hours, twice as much time to argue, but you didn't. As for the change of faith for dinner, Mr. Wolfie, you're the only one here, along with some of your comrades, who've changed your faith for dinner, and everybody here knows that, too. Manipulation and five times mentioned insinuation with one legitimate and legitimate job, if you have any objections, you reach out, you have power, institutions, so take it. Here in the Assembly to deceive the public, my views have nothing to do with anything, but yours do. You sold your faith for dinner. You met with Stanko Subotic Canet at the Paris hotel "Ric" and other places. It's you, Mr. Wolfie. Now you're denying me the right to answer you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1218	I'm not cutting short, I'm ringing for everyone to listen very carefully.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1219	You signed the Brussels Agreement, and that's why you're here now. You did what they didn't want or dared to do these yellow ones. It's their soul that goes to this Rules of Procedure. That's where we only agree and he's restrictive, and you're even more restrictively applying him. As for the change, you've become a Protestant, I don't know whether you're a Serb or not, politically, ideologically, you're not. I've got 15 seconds left, so try to hold on to it. You'd like to look like Angela Merkel. You'd love to look like Putin, but unfortunately, most of all, you associate me with Caligula and Nero.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1220	Thank you, sir. You can see I didn't interrupt you, no matter what two minutes you've done, you've made incredible insults. I'm obliged to answer you about the Rules of Procedure. Don't, day three, those ten hours, I guess we know how long one day lasts. I guess 24 hours. The third day you're saying the opposition only has about five hours. You deny yourself. The third day we're here, 16 times 20 plus five. So don't deceive the public and keep talking about some endangered law. You've been given the right by the citizens of Serbia. I'm very sorry that for you and your option, they didn't vote massively, so you have 50 hours here, but what we're going to do is we're going to recognize very well, they're never wrong, no matter what you say to the citizens of Serbia, and they voted to do most of these parties sitting here. It's a choice of Serbian citizens. Don't be angry with the citizens of Serbia and read them a lesson every day why they gave you just seven minutes to speak at a session. Don't complain to us, because I didn't make the Rules of Procedure, and I didn't even go out to vote for you. So don't do that. It's a humiliation to parliament if we say every day that you're in danger of something. Don't do that. You can't answer me, because you heard it through the Vojislav Seselj case, and this is where you do the precedent. The word has a mandater.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1221	I want to talk. So, in just two minutes, you could hear the outpouring of anger, hatred and vanity. We're done with Caligula, Nero. And Caligula and Nero remembered history, and no Vlach knows you in the Unrealnica and the Manastirica and will ever remember you. I wouldn't even be Caligula... Don't throw it at me, don't swear and don't be rude. Competence is taught in a long time ago. I listened carefully and endured all the insults, suffered in the simplest way. That speaks of your dictatorial nature. What would you have done if you could have mastered the monastery and the Unreal, and there also to the House, and what power it would have been, but the people would not have wanted it. The hairs recognized you weren't theirs, and then the Serbs recognized you, but what you'd do. Let's get back to what's the point. I wouldn't be Caligula or Nero, I'd be De Gaulle, and I'd be anything else if there was a state lottery of Serbia, but there's no State lottery of Serbia. That's your problem, Mr. Vukadinovic. I didn't tell a lie for a second. You took money from the state lottery of Serbia, from the state institution for the false services you gave them, because you had no idea what you were getting money for, or what you were doing, and everyone in this country and how well they knew. How long has it been, when you told me – The Wolf fell to 40%, then went below 40%, then disappeared? That was a year and a half ago. I was wondering if we'd go over the censorship by listening to those research. And then I realized that you were doing research for the monastery and the Unreal, but that's where we got 50%. You didn't say that exactly either. As for faith for dinner, I respect Protestants very much, I respect Webber very much. I think their religion is one of the reasons why northern peoples in Europe are more successful than most Mediterranean people, but it has nothing to do with what I belong to and who I am. I happen to be, I don't think it's an advantage, I don't think it's a lack, but I'm proud of it, a Serb Orthodox religion. Believe me, as such, little Vlahe, little Serbs, some third, fourth, I will win and on the Serbian State lottery forget it. I promise you that, and I guarantee it. Today I'm going to read in the afternoon a complete contract of yours, so the people can see how you robbed the state's money and how you took the money from the people of this poor woman you're defending here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1222	The word has Vladimir Djukanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1223	Thank you, Your Honor. I wouldn't answer, but there's something I can't get past. Of course, it's about article 107. - a violation of dignity. Here, the speaker said that he used a legal and legitimate method to enter the congregation, so that, among other things, he represented himself, changed his faith for dinner. Me and all of us here have earned our mandate fair and square. I do not allow anyone to say in such a way that you can enter the congregation by changing the nation. I'm a Serb, Orthodox, he can be a Vlach. But I'm just asking him something, because certainly every national minority here represents and wants to present some of their problems if he has or possibly has some rights, which the Vlach village has visited in the campaign, to tell us what the problems of Vlach, our fellow citizens? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1224	Thank you. I don't want this session turned and dedicated to George Vukadinovic. We'll do it another time. I ask MP Djukanovic to withdraw the proposal not to talk about Djordz Vukadinovic, to really talk about the exposé of the prime minister and the government. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Milovan Dracun. Have Srdjan Nogo prepare. (Vojislav Seselj, from the city: Rules of Procedure. ) Can't hurt the Rules of Procedure, nothing happened in the meantime, only if you're going to talk about George Vukadinovic. (Vojislav Seselj, from the city: It happened. What? Only if you're going to talk about George Vukadinovic, he's the only one who spoke. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Yes, about that. About George Vukadinovic? Did he hurt Parliament's dignity? (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: May I say? Article 27.) You have to answer the phone, you have not pressed the button.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1225	I wanted to warn you something, Mrs. Gojkovic. This Rules of Procedure are based on the Constitution and was directly based on the Constitution until the Law on the National Assembly was passed, but it doesn't change anything. There was a word here about the Vlassas, and there could have been an unfavourable impression based on someone falsely pleading for Vlach, so now it's as if we have something against Vlach. I want to point out that all of us are little Vlassi, all of us Serbs. When the Serbs came to the Balkans in the 7th century, they found a Romanian population called Vlasima, which had been destroyed before, and we had assimilated them.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1226	Which member of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1227	Article 27(2)
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1228	Good, so I can follow.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1229	Okay, there's no need to interrupt me, I'll be done soon. So we're all Vlachs. How much som Vlasi as the Serbian language today differs from Russian in phonetics. Thanks to the Vlach as a Romance language, we acquired phonetics that are more similar today to Italian than Russian. That's proof that we're all a bit of a Vlach. The process of absorbing Vlah is not completely completed in the region of Timoko, there remains another number of the original Vlachs that are well-skilled, have Serbian names etc. I ask you to respect the Vlachs because they are our ancestors. And now, as Mr Vukadinovic pleaded as Vlah, it is not out of respect for Vlassim, but out of kindness.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1230	Time's up. I gave you 12 seconds longer because I took it from you. Thank you very much, interestingly. One session to address issues of abuse of the electoral law, but I run a session. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Milovan Dracun. (Jorge Vukadinović, from the post: Rules of Procedure. I'll take two minutes, and you only have three minutes. So don't do it. Milavan Dracun.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1231	President-in-Office, Prime Minister, Prime Minister candidates, fellow MPs, I fully support the extensive exposé presented by the prime minister. Mr. Vukic, I expect this to become a standard and common practice for all of the next prime ministers for a crucial reason. With this extensive route that Serbia should take over the next four years, you have shown great respect for the citizens of Serbia, because everything the future government will do is directly related to the quality of life of all citizens. They need to be fully aware of what you plan to do. On the other hand, you've shown a lot of respect to Parliament and MPs, because you've met us...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1232	Please, MP, I have to stop to let everyone know what's going on. Now MP Djordje Vukadinovic comes out and sends kisses to the prime minister. Since this is a public session, and since it's all in the record, I'm obliged to pass it on. He's got a card left, take out the card. I have to take care of the abuses. I don't want Bodrum or Thessaloniki or anything like that in my term. Take out Gjorge Vukadinović's card, no matter how many kisses he has to take out the card. Have the services respond immediately, take out the MP's card. You see, DJ's out of the O.R. again, they're not in the tide. Get everyone out. I apologize, Ambassador Dracun. It was important that he enter the record. We have to record everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1233	So, Mr. Vukic, on the one hand, we have shown great respect for the citizens, on the other hand to Parliament and MPs. I will support this composition of the government that you have proposed, but you do not have my blanco support. This means that I have defined myself to support this composition of the government based on the power of the arguments that you have expressed in the exposé and on your authority that you have built in the past period by showing that you are maximumly committed to Serbia, to the well-being of citizens and to the full interests of the protection and interests of the Serbian people. This also means that I will closely monitor the government's work in the coming period, if necessary, criticise it, but you will have maximum strong and dedicated support in me for anything that leads to a better Serbia. I want to focus on a few elements, or dots that you put out in the exposé. Foreign policy, you said in the exposé – a new Serbia has gone into the world and the world has accepted and that is very good. For the first time in a long time, we are in an international position and most importantly those whose interests are directly opposed to ours are beginning to respect our interests. For the next period, it is very important what kind of world will be around us so that we can find our place. On the one hand, a multipolar international order is being created that leads to new economic forces, more and more military forces such as Russia, Brazil, India and China. On the other hand, we have one strong geopolitical confrontation that threatens to transform not only Serbia but the whole region where we are held hostage by this geopolitical confrontation. How difficult it is to position ourselves on the international agenda and how much effort you and your government will have to invest in the next period to avoid all the traps of this one conflicted, turbulent world shows the best statement by US Secretary of State Kerri in November 2014 when he said that Macedonia, Serbia, Montenegro, Moldova and Georgia are on the line of confrontation between Russia and America on the issue of Ukraine. Serbia's interest is certainly not to be on the line of fire. It is our interest to be on the line of prosperity, co-operation, partnership and overall progress. That's exactly the trap to meet you on the line of fire you'll have to avoid in the next period. Which way to go further on the international agenda? The High Representative for Foreign Policy and Security, Federika Mogerini, said two days ago, quote – The European Union must also connect with new actors in the world, as no member alone can adequately respond to instability and new security threats. These new actors are certainly countries whose economic power is growing. These are new groups like Brix, the Shanghai Co-operation Organisation's military plan for collective security arrangements. I think this is exactly the path Serbia is going over the past period and which has brought this benefit, which is an extraordinary result of being respected and that it can, among other things, prevent the membership of the self-proclaimed state of Kosovo in UNESCO. You said you needed to improve co-operation with groups like Brix, that I couldn't agree more. I think it is a great chance for Serbia's economic development, to reduce our external trade deficit, because all economists predict that Brix will very quickly become a leading group and even threaten the GDP of the Group of the seven most developed Western countries. As far as national security is concerned, you said in the exposé that our defense system is at 34 of the best rankings in the world. This is certainly the result of a series of measures taken by the foreign policy plan of this strong international positioning to show that we have defined that and the most difficult problems such as the cosmetic problem solves in a peaceful way, by agreement and compromise, to what has been done to modernise Serbia's Army, with the basis of our dedicated industry. I think modernisation, Mr. Vukic, is the key to reforming any organisation, especially the Serbian Army. We must continue with the intensive organisation of the military and adapt to the new security challenges we are now facing to a lesser extent, which we will face in the coming period in particular, such as non-state threats such as radical Islamic extremism and terrorism, and in this sense I support and think that the right decision is at the right time, you said in Panchev, if I am not mistaken recently, that there will be an increase in the number of members of Serbia's special units. I think that's a very good move. I also think that the Special Anti-Terrorist Unit in the framework of the MUP created by joining the CJ and PTJ should be promoted and that we should make one possible new concept of training for people to oppose and prevent predominantly radical Islamic extremism and terrorism. As for Kosovo, I, from the beginning and as a citizen, fully supported the process of normalising relations between Belgrade and Pristina, between Serbs and Albanians as president of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija. We must begin to close this huge crack between Serbs and Albanians, which disturbs normal life and the future and the Serbian people, but also the Albanians themselves, destabilises the region. And this is the initial step in all of it. We did not, by reaching the Brussels Agreement, give, or sell Kosovo and Metohija, but began slowly step by step to bring the state of Serbia back to Kosovo and Metohija, which some by force of arms and a unilateral declaration of kidnapping. I think in the next period, Mr. Vukic, attention must be given to forming a community of Serb municipalities. It must no longer be referred to by Pristina, it is the basis of the first Brussels Agreement, the Community of Serb municipalities. If the Albanians finally don't give up blocking the realisation, then maybe we should declare it based on the first Brussels Agreement and see what it does, it has to work. Returning over two hundred thousand expelled Serbs, but also expelled Roma and Gorans, then property and war crimes, continue the normalisation process is certainly a priority. I just want to remind you that the KIM Committee formed a Working Group in October 2015 dealing with the collection of facts that are very important to prove the crimes of the terrorist KLA. What I said to you, Mr. Vucic, was that at a meeting of this working group attended by representatives of all our services, SORZ, the Missing Persons Commission, the Office of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Prosecutor's Office of War Crimes, we found that the material that BIA handed over to the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office in due time, that it was not in the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, someone hid it, and that material was actually a complete dossier of the crimes committed by the terrorist KLA on behalf of the Serb people, our security forces, but also to the Albanians themselves. And on the other hand, for the first time through this Working Group, we have made the coordination of all competent state authorities that have any knowledge of the crimes committed. I expect yours, as so far, full support for the Working Group, which will deal with the collection of facts with the intention of presenting everything we can to the Special Investigation Team who will work, who will press charges in the Special Court that should be tried by members of the terrorist KLA and then publish some kind of "white book" and deliver it to all the competent, international institutions, in order to prove that the terrorist KLA had a genocide plan, not that Hashim Thaci threatens us with some kind of genocide suit against Serbia. I repeat, the strategic goal of the terrorist KLA, supported by the Republic of Albania, was to kill as many Serbs as possible and banish all others. We must stand up to it and let the truth finally come out. As for Mr. Vukic, some other elements -- justice, justice, never enough justice in Serbia, but I just have to, here's the future justice minister, I just want to tell you one thing. Justice cannot be shared by those who are so clearly politically declared. Those who only set on the basis of the criteria of belonging to the Democratic Party in the earlier period. I will quote to you a document published by the daily "Politics" on 8 March 2014, which "Politics" was delivered by the judge society, where it is clear that the established lists of judges in the Municipality of Vlasotince are based on recommendations from the local Committee of the Democratic Party. 6 So the local DS board decides who should be the judge or prosecutor. From the document I quote, I do not mention the names – "when the judges were breaking between DS and DSS, deserves a chance, a sympathiser, a member of the DS, interested in the Court of Appeal in Nis, uncontested, co-operated without discussion, undeniable, sympathiser, sympathiser, undeniable, single mana - husband of former JUL, of course unsuitable, President of the Court until 2000, hardened enemy DS, undeniably negative". In the country of Serbia with such judges and with such parties affecting the judiciary, they were full of justice, independence of the judiciary, there will never be justice. Given the time I've already used, not to spread the subject, you said, if I'm not mistaken, at the end of the exposé that we all need to change. I accept that we are changing, changing Serbia for the better. Serbia is our only country. It has been living too long and too hard in Serbia. Finally, the time has come for us to change Serbia in the next four years, Mr. Vukic, and that is your biggest responsibility, so that in Serbia, the vast majority of citizens begin to live well. That's your top priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1234	The word has Srdjan Nogo. Let Veroljub Arsic prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1235	Dear People's MPs, Mr. Prime Minister, future ministers, citizens of Serbia, I want to briefly look back in these few minutes, unfortunately, on one or two topics from this exposé. I hope I get some answers about my own exposure and what was said and there won't be any answers on the side. I hope that I will have the right to a replica, that you will not shorten my potential if there is any controversy, as you denied yesterday to Mr. Bosko Obradovic or just before George Vukadinovic. What do you say from this exposé? It was really hard to choose a topic, but I would like to focus on something that Mr. Vukic and the delegation of the Serbian Dvori Movement discussed about a month ago. You'll agree that we had a very good conversation, that we exchanged and faced interesting opinions, and that's when we gave you a few documents. And if you remember, one document concerned the business of the banking system in Serbia. You talked a little bit about it in the exposé. You've brought up the problems that we have, that they don't just want to place money, they prefer to invest in government bonds, and in that document you saw that in 2015, we passed a law amending the Bank Act and that some controversial provisions were introduced. In those provisions, the NBS shall establish full immunity from liability, unless proven not to have acted in good faith. Even as many NBS bear the costs of legal representation of these persons in any procedure to be initiated in connection with the performance of their duties. Furthermore, the next member, Article 9d of the Bank Act, provides for the confidentiality of information. You can't just go out with some data, e.g. Whether a bank was punished in Serbia, and you saw that you received an example from us from one European Commission, how the European Commission punishes banks with a billion and a half, and you also ended up with a document that for over nine billion are punished banks in the UK and in the United States, only one case of interest-setting. How does that work in Serbia? I've got the data. The National Bank of Serbia imposed 62 fines to banks in the period from 2007 to 2014, 19 fines to members of the executive boards and eight fines to members of the boards of directors of banks totaling less than 490 million dinars. Otherwise, this does not mean that this amount is charged by banks because they were later released from that amount in some appeal proceedings. Not every time has been punished by the control of the National Bank. So, for example, "Pireus Bank" in 2008 was fined with five million dinars on the orders of a special prosecutor for malfeasance in the business of the company Ecoproduced -- a bankruptcy mafia. You see, one third of these sentences were imposed in 2007, but let's concentrate on the last three years. I have to say that there was a rise in 2012 – six million 700 000 – three banks were punished, in order to make it jump by 70 million and six banks in 2014. In that same period since 2015, in the first nine months, you have 12,000 complaints from citizens about the business of banks. It's an increase compared to 2013, the whole time you're in power of 40%. I'd give you when I've finished this presentation, one document will be given to the future justice minister, as I attach myself to what Mr. Drecun has said and I absolutely agree with what he read about re-election of judges, that he's absolutely right. You see, in this document you will be able to learn that in 2014 and 2015, an example of only one bank, which is not the only bank, so the Piraeus Bank concluded a contract in 2014 and 2015 with the presidents of the Second and Third Basic Court in Belgrade, as well as with the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. You will see from the accompanying documents that there are more courts in Serbia, and employees in those courts get privileged credit conditions while they are employed in courts. So you have, say, judges who have a bank loan, a loan cash or a housing loan of 0.75% to 2% on an annual basis. The bank can unilaterally change the terms of credit. Now you tell me how, for example. Here's Pireus Bank has its headquarters in New Belgrade, the third basic court is in charge, over 4,000 loans in Swiss francs is for example. issued by Piraeus Bank, a large number of court proceedings, each time Piraeus Bank was sued by the Third Court of Justice, so that it could be an impartial judiciary if the judge e.g. He's got a bank loan on favourable terms, and the bank can change his interest rate unilaterally? Can we see what the judges are getting these cases? There's one disk here and some other contracts about how banks take away property and companies. Drecun just mentioned re-election of judges. You're absolutely right about everything you said about re-election of judges, one big scandal. If you remember, 2/3 of the judges who were not re-elected have joined the SNS. Is that true? There are data, over 600 judges who were not re-elected by order of Snezana Malovic and Miki Rakic, took a SNS membership card. I urge you, Mr. Vukic, to come out publicly and say that these people have ceased their membership in the SNS, because we have no information that they have been members of the SNS. Do these judges today possibly blackmail some people, because the SNS membership card, or any other party, is the reason for their resolution from the judge's office? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1236	Thank you. Can I get you your papers? Come, approach the table. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1237	I'm going to add something to one question during the day, and at this point I don't have an answer, and the other I have an answer for. Yeah, we had a good conversation. No problem, there'll be bank complaints more and more, especially because of the Swiss franc loan. There will be more and more problems because of the fact that this is a trend European that it happens almost in all countries, especially in the Mediterranean. You should know that our banking system is stable and much more stable and firmer than many European countries. That's why I said yesterday that it was very important to safeguard that kind of legal stability in order to preserve full economic stability. So everything that we touch, and then I told you -- there are things that I can blame, but which, if we're not sure what the consequences are going to produce, we better not touch because we can cause disaster. So am I happy with how many individual banks invest in the economy, invest in the economy? No, but that's why we have to cut the so-called first. impiles, non-performing loans, i.e. non-performing loans. We have managed to reduce this by 1% or 2% in the previous two years, which is very difficult, because the bank's own management is opposed to that, especially the branch from abroad, because they want to hold the same balance so that they can charge good bonuses. They don't care that it's not real money, because if we went back to getting those unpaid loans, we'd get between 28% and 35%, and maybe 25 to 35 percent, not more than that, but we'd get money they wouldn't get and they wouldn't get. But that doesn't interest them, they keep the same balances, they don't hold this as controversial or uncharging claims, they take bonuses, and they don't think of investing in the economy. They make a lot more money, clean money by investing in government bonds. You can't forbid anyone from acting legally, but it's true that this problem exists. There are some small banks that invest in the economy, that give for the start of the apps, that take care of their clients, that commit themselves, I don't want to advertise them, so I don't want to say names, but there are a lot of these big banks that only deal with repo operations on our market. It's their best way to make money and make good bonuses for themselves. What's there to change? The example you cited is a little odd, it's true, but it's not against the law. So it's not against the law as we think it is, but I'm not someone who should judge it, I've talked to Nela Kuburovic and other people who know about it. So, as Telekom negotiates with the bank, as the Postman negotiates with the bank, as every company negotiates with the bank, so comes this and that court negotiates and says – give us more favourable conditions. Now, there's a solution. At any moment, if the case is connected to that bank, you're asking for the judge's exception if he took any credit. We don't have here, I think, Neela, there's no way that we can act like a state and change that. Each organization has the right to fight for its employees as favourable as possible, and the bank determines and decides who will be its client. They have thus achieved somewhat more favourable conditions for their employees, employees satisfied, but it is true that those who have received that kind of privilege should not in particular cases concerning the very same bank to make a decision. As for the people who are members of the SNS, no one can be a member of the SNS, it's incompatible with the judge's office. It could have been when he wasn't a judge, someone was, someone wasn't. When he's a judge, he can't be. You could have noticed something else and been completely open. We haven't changed that kind of frame, except for what the Constitutional Court decisions have changed in any way. As we haven't done in RTS, which everyone else has always done, I don't know what laws to use and post their journalists, editors and everything else, so we haven't done it, and there's always the same leadership and all the editors from the period of government of some other political parties, so we haven't changed anything in courts either. Now the common people don't understand why you haven't changed. Well, we just didn't change for legal certainty. Because we want judges not to change by any change in power. Because we want civil servants not to change by any change of government. Because we want these people to be professionals, to do their job according to the Constitution and the law, no matter what it looks like. The funniest thing is when I listen to stories, because people don't know it, so they say – The Wolf has an impact on the Prosecutor's Office and the Prosecutor has the same effect. It's exactly the same as our prosecutor, Mrs. Dolovac hasn't changed in seven to eight years. How much? Here, they say six or seven years. It doesn't matter. So she hasn't changed. The same case was up until the end of the term and with the special prosecutor. It's the same case in our courts, but it's a problem for someone else to admit it, because they all go from the same mantra that they're always the same, just to get something. No, we haven't changed that. At this point, we have increased credit activity, but it is not half as much as Serbia needs to increase economic growth. But, of course, by reducing uncharging loans and everything else, I think we'll be able to solve that problem. What other question was there? I was writing down, but I probably didn't write down the first question. It doesn't matter. Anyway, I'm sorry and thank you. Once again, we're going to let our People's Bank take a look at this. I don't think there are any secrets, they publish their reports, what measures they've taken towards all banks. I think it's important to protect the controllers. I don't think there's anything going on here. We had problems on two sides of the bank, with two domestic banks, but they weren't problems we couldn't solve. Today, we have a truly stable banking system that, of course, does not have that dose or kind of functionality that we would like exactly because of the uncharging loans and the weaknesses of the domestic economy above all. To go back, to show how sorry you're wrong about these other things you've been saying, they're mostly looking at how and how to invest here in foreign companies. They have greater confidence, because of the markets they have, for the safety of their business, for the safety of their goods. Now, we need to change that to ourselves, to make our companies stronger, to make our companies stronger, to make Serbian firms stronger so that we can get such support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1238	Thank you. The People's MP Veroljub Arsic has the word, and let Dusan Petrovic be prepared. (Srdian Nogo, from the place: Replica. ) You must be offended, the point was not offensive, attitude 104, meaning, insult, must have elements of insult. Tell a colleague who has more time to mention it in his presentation. Veroljub Arsic has his word and Dusan Petrovic has his word right after him.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1239	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable candidates for ministers, Mr. Prime Minister, during this discussion, I've heard very strange things about your exposé. It seems to me that my colleagues in the former regime can, as far as the exposé is concerned, object only to its length, and they seem to have forgotten how this exposure occurred and most of their discussions resembled those discussions from 2012 or 2014. And perhaps their discussions would make sense if you, as the bearer of a single list that received the support of the vast majority of Serbian citizens, had come from the opposition. However, my former regime MPs forgot that the elections were held when the SNS was in power and you were the current prime minister. They forgot my colleagues that the policy led by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which you led, received absolute support from the citizens of Serbia. When the success of a government and government is appreciated, the infallible judge is the people. The same people voted on the former government, so they are at 5%. 5.5%, 6%. And they give themselves the right to say that the citizens of Serbia have won what they have given you, Mr. Vukic, that you are a bad mandater, that you were a bad Prime Minister and that your government that you led to today was bad. Someone insults the people, not us, the MPs, not you, but the citizens of Serbia. And why are they insulting them? Because Serbian citizens won't allow themselves to be robbed anymore. They won't let them fail anymore. In your exposé, you mentioned, let's say, that they spent 4.4 billion euros from 2009 to 2012 to maintain the rate of dinar. I can tell you've been gentle. You didn't say everything. During 2008, nearly a billion euros were spent from August to 31.12. Nearly 5.5 billion euros were spent for four years. The euro rate in August 2008 was 78 dinars, 6 August 2012, 119.80 dinars. Someone spent 5.5 billion euros on a stable dinar course, while the dinar jumped 50%. Now they're surprised the citizens won't be in the ministerial chairs. Well, of course not, 10% inflation is 11%, 12%, but every year at the calculated rate, it's 50%, the rise in the euro is 50%. That's half down by the economy's crafts capital and 50% down the population's standard of living. Not to talk about loans, 30% of how much the economy could be in debt or Serbian citizens. Then they're surprised the citizens won't support them. In the work of the previous government, and they say this exposé looks a lot like the one of two years ago, and I'm only asking a logical question now, so these exposés from a few years ago and the results of government work and respect for those promises made here in the National Assembly have been supported by citizens. Of course, the government's previous work is the basis for the future government's work, because Serbian citizens supported such a policy. I can tell you that it wasn't easy to do the results of the previous government and continue to run one responsible policy. Our political insinuators, I won't use harsh words, they attacked you even because of the 2014 flood. They tried, behold, to blame you for the elemental accident that struck Serbia and to make political points out of it. Well, something more ground floor, something more inhuman, I haven't seen in my life, that someone's accident is used for political purposes, that someone can talk about the politics and work of this government, and as president of the municipality didn't get five or six percent of the votes in their municipalities. I don't know what that's about. I can say, as much as they attack you for fiscal consolidation measures, the citizens of Serbia have said what they think about it, and I can say that I don't know, let someone correct me if they know that a country that has implemented fiscal consolidation measures has kept gross income at the same level, let alone increased it, except that Serbia has managed to do so. There were discussions here and about youth outflows, and by your government elected in 2014 those who cared about young people did not allow our students studying abroad to nostrify diplomas here in Serbia or to charge them with three, four and five thousand euros. Your government has made it possible for a few thousand dinars, for those people who have studied abroad to bring their knowledge to this country and maybe pass it on to someone as further scientific workers. These are all the results the previous government had. Serbian citizens expected and expect you to continue this policy. As MPs, we have been obliged by the previous elections to support this policy so far in the future. That's why I no doubt expect your government to be elected today.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1240	Before I give my word to MP Dusan Petrovic, I just want to respond, as I am accused of violating Article 46. The constitution again on Twitter by one of the MPs, who apparently wants to communicate with all of us only through Twitter, that I want to ban freedom of speech on Twitter. I mean, the public doesn't even think about me getting involved with what anybody's gonna write on Twitter. But what is my duty is to defend Parliament's dignity and all MPs and not to allow any of you to be on social networks or in the media as cattle... You can wave at your business all you want. Now I'm going to call one at a time to see if you know anything about this Rules of Procedure, since you've all raised the Rules of Procedure, and I'm convinced they're new and you haven't opened them yet. So I won't let, regardless, political belongings and gender equality, nationality, religion, be called cattle, animals, that you're a farm here. I'm not gonna let anyone say that Alexander Wolfie, on Twitter, of course, brought horses in here. Yeah, there's all this on social media today, by respected politicians here, who talk about me preventing freedom of speech. I won't let that happen. You can characterize me any way you want, but I'm doing it even because of you tweeting in breaks, because he hates you to listen to others when you speak and you threaten the freedom of speech in this House, because when someone doesn't play the same music as you do, you get out quickly to insult your colleagues. I won't let you do that. It's my right. That you call us cattle and tell the MPs they're a farm. You get the same salary as the ones you say you're cattle and don't be disgusted by that pay. As far as I know, you didn't refuse to receive any money and receive a fee for working on Twitter, which the state pays. So don't insult us, or I'll ask you on the Administrative Board to be punished for jeopardizing Parliament's dignity, so I can see how all your colleagues characterise you there, because you're talking about all the MPs when we write it. Branislav Mihajlović, what do you say? What's the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go. (Saša Obradovic, from the post: I answered. You are not Branislav Mihajlović. There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. So this is just a performance. I'm going to suggest that I put you in the repertoire next time there's a Belgrade Game Festival, because this really doesn't make sense what you're doing with parliament. This really doesn't make sense. We're here to work, and this is what the citizens of Serbia, and your voters didn't expect, I'm convinced of that. I will now give my word to Mr Dusan Petrovic of the DS. Here you go. Is Dusan Petrovic in the O.R.? You must re-apply or give up, however you wish. Here you are, Dusan Petrovic. Have Marko Parezanovic prepare.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1241	Dear President, dear colleagues, Mr. Vukic, candidates for members of the government, I will not give up, why would I give up Mrs. Gojkovic, let's say something too. The party Together for Serbia will vote against the government. We have a completely different view of how policy should be established and approached. I don't think the four-year centralisation in Serbia is going to come out of this process without a major loss of energy. I think it's the essential and biggest problem that the government and this era that Alexander Vukic is marking has. Where we have the opportunity and influence, we'll do everything we can to get citizens to have the greatest influence in decision making and at the level of settlements, people will have the opportunity to decide on the property tax that is collected in these populated places. I am convinced that this is the only way to wake up great and significant energy and that people are starting to participate in public policy. What Mr. Vukic was talking about here was completely one natural consequence of centralization of state affairs. If such a high percentage of citizens' business entities, whatever, does not behave in accordance with the rules governing how tax obligations are handled. If it's 80% or 90%, then it means that it's not a good system, and that citizens are acting against regulations is just the consequence of all of it. So I don't think that these huge energies will be able to happen unless the citizens get institutional opportunities to participate in the decision-making process and that without the essential real decentralisation, it's not possible. I found encouraging places in the exposé in two places. One thing is that within a short period of time, the proposal for a regulation that needs to be fully clear and transparent to regulate the way in which all revenues, whether electoral, transferable, will be determined by local self-government. Here, I'm looking here at the finance minister, I don't see very well from this corner of Mrs. Brnabic, future minister, but I think we're going to have a big and important debate if there's no movement here, we're going to have very significant problems. And, with great patience, I expect this debate about changing the functioning of institutions and the political system. I think that we will come to the conclusion that regionalism as in other countries of Europe and Italy and France, therefore, countries that are traditionally centralized, is a good solution and that we will have the opportunity to change this poor state of affairs. What is second, but a legal lack of policy that has been under way for four years, this is already the third government, is that there is no fundamentally clear concept of development policy. I think it's a good thing that things are moving in the right direction with all fiscal indicators and that the deficit situation is better than it was, but I think it's just one thing about economic policy. Without clear projects that only the state can launch, but to encourage, I think that Serbia will find it difficult with these growth rates to make it possible for its citizens to come as quickly as possible to a better standard. I'll just say two or three things here. I don't think our representatives at NIS have done their job well in the past. Here, there is the future Minister of Economy, Mr. Knezevic, and there is Mr. Obradovic, who will again be Minister of Energy, I think we have failed to make a good decision on the big investment NIS is now conducting. As things stand, it might be over by 2019, maybe not, it's a deep process. If a different technology had been chosen, that pro would have been a hundred million dollars bigger than it would have been. This way, if these things are done properly. It's a shame you didn't talk to President Putin, when you had so many opportunities, about this thing. So, this $500m investment, what you said in the exposé, and what can be read by 30 or 40 companies that have invested along with the state's incentives, money has invested some of the over 500m euros here. These 50-ac, they're here somewhere at 600m euros. This investment would be 300 million dollars, it could have been $500 million in three years. It's so important, and I think it's too bad this job wasn't better done. On the other hand, I'm talking about it the fifth or sixth time, biomass is a great opportunity and a great opportunity. You have one or two sentences about it in the exposé. 50% will reduce consumption, i.e. the issue of energy money for all who are heating up in Serbia. I know Marko Blagojevic deals with these things, and here's Mr Antic, this is a big subject for you and a great opportunity to do something good in Serbia. Mr. Nedimovic takes over here a serious and large resource of agriculture. I'm sorry, again, that in your exposé you're only in one half-species of irrigation and not as a structural project but as a help to farmers and businesses dealing with agriculture, therefore, help the state, on the issue. We have 200 thousand acres of irrigation, and we can have a million and 200 thousand and you're looking at it restrictively, that's about 500 thousand acres. Since the mandater here spoke of poor average yields of wheat and corn, there is no increase without this basic change, therefore, without irrigation it is not possible to make bigger money in agriculture. I don't understand why, here, Mr. Antiću, there is also a prime minister, a mining strategy, entered this parliament in 2012, there was no adoption of it and its application. In 2012, after being completely rounded up, I even think with the unions agreed project around Resavica, here we are in August 2016 and unfortunately this significant issue continues to be very burdensome for all the employees in Resavica, but also for the entire system of public finances. It would've been a bit of a mirage if you'd finished your work on the government faster, but you did it when you could. The president of the party Together for Serbia, who is also the mayor of Sapca, Nebojsa Zelenovic is awaiting the formation of this government, because he has made good preliminary talks with significant Canadian partners and I think that very soon you and Mrs Mihajlovic, the minister of traffic, will have a serious topic on the possibility of opening talks on the highway or motorcycle concession between Ruma and Šapca and perhaps in some other distances. He also managed to close a memorandum with the great Japanese firm "Jasaki" and is waiting now to enter, therefore, the mayor is negotiating for a year and a half about it, and of course, those who are in charge of it, I am not saying that you are not doing it, but waiting for this process to be completed, so I think there will be good and significant things that can be done together, and that the efficiency of the government can be greater. At the very end, about one unpleasant thing, but I want to share it here with you, therefore, from where the future Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Aleksandar Salesanovic, who is a significant political figure, is in that place two months ago at his house, the unknown perpetrators fired several shots. Here, for two months we haven't been able to get any information on all this, so here's the thing for the mandate and above all for the Home Secretary, Mr Stefanovic. It is not good that in one country that opened these chapters, negotiations with the EU, for so long we have no answer to the question of what happened to any citizen, and that is to say to a man who deals with politics and circumstances at this point in time in opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1242	Thank you. Dear Members, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we will be working after 1800 hours today to end the discussion and join the vote on the government. Are the new MPs ready? They did. Please come in. After the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's Ambassadors at the National Assembly for the vacant seats, in order to enable them to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been given RIK's decision to assign MPs to full seats. You have been presented with the Report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs, which has determined that the conditions for confirming the mandate have been met with a proposal for the National Assembly to comply with Article 27(5). The Law on the Selection of People's MPs finds confirmation of the mandate to the MPs, and that is Stanislava Janosevic, Nenada Mitrovica and Dr Ivan Bauer, selected from the election list Aleksandar Vukic – Serbia wins, Jovanovic Jovanovic selected from the electoral list Enough was – Saša Radulović, Dragan Vesović chosen from the election list Dveri – DSS – Sanda Raskovic Ivić – Bosko Obradović and Bajru Gegić selected from the SDA Sandzak – Dr Sulejman Ugljanin. On the basis of the decision of the RIK and the report and the proposal of the Committee, the competent committee of the Assembly, as referred to in Article 27(5). Law on the election of MPs, I find confirmation of the mandate for MPs Stanislava Janosevic, Nenada Mitrovica, Dr Ivan Bauer, Jovanovic, Dragan Vesovic and Bajr Gegic. I call upon you to approach the oath, according to Article 17. The Law on the National Assembly. (The President reads the text of the oath, and the MP repeats it. ) "I swear to defend the duty of the civil servant in a committed, fair, conscientious and faithful constitution, to defend human and mankind rights and civil freedoms and by my best knowledge and to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice." Thank you. I congratulate you on your behalf and on behalf of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and on behalf of Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic. Please sign the text of the oath and wish you successful joint work in the upcoming term of office. You will hand over to the secretary, and we will continue to work on the agenda of the session. The word has Marko Parezenović, and let MP Dusan Pavlovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1243	The Honorable President of the Assembly, the Honorable Prime Minister, candidates for members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today the National Assembly is choosing the new Government of the Republic of Serbia, which in some way represents the continuity of the work of the previous government in the past two years, two years that were really extremely difficult, both because of the difficult situation in which the country was due to decades of wrong policy, and because of the most difficult global circumstances that have been seen through the conflicts of major forces, which are somehow most reflected in small countries, and further dramatic floods that we had at the very beginning of the work of the previous government, the migrant crisis, and I would say that nothing missed us in the previous two years. In such circumstances, I believe that the results that have been achieved are not small and that anyone who does not respect them is deluded and malicious. I consider the exposé itself to have been very substantial and exhaustive, as in these two days the prime minister's answers, and many of the questions I've been wanting to ask, I've already heard the answer. I'll look back on just a few points of exposure that seemed most interesting to me, and I'll try to be as short as possible since I don't have too much time. An extremely important, equally difficult task in the coming period is public enterprise reform. We have to do everything we can to create a healthy state. One of the basic conditions for stable finance is a productive and efficient public sector. About two and a half years ago, the previous government adopted a very important and courageous regulation, a public sector employment ban regulation. From that moment on, the number of new employees in the public sector is far less than those who retire, which is the first time in 20 years, it has always been that the number of new employees is much higher and for the first time we have a situation to reduce the number of employees in the public sector. This has not been so before, and this very accumulation and pumping of the public sector has contributed to a sharp rise in the budget deficit and the rapid growth of our public debt. All this because it was much easier to buy votes with unrealistic salary increases in the public sector, because there was no political courage to put the general interest ahead of the interests of political parties, that is what we must keep repeating and that everyone in Serbia must know, because certain political parties risked the country's future to extend the remainder of power. I also think that this regulation in some areas should be a little more flexible and that the health minister may understand me, you know best, of course, how long it takes to create an experienced and good doctor. If we don't perfect enough young people, when those who are already experienced and relatively close to retirement stop treating people, we can get into trouble in the future and it seems to me that some institutions in the interior can, above all, have this problem in perspective. I think we should deal with this, work on making the personnel structure in our healthcare facilities as good as possible in the future. Experience has shown that all countries that have invested in their education system and made it more modern and efficient today are rich and economically developed. I thought of this topic a little bit more to talk about, since the prime minister announced that at the end of the year it would be on the agenda of the Education Reform Act, there would be time to discuss it in more detail. What's a general impression, is that there is a dominant theory in our education system, which leads young people to have little practical knowledge when they finish school and just a dual education system should help young people get something more valuable than a diploma, which is knowledge. I must also refer to the question of sports, although there have been a lot of words about it, I believe that privatisation in sports is very important and I am convinced that this government will have the strength to even begin this job in this term. Simply, as a country, we don't have enough money to finance professional sports and our big clubs, in that sense, that they achieve some top-notch results, although we know that today many are opposed to it. I think they're opposed not because they're too concerned about clubs and sports, but they have some other motives, but I think we should all try to change it together, I just think that we should continue to invest in our sports courts, gyms, athletic paths, in this way motivate children to get off the streets, to take care of their health. I understand that this is not the only problem, and I recognized myself in the comment of the prime minister in that first day of the exposé. Even in my day, when I went to school, and that was really very soon, our biggest problem was how to find a free playground. Today, however, some other rules apply, and I think that the Ministry of Sports must do a lot of work on affirmation of school sports in the coming period. Also, I would also like to praise that we are increasingly noticing that there are others who may be less popular sports, besides football and basketball, and that there are many athletes who bring us much joy and who we are proud of and want to praise the Serbian government for having taken a serious approach and for helping our Olympics in a serious way. I wouldn't comment on the personally proposed candidates for ministers. I think their results and their work will say the best. What's very important is that they have someone to look up to. The team can't be successful if the team leader doesn't set up a high scale. What fascinates me when it comes to the mandate itself is this highly expressed desire to perfect, acquire new knowledge, commit to work, and I think Serbia can be proud to have a prime minister who does the most responsible job in Serbia in such a serious way. Of course, we've heard a lot of criticism, and that's fine, but we also have to comment on who these criticisms come from, and they come from individuals who have no authority in either their own parties, who have not taken responsibility for the electoral fiasco or their own parties, and they want to teach us lessons here. Some did not even have the decency to listen to the exposés, and they did not respect all the citizens who voted for this government. Also, what I heard and what is very strange to me from several representatives of the opposition is that they sort of resent the prime minister for having called the elections, and for months before the elections every day you asked for elections and talked about how it was only a matter of the moment when the Serbian Progressive Party would fall and you would come to power. Now, when you saw the opinion of Serbian citizens, you're suddenly angry about why the election was called, so in a few months you'll probably be looking for new elections again. Also, I would like to point out that during the previous period, the government of the Republic of Serbia paid serious attention to central Serbia and we really do not care too much whether the highway to Corridor 11 will be used on August 25th or October. What is important is that it slowly becomes public, with the desire to keep the entire stake from Belgrade to Požega in office until the end of this government's term. I'm sure Preljina, because it's very important for us to go to Požega to get traffic out of the Chačan bypass. Another thing I want to point out, I hope that during the term of office of this government we will begin building a sea corridor. This is very important for us in central Serbia. We want to remain in central Serbia, to develop central Serbia, to attract new investments, new jobs and to provide a better future for our citizens in that part of Serbia. I wish you good luck, to you and to all the members of the government, with the desire to fulfill most of your ambitions and everything you've brought to the exposé. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1244	The word is by MP Dusan Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1245	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, respected citizens, I'm going to be talking about a new social policy for a new golden age. I have two quotes to read. One is from the written version of the exposé, the other is from the oral one. It says in the written version like this – our plan is to involve working-skillers of social assistance through work activation in the process of work. Then it's added to your oral version -- you can't take social aid without cleaning up the street. So you have something to do, you don't want to do. Now, if the state gives you money, you can come out and help us clean the leaves. The end of the quote. This is a completely misunderstood social policy and social assistance concept. Because people looking for social help are looking for help so they can live normal because they can't find a job. Of course, there are some who might want to fool the state, but that's a small number of people. If we're a responsible society, I think we need to be responsible society, we need to help people like that, we need to help people who want to work, and they can't find a job. It's often said -- there's no money, there's no money, there's no money for culture, there's no money for education, there's no money for social assistance. It's true, there's no money. How many times do you think we could pay for social aid to some single mother with children, who, for example, is unemployed, can't find a job, that "Er Serbia" didn't give a 48m-euro subsidy last year? You know, subsidies are given out of the budget. When you grant a 48m-euro budget subsidy, that means you have 48m euros less in the welfare budget. If you have a job for all those people who ask for social assistance, give them that job and tell them – this is your job and this is your salary. Many will accept. There is no reason to humiliate them by providing them with social assistance, by making them work for themselves to clean leaves. It's not only humiliating, it's cynical. We don't need a cynical social policy in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1246	Thank you. The word is Alexander Vukitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1247	I wanted Mr. Petrovic first. This last thing I heard is so pointless, and you'll understand why, it's hard to comment in a serious way. But Mr. Petrovic has set several serious issues, and I want to answer them. First of all, I disagree with the story of centralisation, because it is true that the central state intervened because of the disorder, incoordination and general chaos that exists at the decentralised level, which was made for party reasons so that some could cross the censorship at the republican level, at some other levels and could achieve better local results, because otherwise they can't. This has brought us such chaos that we pay salaries for kindergarten employees, but that employees don't get that money in kindergartens, but people take and transfer that money to football clubs, basketball clubs, usually themselves, just find another flow water heater. This was happening to us in a big city in eastern Serbia, and it was happening to us in a smaller municipality in western Serbia. What is also very important, this large Jasaki factory was not brought by anyone from Capca. I personally negotiated this large "Jasaki" factory, and the whole process and the whole process was conducted by my German adviser, George Haskens and Danilo Cicmil. They brought "Jasaki" to Sabac and we didn't make any problems. Just as much, I think it's important that people know, and of course, talk about the subsidies that the Government of the Republic of Serbia needs to deliver to them. About the biomass you mentioned, dear Mr. Petrovic, I want to explain once again to the citizens of Serbia why you will be seeing yachts everywhere, including in today's newspapers, those who say that Vukic is bothering them. You see them, they're always in the most expensive yachts in the most expensive places. I'll tell you why. It's just because of those so-called. Fid-in tariff, which I told you yesterday, because they say they're big businessmen and that Vukic prevents them from investing, and it's about next, so we'll come around biomass, to hear what the price is, to understand why we haven't developed it so far, although, if I'm not mistaken, Antića, so far we've given incentive measures for six biomass projects, because of course it is our obligation, our European obligation, as well as wind parks. The green energy is our European commitment. But I also personally see that we are stalling over it. Let me explain why. Because the price per megawatt watch you get from biomass is not 50, not 92, like for the wind, but 132 euros. So we pay three times the price for something we need to encourage and where someone makes the easiest money possible. What do we pay three times the price in conditions when we don't live rich? Our desire is to protect it. It is our desire to try to ensure that more money remains for the citizens of Serbia, not for someone else. And that pressure is really terrible, quiet with all the yachts. That pressure is terrible. While people work here, they order you from a yacht, and you're the one who's stopping the investment. Why are you stopping him from investing? Because you don't let Serbia get robbed. Like I'm not letting the State lottery get robbed, so I'm not gonna let other parts of our budget get robbed, and that's why. I know, as you know, that we're going to have to increase numbers and capacity by 2022, if I'm not mistaken, right? By 2022. In the consumption structure, 27%. It takes one 6%, seven percent to increase. How long are we going to have to cut out our budget for this kind of robbery? It doesn't matter. We'll see to it that we postpone it until the last minute, give them as little money as possible. As far as the rate of growth is concerned, I am completely in agreement with you. We need more growth rates, and where do you think you're going to tell me, Mr. Petrovic? (Dusan Petrovic, from the place: What? Because in your time, our highest growth rate was plus 1.1, and that's minus 3.6, and that's minus 3.6. We were only now able to return to pre-crisis time, at a time before 2008, only today, that's why... (Dusan Petrovic, from the post: I was not the Prime Minister. I was a minister. You were just a minister, you weren't the Prime Minister, you were just a minister. You're right, you were the agriculture minister who moved the agrarian administration to Sabac and that's why we couldn't use IPARD's money and now we got 175m euros, Mr Petrovic. Don't let me tell you any more (Dusan Petrovic, from the place: It's not true. Everyone knows what the truth is. Don't let us in now... Don't throw it at me, because with the greatest respect I've ever given you, I've listened to you, I haven't said a word, and you've already earned me 10 times. You people are talking about a dictatorship where you're not able to listen to the one that suits you with the utmost respect and that he hasn't told you a word and you throw me 50 times. What would you do if it were different and the situation was reversed? See what you do when you have 0.6% and what you would do if you had 50%. Imagine how many times you would throw away and how you would treat your political opponents. Fortunately, citizens know who to give 0.6% to, who to six, and who to whom 60% and good is that. It's going to work. It's going to work deep. We have problems with that, of course, for which we are neither guilty nor obliged, and we have been facing it for several years, because we cannot correct what the great Valtazar Bogisic would say – what the coat of arms is born, time does not correct, or, as Jojic has been, quintio vitisum est, potest kum ipse habet, in Latin, if I remember well from law school. So that's where the question arises-- are we going to coke or go to hydrocracking? Your government chose coxing in its own time. (Dusan Petrovic, from the place: It is not true. That's not true. That's what the Russians told us. Then the Russians didn't tell us the truth. We didn't choose either coke or hydrocracking. We talk to them about it within the framework of the strategy and we will see what the final decision will be. Of course, that decision, first of all, or the majority authority in decision-making, is made by the Russians, not us. It's not easy for us to set the conditions here. We would know right away if we told you what would be better for Serbia. Will we be able to fight? I'm not sure. As for Resavica, who pleases you, give us a solution today, and from your solutions to Resavica we have received only claims for unpaid shift work since 2005, which will cost us between 15 and 20 million euros. That's all we got from Resavica and a completely unresolved question for the miners in Resavica and everyone else. Today we must pay and pay for all that you have left for us. As far as social policy is concerned, David Cameron, the great British prime minister who has made the biggest growth of major European economies in his country, has just said the following sentence for social protection, quote... I was paraphrasing him. I'm a little man, but I'm looking. Angel Merkel was in paper twice as long as mine. So much for dictatorship that, to these unfortunate experts, who know nothing and don't read, I explain. So, 125 pages, and you've got 68. So I also want to inform you that the sentence of Cameron was something for something, not for nothing. I was talking about working people. If you don't have a job as a working man, please help us clean the leaves. I don't see why it's a shame to earn what you get from the state. It's not the job of the state, because I see you don't know any, no ideology you'd like to represent, to get us back into self-government, into some new cheese and insane. If people didn't think I offended someone, crazyism was a movement named after Ned Luda with the destruction of machines, etc. You'd like the most if no one did anything, that all the money was falling out of the sky. It's not possible. That's the kind of policy you run, and you're looking for people's support for that policy. I didn't ask for such a policy, I asked for a policy of work, I asked for a policy of seriousness and responsibility, for sick people, for disabled people, for old age, we'll always have over 200 thousand people to pay for. For single mothers, since you've been making up lies about Er Serbia again, I understand your pathological hatred for every successful project, because your president has never participated in any successful project except in this in California and America. He turned them down for all the money and it was very successful, and it was the only thing that was successful. Now that you're in pain and you're worried that someone else is successful, I can't help you. Serbian citizens look forward to it. As far as single mothers are concerned, almost above average, but at the top, I would say, European countries as regards the protection of the rights of socially endangered citizens who have a social need, the Republic of Serbia by many segments, of course, and maternity. In certain segments, even greater rights than in significantly more developed Western European countries, but what can you do? You don't care much because it's always easier to spread dissatisfaction. I am now asking the citizens of Serbia and asking a question to all of you in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and this was reminded by an ambassador, one of the Western countries, a few days ago. He says: "We understand everything, everything anyone does, but Mr. Vukic, did you notice that no investment, not one that has come to Serbia and has not supported any investors, not even one they have brought in themselves. Some strange policy is being conducted in Serbia. No actual investor is supported. When did you hear that any factory was supported, any company, that anything was said to be good? Never one. The "Fiat" doesn't support it either, we support it. Never any investors. Serbian citizens can notice. Nothing's ever good. When Mercedes' director comes to Icarbus, they say - run, get out of there, we don't need you. Whoever comes anywhere is no good to them. When "Continental" comes, it's not good. When the Bosch comes, it's not good. When Cromber Schubert comes, it's not good. When “Tenis” comes, the largest European meat manufacturer – get the hell out of here, run no matter what. Everybody out of the way. What Jovanovic would say, when people come to Belgrade on the water, who are chasing the whole world, who were chasing that same Cameron who invest 15.5 billion there, what, get away, run away, it's no good. They're the only ones who are smart, and their whole policy is on it. Don't do it. Like I told you, like I can't stand them sitting in this room and they're never here, except when it takes two words to say. They can't listen to anything, let alone do something serious. That's how they stand for it and only one thing, and that's that no one in Serbia is doing anything, and that everybody lives relatively well, and that they live very well. Serbia where you will stand up and fight for it to do nothing can't work. Only Serbia that works and Serbia can succeed, in which we will not waste citizens' money. Do you want me to tell you how many different examples we have where these people can go to sell certain products, they can manage to earn otherwise, but still have as an additional income social support for the state? That's more than 30, 35 percent. Now I ask you, what do we give money in such a way that we allow everyone to start their own company, start their own company in accordance with the law and make conditions better than 2/3 of the world's countries? There's no explanation. The explanation will be what is loved by the citizens. Since everyone's getting ready, did you see, when they get up to talk they get ready to talk like they're talking about the video and they're setting up both mouth and ears and everything else they're supposed to look like they're about to do a video for a TV campaign and so they say what they're up to and nothing else, there's no interaction. Don't do anything, we'll be great when we get there, we'll create a system for you, but before that, we'll destroy all the systems. And much more successful than this Serbian. Imagine the people who managed to break down the American system. Well, it's a hat down there, there's nothing to say, you just say every honour to people, that little who in the world succeeds and little who in the world can. But that's why everyone and everything they talk about and everything that happens to us is just -- don't do it, don't do it. Now, the difference is, which is your policy -- we don't want foreign investors, which we heard four times yesterday, out of four parliamentary groups, your policy is -- don't do, our policy is -- we want foreign investors, we want domestic businessmen, strong and domestic investors, but we want to work. And we're proud of work, we're proud of hard work, not running through that door every two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1248	Take it easy, guys. First, right on the line, Dusan Petrovic. Here you go. Comrade Radulovic, you asked for a replica, as far as I can see. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. [[Dusan Pavlovic, from the place: No, no, I was looking for a replica, and he was hurting the Rules of Procedure.]] Here you go, Mr. Radulovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1249	Thank you. Article 107, paragraphs 1 and 2 has been injured. That article does not allow insults and is not allowed to twist facts. The mandater, to explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure, said that it corresponds to everyone with the utmost respect, and then immediately after that he says things like – it's so pointless that it's not worth commenting on, they...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1250	My colleague Radulovich, I have not noticed that these are insults. I have to stop you. (Saša Radulovic, from the site: If you allow the explanation. Up to two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1251	It means: “I see that you don’t know, you’re making it up again, I understand your pathological hatred, I can’t stand to sit down, they’re being set up for the video... “
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1252	Comrade Radulovich, I have to interrupt, I don't see here... (Saša Radulovic, from the post: This is a humiliation. ) Mr Radulovic, like this, you will have to stay in the Assembly as an MP, a little more time to realize that this is normal communication between political inexperiences. That you have a shallow tolerance for something you find offensive, that's your problem. But we can't always say things like this to say that it's an insult, especially when they're made full facts. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: The twisting of facts. I thank you. You have no right. I believe that the Rules of Procedure have not been broken, if you wish, the National Assembly will declare itself in the day of the vote. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: I want to. All right, thanks. Right on line, Dusan Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1253	I don't know, Mr. Wolfie, you have some preconceptions, so you don't listen to what's being said here. Here's Mrs. Brnabic, here's Minister Antic. I wasn't talking about cogeneration. I wasn't talking about the production of biomass electricity. I was talking about remote heating. 50% was cheaper than gas and magut. That's what I'm talking about, and you're accusing me of supporting some tycoons and whatever, but it doesn't matter. The second thing, you were wrong about NIS, it wasn't left to you by any previous government, you weren't good at negotiating... (Alexander Vukic, from place: Negotiations are now being held. ) You did not conduct the negotiations on changing the strategy well. You had Mr. Knezevic, Mr. Antic. I'm talking about very precise things, and I'm not talking about something here that I'm not very good at. I don't want to argue with you, this is a question of the greatest national interest, because this company's biggest public income here is being obtained, because it could happen to you in 2020 to close both refineries, because they're undermining their contractual obligation. Because that deep processing guarantees us that we'll have a refinery in Pancheva. It's over in Burgas, they have 12 million tons of capacity, it's a serious thing. That's what I've been talking about since November of 2013. The Agrarian Payments Authority was brought to Sabac three years before I became a minister. It's one of the biggest mistakes you've made, which you've transferred from Capco to Belgrade, so it's not working now. As for Resavica, take a look at the documents, Mr. Wolf. There are agreements between the union, the Ministry of Energy in 2012 on how to regulate Resavica, and you are now coming after four years. There's no reason for us to bile over it. These are the facts, I think in this House we need to talk clearly about important state matters. I do not insult you, as you do not fear me, nor do I fear you, why should they fear one another.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1254	Thank you. The word has a mandater.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1255	So, as for biomass in heating, you don't need a government at all. Public private partnership and you can do as much as you want. The government needs you for what I was talking about, so I was right. As for Resavica, give us that solution, which I pray to God. Give us that solution and don't wave your hands, you've been to the NIS Assembly, Mr Petrovic, I haven't. (Dusan Petrovic, from the place: I wasn't. You have negotiated and negotiated badly. Both you and your government. We are now negotiating, and we have very poor starting grounds, very bad starting grounds. And we're hardly going to do good things, just don't accuse us after that, because you've made us literally catastrophic preconditions for all of it. As far as the Agrarian Payments Authority is concerned, you're right, we've been paying for three years without getting a dinar. You know where we are? If Brussels had made it a condition for us, that Brussels for the accreditation of the system gave us a condition, transfer to Belgrade so you could think about ever getting IPARD's money. Today we received 175m euros by 2020. It's not a question of fear, I was very polite, and with all due respect, I didn't see any problem, I'm sorry I just reminded the citizens of how much if we're doing biomass for electricity, how much it costs today, and as far as remote heating is concerned, we don't have any problems, you're doing public private partnerships, it's good everywhere, they can work municipalities, they can do everyone else, and you have a Law on municipal activities. We don't have a problem. The government hasn't made a problem for anyone, nor will it. Here is Nedimovic who did it in Sremska Mitrovica, and I don't think there's any trouble and any problems. Was the sunflower used, whatever it was, but the government didn't make any problems. The government will cause both problems, regardless of 2020, because we don't want to waste people's money. Because we want to save them as much as we can. When I walk past those four windmen we have built and some where I know they'll be built, my head hurts, and this would hurt me even more. My head hurts because I know how much money we owe, how much money we gave to do it. By the way, by the way, how many people at the Agrarian Payments Authority who were in Sapco, how many people were working from Belgrade? Every day they had to take the bus the government paid for and the government was returning. Just to see how much we've saved, otherwise I don't mind that kind of decentralisation. I wish we had more institutions of the republic and more other institutions to have in other Serbian cities, just so it doesn't bring new costs. Only that we have enough human capacities to organize this in Nis, Kragujevac, Sapac, Pogorevac and every other place in Serbia. Only that we have enough human capacities to organize this in Nis, Kragujevac and Sapac and Pozharevec and in every other place in Serbia. You couldn't see the bile talking to you at all. I seem to have spoken with argument and it seems to me that these arguments are standing. I have nothing to do with NIS, except to complain about certain things, to torture, to talk twice about it with Putin and Medvedev, to fight as much as possible, but not to repeat and not quote Balthazar Bogisic, simply, they are a big investor, they are very important to us and we will have to fight for as best contracts in the future. If we're gonna make it, I'm not sure, let me tell you right now. If you have a solution, help us. If you have any brilliant solution to Resavica, please come to me, I'm in Austria tomorrow, for the weekend, whenever you want and let us handle it. He'll be all ministers, all directors, everyone who decides on the process. Let's work this out because we don't see him, we don't see a good solution. Whoever has it, come to us, we'll do it right now, just give it to us. I'm afraid he's gone. I'm afraid he's gone and no one can find him. If you have it, welcome, we will tell everyone, we will spend it in action and we will tell everyone that it is your solution and that you can be proud of it and that we support you in that and that we are grateful that the government could put your ideas into action. I don't want to put you into action. Those ideas to sit down, chew gum, then go out for three hours and come back to give us lessons, those ideas I'll never support, and that's why work. (Dusan Petrovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1256	You don't have the right to replicate your colleague Petrovic. All you got was an answer. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1257	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, who knows that one doesn't speak out loud, who doesn't know that noise. I'm advertising Article 107. — The dignity of the National Assembly, Article 1. Dignity is broken even when someone gives false information. You can't charge the energanes on biomass or seek government if you rule a single city. Energy permits for thermal energy are not issued by the government of the Republic of Serbia, but rather issued by the city. Therefore, counterpart Petrovic has no problem raising those energy sources to heat energy and heating up the city of Sabac because he does not need any government permission, since these permits are issued by local self-government. He's not going to do it, of course, like we didn't find his gulf systems and his biomass plants when we arrived in 2013. Who knows he doesn't know, he already knows something, and this is an opportunity for Mr. Petrovic to learn something. Thank you. (Dusan Petrovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1258	I didn't know that information, so I couldn't break the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day? No, I don't. () Comrade Petrovic, you do not have the right to reply. (Dusan Petrovic, from town: There are some things to discuss. You do not have the right to reply based on what the Prime Minister has told you. I think every time the prime minister answers, every MP thinks he has the right to replicate. The answer is the answer. Someone might like it or not. The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1259	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister Vukic, ladies and gentlemen of the candidate and candidates for future ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have already heard in the statement by the president of the JS Group, Mr. Markovic, that the JS parliamentary group will support the choice of the Government of the Republic of Serbia as proposed by Prime Minister Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1260	Excuse me, Mr. Petrovich. I must interrupt to inform the citizens of Serbia that MPs have been elected from the list "Enough Has Been" have left the National Assembly session again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1261	Two reasons standing before the JS parliamentary group are why they will support the proposal by Prime Minister Vukic for the election of new ministers and ministers. The first favoured assessment of the government's work with Mr. Vukic in the previous two years, and the second reason is very clear, we must respect the majority of Serbian citizens who went to the 2016 elections because these MPs who will support and vote in favour of the government, proposed by Mr. Vukic, won almost 70% of the citizens who voted in this election. What's important for every country, and that's important for Serbia too, so it can move forward, develop, is that its citizens and children living in it have a perspective of life in it, which is two things. First, economic stability and second, political stability. It is very important to Mr. Vukic that in your short-range exposure, you said what JS pointed to in the earlier period that you would be giving the same rights when investing in new plants, new halls, new factories and domestic investors who have not been fully equated with inoinvestors so far for these or those reasons. This means we will continue to try to make as many foreign investors as possible in Serbia. However, it should not only be the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This work must be done by every local self-government, from the smallest to the largest, every municipality and every city, to find investors who want to invest in the municipality or in the city where they live through their opportunities, connections and acquaintances. The second thing I want to point out to you, Mr. Wolfie, in front of the JS Parliament Club when you mentioned education reform. I absolutely support this reform and I think it's one of the key issues that needs to be addressed in the coming period by this country, this government and the Ministry of Education. Today, we have a lot of colleges, higher and higher schools that are training staff literally for the Employment Fund. These frames end certain schools, but they don't have a chance to get a job tomorrow with that occupation either in the economy or out of business. For this reason, I think there should be a further shift, and one way is to see what is needed for Serbia for the next five, 10, 15 or 20 years from the profile of the profession. I don't think you should stop in that job, but you have to endure. In particular, we draw attention to you, in your presentation you touched that, and that's the development of so-called. rural environments. Minister and Minister's candidate, Mr. Prime Minister Vukic, you must know very well that Serbia is shrinking from day to day, that many parts of Serbia are emptying out to us. We today have many places that are only a geographical concept in Serbia, and no one lives in these places. According to some of my findings, in the next five or ten years hundreds of these villages and villages will also run out of inhabitants and will be empty. In order to prevent this, the state must invest more in the development of rural areas, bring some investors into these small environments to keep young people to live, work, produce something that future factory owners will buy and rework. Therefore, our proposal is to base ourselves on the development of the processing industry in these small places, on processing, on the higher processing of strawberry fruit, fruit and vegetables and the like, as well as on the production of non-rich milk and other products, or not burdened with pesticides or some other materials that are being protected by products, and these goods are now in Europe and the world, there are requirements for its purchase. You were talking about judicial reform. In 2009, we had one judicial reform, we know how it ended. Two years ago, we improved some of the new laws on the territorial organisation of courts and prosecutors, but I also recommend that the new justice minister sees the possibility that in some smaller municipalities, which do not today have any judicial units, let alone courts, can be achieved in justice and in these cities. It does not have to be drawn, as it is now drawn, that every basic court must, I think, have seven, at least seven employees, can do so with two or three judges. Also, there should be a reform of the courts for violations, because we have, today, an example, an absurd situation, to say, in Pomoravlja, the Jagodina Court covers five municipalities of the Pomorav County, and the Paracina Court covers only Paracina Municipality. Where is it, let me say, reality? I could do a lot more, but time is running out.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1262	Bringing the end, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1263	One more thing to say, Unique Serbia welcomes the government's relations with some neighbours, I will not mention any, which still has a claim to our territories, calling for this or what, that the government is headed by you, Mr. Vukic, and with the help of Foreign Minister Dacic, has very strongly responded to all the teams that have as a cobects, as they would say, the desire to conquer some territory of Serbia, calling for some quasi of historical facts. You responded very well, and in this part you will have the support of the Single Serbia. Since my parliamentary group, I have already timed out, chairing me a reminder and yet I am a disciplined MP, so I will not violate the Rules of Procedure, in the end I would like to say once again that the United Serbia will warmly support the Government, Mr Vukic, and you and the ministers you have proposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1264	Please bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1265	In us, you will always have good, loyal and sincere associates, and all in the desire to live better in Serbia in the future, so that children stay with us after the school is finished, or to stay in Serbia, to create conditions for better living in Serbia, for Serbia to be a happier, richer and happier country than it is now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1266	Thank you. The word of the people is the Messenger of the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth; and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1267	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, two days ago we heard the exposés of Prime Minister Vukic, and the impression is that it is one extensive literary work. Good literary work grammatically and stylishly, but a missed theme. Let's remind ourselves of what was, very briefly, in that previous exposé, when Vukic was the prime minister at the time. Then there were many concrete promises, many big promises, but many things remained unfulfilled. Probably this time the prime minister didn't want to take any chances, so that's why this exposure is more like a general story. But we need to remind ourselves very briefly of a few things that marked this whole previous mandate, starting with the previous 2014 campaign, and then here. We haven't heard what's wrong with Al Dahra, what's with the 300m euros that were supposed to be invested in Serbian agriculture. Yesterday, the prime minister tried to explain this about a TV subscription, but it wasn't explained enough, because one thing is to say we cancel the subscription, and the other is to reintroduce it with just another name. What happened to Pribo, FAP, what happened to several times announced signing a contract with SIS? Nothing happened. What about the promise to make parts for Boing and Erbas in Serbia? What happened to the chip factory, the Emirs? What happened to a lot of promises? What happened to "Tenis" who just mentioned the prime minister? The contract, as we learned from the media, was to be signed in June. It's not signed. That's what was expected, at least that's what we were presented, a lot. Even so, our peasants did rebel a little, but who cares about that? Is that the reason for the increase in the price of pig meat? Here, there's an increase in price and chicken meat. So, of this beautiful life in Serbia, unfortunately, there's not much to be exact. When the mandate spoke, he read his exposés, but then in the part that he explained, he somehow got the impression that what he was saying was pretty far from real life in Serbia. Now I don't know if it's a bigger problem and whether it's more of a concern if the prime minister doesn't know what real problems are or if he does, and he pretends he doesn't. It's pretty dangerous for both of us. The term of office was like something epic, actually precise, as the greatest achievement was mentioned by the Labour Act. Well, this Labour Act is not the greatest achievement, but it has really made a big problem for the few employees in Serbia as many as there are. Says the prime minister that we have extra money, but that he can't be spent. We agree, of course, that money shouldn't be spent in any way, but if someone is working for a minimum of 21 and a half thousand, I don't think I know exactly what decimals are, but to say that with those 21 and a half thousand dinars, the increase to 22,000 someone means a great insult to the intelligence of citizens and an insult to the intelligence of this people. I don't know if the prime minister knows, or the prime minister, a 21-and-a-half-thousand salary made as a minimum in private, gentlemen, in the largest number of independent shops, primarily the baker, returns to Serbia, or part of it returns, five thousand dinars of those 21-and-a-half thousand dinars, returns to whoever hired the worker, we're in cash. When the subject of "Jura" was launched, whether workers had to wear diapers or not, whether they were paid, or not paying for overtime, then the resolution minister said they couldn't get around and control all the plants, or how to call them, because none of these are factories, unfortunately, because there aren't enough inspectors. It's a really serious problem, if that's the case. That problem must not exist, Mr. Prime Minister. There can be no problem with the lack of inspectors to be the reason why someone can exploit employees of Yuri or elsewhere. We don't even know today whether it's true that the "Jura" inspection, which is missing, actually bought some cars, etc. These are topics that are of great interest to the citizens of Serbia, and I think we should talk about this a little bit before you take your oath again. You mentioned demography yesterday as a problem that really exists in Serbia, but the problem is that you did not offer any solution except Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Yes, there is a birth problem in Serbia, there is a problem with the birth of the first child. You know it's contained in the SRS programme and it's good that you accepted it, Mr. Prime Minister, but what is this government going to do to improve this demographic image of Serbia? It is not enough to say – it will fear Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. She was involved with some other restaurants and gave no results. So we think you've been saying too much in general, that again, in your style, you've been talking to and thanking the pensioners because they've made the biggest contribution to savings, as if someone's asked them about it. Please don't talk about raising pensions to pensioners, who have been taking part of their pensions for two years. In order for someone to have an increase, they must first return to the level that was before the reduction, and return what was taken in the meantime, and only then can it be said about the increase possible. You were wrong when you said yesterday that the pension was a constitutional category, or acquired a right, but not a pension level. Well, of course the pension level won't determine the Constitution, but once the pension is earned, it can't be reduced. The state can say -- respected pensioners, we don't have the money right now, so we'll cut you down, but as soon as we have the money, we'll pay you back. But the reduction is absolutely unconstitutional, which is also the decision of the Constitutional Court which is scandalous. The Constitutional Court said – we will not discuss this because the government's decision is temporary. It would be as if the Constitutional Court said – we will not discuss the proposal of the Criminal Code, we are allowed to kill, but only a month will we not decide because it is a decision of temporary character. There's a lot of abuse by the institutions of the system. I just need one more sentence about this so-called. an increase in pensions. You didn't mention that by increasing pensions, 14,000 pensioners actually got a pension cut. It's those who were some dinar below 25 grand pension, so when the pension increased by 250 dinars, then they skipped that level of 25 grand, and then their pension was reduced by 22 percent. That's 14 thousand in Serbia. The main problem is that you said at the beginning of the exhibition that you were doing all of this in line with the criteria of the EU, the World Bank and the IMF. We Serbian radicals believe that this is exactly the problem in the functioning of both the previous and these future governments because you rely solely on the EU, and you ignore the fact that we should turn to Russia as the only sincere friend of Serbia and the Serb people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1268	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marija Janjusevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1269	Thank you. I should've pointed out right after the Rules of Procedure's injury, but you didn't notice me. I'm advertising Article 103(2). - The MP cannot point to an injury in the actions of the President of the National Assembly which has already been indicated. Article 106, 107, and 27 today is advertised at least twice. We'll figure that out later in the stenograms. We will also determine whether this is repeated because the MPs may have been of the authority's option, but I would ask that by the end of the search there be no more such abuses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1270	I don't think there were any injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Doesn't mean that during a session there can be no more injuries to the same member. Yes, but every time an MP thinks he's hurt that same member again. In any case, the National Assembly may declare itself in the voting day whether it considers whether the Rules of Procedure has been injured or not. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? (No) I thank you. Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1271	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, I'm advocating Article 27 and 107. Namely, you manage the work of this National Assembly, you take care of the order, the dignity of the National Assembly is injured again, the session takes place. Some MPs during the session, so you're in charge of the entire session, going out to the hall and blatantly slandering and insulting the MPs, as well as ministers and candidates for ministers and prime ministers, the future Prime Minister. Namely, my fellow farmer decided to share a diagnosis in the National Assembly's hall in front of the press. As far as I know, he's not that guy's expert. It's interesting that the diagnosis is shared by someone, and here I am saying, who hasn't served the army due to the diagnosis. The truth is, from 2000 to 2004, candidates for ministers were doing medical examinations on VMA. There are usually those who served the army, but there were exceptions, so I'm saying it was the exception. Too bad they didn't do the IQ test back then, I say my fellow farmer would be bionegative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1272	Thank you. I don't think I can answer for breaking the Rules of Procedure for what's going on outside the O.R. Do you want to make a statement in the voting day? (No) The word has the term of office of Alexander Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1273	I'm not sure the citizens could understand everything that's going on here, but let's say again, to show people what the main topic is today in many people who are not in the O.R. or are mostly not in the O.R., and then they complain about someone who is not in the O.R., and some others who shouldn't be there, and the only thing they do is the most brutal insults to the account and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Serbia. In order for the citizens to know, Dragan Marsican has just announced that I have introduced the ergel of horses into the assembly and the government. Zoran Zivkovic just said in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that I am mentally ill and that I could not pass that kind of examination, because I don't think he knows what kind of review it is. Today we've heard other insults about dictatorships, and it's from those, you know, when someone tells you about dictatorships and they say it in the media and it says it in this Assembly, it's contractedio and idecto, so much they could learn. But we are talking about the seriousness of the pressure that will continue. It will continue in the days ahead of us, weeks, months, until it allows them or until they get their hands on again the opportunities to rob Serbia's state lottery, which I took as a paradigm, not only for the Serbian State lottery, but also for everything else they robbed and what they did during the previous period. It is important that the citizens of Serbia know that. Let me try to answer part of the remarks. My work certainly wasn't literary, my work was fiction, numbers, reviews, cuts. Nothing, but nothing was literary, and nothing was in general. Even when I was talking about demographics, I said very precisely that we don't know solutions and we don't have them. If we had them and those solutions were clear, the whole world would use them and use them because a good part of the especially modern and richer world has big problems with it. When I listen to nonsense on our televisions and I read in our newspaper that because of small incomes and small birth rights and I don't know what we have fewer children, I know right now that we're talking to the ignorant, because first they don't know how many rights they have here, how much in other countries, and secondly, they don't know that's exactly the most pronounced problem in the richest countries of Europe and the world, that we have to change something in our minds. How do we change? We don't know. I have given you a concrete example where certain results have been given, and I have not further commented on the reasons you can recognize, because it would be bad if I had commented on them, it's about Macedonia, I could be accused of some other things. So, to some extent, it produced results, and to another extent it did not. But we are all prepared to accept the initiatives of all those who know how to help, and therefore Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic was given a difficult task to offer us measures and solutions. If you have measures and solutions that you guarantee will give a good result, there's no problem. It's not as easy as you think. Mrs. Djukić Dejanovic will listen to them anyway, and we will allocate the money and you will see that it does not go that easily and will certainly not be seen for the next four, five and six years. I should like to tell the people and Mr Petrovic right away – and in five years we will hear an even more difficult story about a small number of people in the villages, there is general urbanisation, general urbanisation. There are no countries in Europe where towns have fewer inhabitants and villages more. None, it's part of the globalisation process. I wish we had solutions to stand up to it, but we don't have it, because many of us who talk about it, I was born in Belgrade by accident, and I wouldn't give myself the right to live in Belgrade anymore, but Mandic or anyone else. Everyone's right, because we love this town and we think it's good here. But if we can and would do something to show people that it can be good in rural areas in Serbia. Although I was born in Belgrade I always say I'm not from Belgrade and I'm proud of it because my parents aren't from around here. As for Jure, it is my fundamental disagreement with you, apparently with a large number of people in the National Assembly, possibly with many in my parliamentary group. I'm quite sure it's my disagreement with 90% of Serbian citizens. That's why it's easy to talk the way you said it, so it's receptive and simple, and I think it's quite the opposite. I think at first that no one is exploiting anyone, because in our country there is still a way of thinking that changes, and that's why a few days ago I was grateful when I was overjoyed, when I saw on one television for the first time that there was no self-inflicted, they asked the man that the price of pork was increased, he said – it's not scary for me, but I hope these producers will get better. Usually everybody just complains. I don't understand that labor is exploitation. I don't understand the meaning of the word "exploitation," I don't understand them. I know it's very popular. I know people complain they've been exploited and when they're supposed to work for two or three hours. I know some people whine when they're supposed to sit here for 10 minutes. I can't accept that. I just can't accept it. As I asked - where did those diapers for the workers come up, I still didn't get an answer where they showed up and who was that worker who was wearing diapers and he wasn't there, was a lie, one in a row. One of the countless in a row, and no one asked how many diapers were bought with money, because that factory was brought here and given for another family member, because it can't live on 22 and 23 thousand dinars, but if another family member is doing it to him, then it's something he can buy diapers from, from which he can buy funds for personal hygiene from which he can do something. If you have better ones, well that's not nice and it's not enough, you've got better ones, so give them to us, give them to us. I'm proud of my attempts with Sisu, we almost signed the contract, we're all done. I went to Finland twice, it didn't work, they asked for our 25m euros, if I'm not mistaken. Who's here? All you can see is Cicmil standing outside. So 25m euros asked us not to have the ability to control the spending of that money. We couldn't agree to that. Maybe we made a mistake. That's the only condition we couldn't agree to at that point. And I'm still eating because I think we made a mistake. But someone would tell me the next day if I didn't know what happened to that money, why did you agree without a guarantee from the Serbian government, to spend that money. Is that why I'm guilty? Well, I didn't create that problem, I tried to solve it, I fought for it with all my heart, with all my energy. And there will be such attempts, ten and twenty, but out of one hundred eighty will succeed. It's a job that you do on a daily basis and solve. Is there one of the mayors who's had 100% success with investors? Well, there's none. And we really did have a high percentage of success with investors, a high percentage. From the PKK to Cromberg Shubert, who employ thousands of people. Somewhere you succeed, somewhere you fail, it's important that you fight and work for your people, try to solve the problem and not break the law. You're talking about "Tenis," so there's no thing they didn't do that "Tenis" didn't come. It's not about that, and it has nothing to do with the increase in the price of pork, but you're right to have it in that sense that we brought "Tenis" and if we hadn't tripped it in and hit it in the head with a stick every moment we wouldn't have any problems with it today, we'd be the biggest pig producers, we'd still have it today, but in a year we wouldn't have it. But that's why it was, hit him with a stick in the head as much as you can, stop everything. Although I've asked some people, it's a German investor, I know that the vice presidents of the German government have invited some people in this country, don't do that, it's good for your country. It wasn't worth it because someone thought it was good for him as a political campaign and said – well, that's how you're going to destroy our peasants who are supposed to process the country there. These will pay the advance rent, we'll take the money in advance, which otherwise we can't take in advance, because every year we bid and torture how we will and what we charge for. We'll get factories, we'll get slaughterhouses, we'll get these modular farms where people work and we'll produce cattle, pigs twice as much as we make them today. This way we won't be able to increase it. Who was that bothering? It bothered the interest groups, lobbying behind the fact that they were protecting the little man and the peasants, and they weren't protecting any small man, but they were protecting the tycoons that were binding it, who were always entitled to this land and look at what we were able to do now, say, in Pancheva. In a short time, a bid was made on time, done so that farmers would get small, not that tycoons would then deploy to them. And these are the problems we're facing. I don't want to answer whether it's an insult to intelligence or not. I think I know how people live because I'm moving around Serbia, I know how hard people live, but I know that it can't change overnight or day after day. It will take many more years for people to feel a better life, but it's not as bad a life as it is for those who are the poorest. They'll notice you're not the poorest, they're the richest in the world. They're always the loudest. These poor people understand everything well, and they work to improve their position. Let me ask you, when was that, and when was that good in Serbia? When did any of us, any of you say that in Serbia is okay? In what period of Serbian history was it good? What if it wasn't good in Tito's time when we waited for a five-year loan so that for 15 years we could return to flag 128 or flag 101? Today such a car doesn't exist on our streets, it almost doesn't exist. What good time was that? Milan Stojadinovic was blackened, which was one of our most successful Prime Ministers. We Serbian communists in the majority, without talking about it, were neither good for King Alexander nor for King Petar, nor was any of Obrenovic ever good for us. Well, when was that good for us? Did we Serbs ever say that someone was worth anything except when they died? We never did. And that's what we say when he dies, and you want me to tell you why. Not because we think he's really worth it, and because we really respected him, he dies, gets killed, or whatever you want, not because we really respected him, but because he's no longer our obstacle to anything, he's not our competition. That's why we can show you drink and show respect for nothing else. Well, that's why we don't have enough monuments for our last-war victims, and that's why we're only going to be working on a special square right now. That's why I don't have a monument to Stefan Nemanja. We don't have the relatives of the German Monument Dynasty in Belgrade. We don't, we don't have King Alexander's street, so we have the street of his assassins and organizers and whoever tried. What do you want? You have it all in our country, because nothing is ever good in our country, nothing is ever good, anything but go ahead and curse something if you can and go and crash. We did great when we brought down this National Assembly. We didn't take it down, but we pretty much destroyed it. We still can't figure out where they are, we still can't find the canvass. As for the increase and reduction of pensions and the Constitutional Court, I think the Constitutional Court is competent to comment and not you. As for the reduction and the increase in pensions, I'll remind you first of 61% of pensioners have more pensions than they've ever had. These 39% pensioners have fewer pensions and I've never kept it a secret. These 61% have even nominally higher pensions, not nominally, but realistically, and these 39 have less and nominally and realistically, and we're going to change that, but these pensioners wouldn't have pensions precisely because of what was done in this country and how is the rule. And I said, he'll have bigger pensions. So, they're going to have more pensions and nominally than what they had and because of the low inflation, it's going to mean a lot more. That's what I was saying about public sector wages. Not for management, not for administration, but for teachers, teachers, professors, that's what I was talking about for health workers, for social workers, for the military and for the police. I think I'm very specific and I'm talking about it. And to be perfectly honest, since the ideas that have been published in these two days are, that the workers have been exploited, that everything is terrible, so that everyone can do so much better without foreign investors, I don't know where they'd make their growth, so let me ask, if someone could explain it to me. Just explain to me where you'd make your growth, because I know how to make GDP growth and I see that many don't know, so tell me where would you make that growth? What would it come from? Where would you do that? There's no answer to that. There's no answer to that. And lastly, as far as the EU and Russia are concerned, yes, we are working with the EU and we are on the European path, but we have an extraordinary co-operation with the Russian Federation, according to Dmitri Rogozin, our friend, Russian Deputy Prime Minister, has never been better co-operation with the Russian government with the Serbian government, and if you find me any Serbian leader who has met so many times with President Putin and Prime Minister Medvedev, any one, gather them all since 2000 and before 2000, then show me who had better co-operation with the Russian Federation. We will continue this co-operation, as we will continue our European path in a completely honest and open way, knowing what our strategic goals are, knowing what our historical partners are, and I am convinced that this is the only policy that can bring about a better Serbia, the only policy that is rational and which is only reasonable I only ask that someone show me from all those who have been saying that foreign investors, I haven't heard that from you, that from others, from you I've heard about exploiting workers, so that they're just telling me which is the method by which you're going to ensure an increased rate of growth, if it's not foreign investment? Just to let that genius show me, to show me by one number. Well, you laughed at me when I was talking about cherry tomatoes, and you said, "Wolf, it's stupid." You've been saying things, so I just told you the truth. I just told you the truth and nothing else, but it wasn't worth it, like everything else. As far as our foreign policy is concerned, if you think Serbia can cut off one of its own legs, I think Serbia would have been much harder to follow and much harder to go into the future. And this way, if we avoid problems in the region, if we avoid environmental problems, if we have a bit of luck in global turmoil, not to be as Drecun today spoke on that line where we have always been unfortunate, I am sure and confident that Serbia has a good and economic and political future. Thank you. (Bosko Obradović, from town: To answer. ) (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1274	Wait for my colleague, Zivkovic, on what basis? (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: I am mentioned, misread. The Mandator was just quoting you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: No, no. He can't interpret you if he quotes you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Please, he cannot quote me when he has not heard what I have said.) I really don't know what the problem is? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1275	He made the wrong conclusion out of my words. Thank you very much. So, on July 25th of this year, I submitted a proposal to amend the Government Act, where I ask that Article 11 be changed in its first position – before the government is elected, every proposed member of the Government must provide the National Assembly with medical assurance of the health capacity to establish a working relationship in state bodies. It's a perfectly normal thing and it was applied 15 years ago, without laws, but then the first prime minister after 5 October, after the burning of this assembly as some interpret the 5th of October, was all the candidates were on the table. Is that a problem? No, I don't. Does that mean that then the prime minister and his candidates for the minister were crazy? Of course not. No, it's a good custom. It is a good custom, so people who do less complex jobs than ministers or prime minister or prime minister have to have that confidence, of course it would be good for all those who today and in the future to be candidates for one such function. The fact that the prime minister didn't hear well, that his bad advisors meant no Tony Blair, but some of them from here gave him the wrong information, that's not my problem. That's not my problem. Secondly, by quoting Zoran Djindjic, even in the wrong way, no one will be able to become Zoran Djindjic. When someone constantly boasts that they know everything, that the only one who can change something, there's something wrong, and that's why I propose medical examinations for all members, future members of the government, not just these, but every government that goes behind us.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1276	The word is Alexandra Tomic. Here you go. (The Faith of Radeta, from the city: "What about me?" I'm sorry, you know how many of you have answered. I'll delete the list now. I know, but it was direct communication. Please, Verice, at least you know how to do it. I'm going to delete the list and I'm going to give Vervai my word because she's not on the list right now, because I don't know how many people have come forward either. The word is "Verica Radet." Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1277	Thank you. Unfortunately, because of the poor and non-democratic Rules of Procedure, we are not actually in a position to conduct the dialogue with the prime minister in the right way. The point is, in fact, that the prime minister, everything I said, has been in fact confirmed, except for what I said about "Jura" which he otherwise opposed to some other MPs yesterday. You don't know what exploitation is. Exploitation is if someone works for a minimumer and works overtime and nobody pays for it. It's exploiting, and I think you're aware that it's not right to tell me in your address that there are only three hours of complaining about the salaries. Of course, what you mentioned about our foreign policy, sitting down, as you said, tearing one leg, is not about tearing off legs, but about sitting on two chairs, Mr. Prime Minister and we Serbian radicals insist that we finally define ourselves as the only right, which is the chair that binds us to the Russian Federation. Sure, you mentioned our friend Rogozin. He is also a friend of the SRS and friend of Vojislav Seselj and was visiting us, past all protocols, when he was on an official visit to Serbia during the period when we were a non-parliamentary party. I still have to tell you that you're wrong when you say we can't comment on the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court needs under the Constitution that it is both independent and independent, but unfortunately, the Constitutional Court is to a large extent instrumentalised in the interests of the government and it is not holy cows not to be mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1278	Thank you. The word is Alexandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1279	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Prime Minister, candidates for ministers, the MPs, today we really have an authorial work to say, first of all, that literary work, because someone who wrote the author's work and who has done 250 pages in this systematic way, in the short version of 67, can freely say that it has the characteristics of scientific work. What I am proposing, Mr. Prime Minister, is that your work is really printed, because I think that in the future it will leave a great deal of track for people who deal with the economy and the political economy, precisely because in one systematic and integrated way it is shown that politics can give its results in everyday life and as an example to all those countries that are in that transition, because in Serbia, the transition has been going on for the last 30 years, when you look at it in a political and economic sense, it can give really good results, especially if you have such an approach as you have given. What is important is to say that this scientific work, i.e. this Expose at all, can be called that Serbia is one of the new economic paradigms of the Balkans, but not only of the Western Balkans, but of the Balkans in general, because there are countries that are members of the EU, and they do not have such results as Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and they will not have those results by 2012, or during that transition period. Why am I saying this? Because they say the best country in the transition period when it entered European integration, in negotiations with the EU, was the Czech government, which out of 16 ministers had 15 engineers and only one politician and because of that, because it had members of technical professions in its composition, gave the best results in that realization and the implications of its objectives. However, you have shown in the past two years that, indeed, these changes, which of course everyone else resents, have shown that these changes in society and the acceptance of these changes that exist and the implementation of all those parts relating to both the social change and economic and political changes, but also those that involve changes that surround us, which are changes in the political environment in the Balkans region and the Western Balkans and changes in the EU and the EU relations with Russia and the relations of the US with Russia and the EU, have shown that you are a wise politician and that you are very well in international context. That is why, indeed, it takes all of our future generations to have as one book that will show that history needs to be very well known, relations between ourselves very well known, but it draws very good conclusions so that we can move forward. You've opened up a lot of questions, and these are primarily questions about our weaknesses in society, about our people having certain characteristics that always bring us back and without which we cannot, unless we correct, move forward. Because of this, the system of values set up by 2012 in the commercialization of relations, that money must stand behind it, precisely because some have spent budgets and stolen simply what is not their own, but people's, which is national money, you have shown essentially that it simply has to stop, that the fight against corruption must be unequivocal and that we need a new Anti-Corruption Act precisely because examples like Minister Sasa Radulovic must never be repeated again. Why am I saying that? Because the project Saša Radulović, which has left a regulated state like America, took the money and did not pay the tax, now spends it here and simply for some new projects such as the NGO, such as some projects "Yellow Duck" and when we come to saying, let's see what the man was doing in Serbia, and then we come to some conclusions that as a bankruptcy manager he was a bankruptcy manager of 11 enterprises, and plus a consultant in six bankruptcy proceedings and that the state paid him off in total value of 22,794,560,76 dinars. How did I get that knowledge? So that, as president of the Committee on Business, we have never seen a minister of business come to the Committee of Parliament, sit there when we listen to the Privatisation Agency's report, we have never been able to hear and ask the question of the Minister about how it is as a bankruptcy manager of Vršačka brewery, "MODA" - Debeljače, "Lune Milovanovic", "Dimitrija Tucović", "BK Company", "Delta legal", how his company "E-business Service" as co-owner could do certain accounting services, audit these bankruptcy and ultimately, all to collect from the state through certain costs and monthly incomes. So the question is -- how can someone be a minister, be a bankruptcy manager, and now after all that, to be an MP and deal with justice and to say that there is no state and institution that can sanction it, with the right, because the Anti-Corruption Agency obviously didn't have a law on which she could sanction something like this? And the question of how much money did he manage as the bankruptcy manager of these companies that are abroad? It's foreign exchange inflows and outflows of those assets. What needs to be said for this exposure is the most important thing that you have given focus – education, and simply, economic growth through an economy that will be based on knowledge. Why? Because the principle of dual education is something that we in our society and as children went through secondary education, which was so-called. practice, these were parts of our practical knowledge that we've all been through. Our children and children won't know it unless we really introduce a system like this, unless we produce the number of experts needed by the economy, and that's only possible with this concept that you've given. In the end, I want to say that the change of consciousness, which is inevitable, means whether you insist on it or not, with a concept like this, with this kind of exposure, should create a new system of values in which we want to have young people who are really going to run this country better tomorrow. What I'm trying to say is that when we talk about Confucius, which you often quote, he said that the path to goodness, he means general government, the state, goes beyond wisdom. As a wise politician, you have shown that today is a great honor to support such a government whose head you are on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1280	Thank you. The word is Natas Micic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1281	Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen, certain segments of this long-declared exposé are acceptable to the LDP, because we can't be against some of the things we've advocated ourselves. Of course we can't be against, for example. More efficient, smarter administrations, in particular we cannot be against some economic measures, such as incentives for entrepreneurship, because that is part of LDP policy, four billion grants, female entrepreneurship, public private partnership, etc. The term of office was mostly about economic measures, but what we are different about, and we know that it's an important economy, is that we have different priorities. Our policy priorities are, above all, freedom. For liberals, freedoms, human rights, institutions, the rule of law are always the most important. That's why it's important to us, and it's not mentioned at all in the exposé, for example. promotion, democratic governance of the security sector in the area, as this achieves maximum protection of human rights. Also, we're interested, so anything to do as the prime minister says of the three barracks, for the rule of law, the state must have an answer. Even when we agree on priorities, for example, the European Union as the first point of ten points of exposure, we have different ideas, we view the EU differently. In the first sentence, you mention investment, and that's exactly what foreign policy orientation is, but for us, first of all, this system of values, that level of freedom of human rights, the security of the rule of law. It has been undetected that you plan to increase the budget for the military's weapons to six times in budget rebalancing. Up to six times. Your exposé says you're planning weapons, here's the 14th page, look... (Alexander Vukic, from the site: It is with the trend of growth. )......................................................................................................... for arms investments. So, I don't think that's a priority, but I think we do, even though I'm someone who understands the need of, of course, modernization of the army... I think there's a much bigger problem with infrastructure, and we should think of it as security. Five hundred and one person died on our roads in the previous year for the first ten months. It's people like we're in a little war. That's why it's important that what you promised in 2014, let's say, for Corridor 11, that you end up... That's when you promised to finish that stock by 2016. Now we see it's not, you explained why it's not even done to the Prelina, and for the section to Požega you're saying you're going to try to finish it. You have to finish it because it's one of the top priorities and the best way to show concern for people. Also, due to the infrastructure, Western Serbia has the weakest investment in investment due to bad roads. I don't know, here's the FAP's gone. I don't know what happened to that factory in the Uzics until they got here. In the end, let me say that we don't see this program of yours, as you say, moving the border of opportunity and success. We just see it as a status quo, maybe it is for some conservative forces. We also need a more determined orientation towards the EU in a way that I explained that we are looking at the EU, then changing the Constitution to get a civil, modern state, then better regional co-operation, realising the Brussels Agreement, opening a dialogue on NATO because military neutrality is unsustainable. I've only got more in the area of the economy, which you've paid the most attention to, we are foreign investors, but we think it's a better solution to free investors from a profit tax on, say, five years, because it's the same amount of 10,000 euros we wouldn't spend money on and we wouldn't pay interest. Secondly, I ask the question, on the matter of savings, five and a half million euros was given for non-exploited loans, whose responsibility is that? I don't think five and a half million is a small sum of money.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1282	Thank you. The word is Alexander Vukitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1283	I'll try it for a while. I'm grateful for the correct exposure. The factory in Uzići, it's a hot municipality, thank God it's going well and I think by the end of the year it'll be able to do ammunition 7.62 millimetres. This investment in the dedicated industry is important to you because you are from that region and 80% of the dedicated industry is concentrated in central and western Serbia, from Valjev via Lucan to Sevojn and Uzic and Cačka, of course. It'll be good for people. Let me ask – when was the factory in Požega built before that? When? In what century? We'd have to go back 30, 40, 50 and 60 years. As far as the system of values is concerned, I talked about it and said that the type of society we want to belong to is something that made us decide on our strategic path to the EU. Incentives to entrepreneurship, it would be good if we could reach an agreement with investors to give up the profit tax, but none of them would accept it. Whoever told you that didn't have a conversation with the investors. They're looking for other taxes not to pay. They want a three-year, five-year, or ten-year "text Hollywood", and of course they want you to get money right away so they can finance people's employment from that money. They want to make as much money as possible, they have offers in the region, and as hard as it is for us, uncomfortable or not like it, that's all we can offer so that not all investors go to Macedonia and Bulgaria. That's the way it is. As for the different priorities and another detail about the number of car accidents, car accidents. We've got them slightly less proportional to the number of vehicles. Don't forget that every year we have an increasing number of vehicles. As we build that infrastructure, we have more and more vehicles. We already have two and a half million more vehicles this year. On two and a half million vehicles, you have to have more accidents. It's happening everywhere in the world, except we have to see what else we can do, what else we can do to strengthen discipline and increase, because in 80% of our cases, we have a fast drive and an alcoholic state. Everything else is minor cases and some other objective circumstances. Anything we can do about it we will do, but it is a question not only for the Ministry, but also for agencies, sublegal acts. I don't think we can do this in general, I'm not even sure there was room to talk about it too much in the exposé. As for the incentives of entrepreneurship, those who cannot answer me, I want to tell them – without foreign investment, we would disappear as a country. Not only would we not succeed, we would disappear as a country, and that is said by people who know absolutely nothing. That's what people who have never done serious business in the country say, they don't know anything about it, but they don't know anything about it. Those stories are so empty, those stories are so pointless. I don't know who I've offended if I say a story is pointless, because I've seen it's an insult, too, but what's absolutely certain is that people in Serbia need to know that. Someone's making resistance to foreign investors. Great, Serbs, take it, run it all down, run out of anything like we did when some came behind 2000 and ran all the factories, put them in our pockets, and we ran out of anything. Now we need to open up what's been closed, and then we need to open up something new. It happened in the 1990s, but in a different way. It's something we have to change about ourselves. We need to change our own system of values, but I'm afraid with all your help and all our correctness and my understanding of you and vice versa, and from what I've seen in the last three days, it's gonna be hard and slightly Sisif's work for our government. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1284	The word has Ivana Stojiljković, let Slavisa Ristic prepare. (Nataša Micic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1285	Thank you. To avoid getting the wrong impression, LDP is for foreign investors. That's what we stand for, because you've been answering me like you understand that we're against it. No, we're very in. As far as the pleasure water is concerned, it's okay for the water factory, but indeed, you have to admit that in the 21st century we had a problem and because of the failure of "Serbia" and the Environment Protection Agency, water pollution, aero pollution, we don't even have roads, these are really huge problems. Let me just add more, and it's very important to me, for education, not to share your enthusiasm for introducing dual education. I think it is much more important, I ask you to work on it, to introduce it as a mandatory subject of information and computerism, which the National Educational Council has rejected as the proposal of the previous Minister Verbic. It's a way to get a more qualified workforce. Other countries have been introducing this as a mandatory subject since the first grade of primary school, and this is a way of being more qualified, so that in the future this workforce is not as cheap as it is in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1286	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1287	So, just two information. I understood you well, and I didn't criticize you at all. You see, around dual education no one shares my enthusiasm, I have nothing against it. One day people will remember how someone was saying, as American governors are coming to Switzerland today to learn about it. It's the only thing that makes sense. It's the only thing that brings results. As far as IT's concerned, the National Educational Council was right, I'll tell you why. Because someone writes in the information paper to be introduced since September, and it is understandable that Minister Verbic wants it. The National Educational Council says that – well, the National Educational Council is right. Do you know what it takes to do to have information? First we have to have trained professors, second we have to see what to do with the extra employees. The third you have direct resistance from all other professors and teaching staff. You have countless problems, it takes you a year, two or three to do it, not 45 days. Whoever thinks it's easy, it's not in ten times as rich as ours. It's impossible and they answered in a responsible way. But the second thing is that in Serbia you can't answer it responsibly, people think there's something to be done in a day, something to change. Look, you saw yesterday that I was saying the opposite, today in the paper they wrote, "We pay not to sing to a gay wolf." Well, I was just saying the opposite sing it, but it's not worth it. You know, it's Serbia, it's simple, you're all capable of twisting, whoever says something, whoever does something. I liked what you said - you have to finish it until Požega. I know. We must also end from Nis through Proseko, Chiflik, Stanication to Piroth and Dimitrovgrad and Gradina. I know, we have to Grabovnica, we're done, so we have to go Grub-Han, and down the Levosoje-Serbian house, we have to finish all of this. We have to finish up to Chačka, which means Surcin-Obrenovac, Obrenovac-Ub, Ub-Lajkovac, Lykovac-Lig, Ljig-Preljina, and we have to finish it, and how is it that Natasha doesn't have to finish anything before that? I accept, you're otherwise right, and you need it and you know it, and the Grills know it, you're absolutely right about one thing. Less investment in Užica is precisely because of the road. Less tourists are on well-filled Zlatibor and on Tara precisely because of the trip, especially on Tara. It's less because it's a quiet anger to pass from the Chačka roof of the Ovcar-Cablar ravine to Užica. Come on, when you get to Uzica and Gorjana, it's easier than that before. And that's what we have to do and that's what we're up to. Let me promise you that we will do and that we will finish everything and when we get there, we will make it very easy for Belgrade-Cacchak, but our key share is right on the way to Bolar, just the Chacak-Požega. From Požega to Užica is no problem, it is neither a problem over the white country, to Zlatibor, nor here to turn for Tara and the garden, etc., but this is what is possible, which is real. To promise that we'll finish everything, I'm just not capable, thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1288	The word has a folk MP Ivana Stojiljković.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1289	I thank the president. Dear Prime Minister, candidates for ministers, ladies and gentlemen MPs, before I start talking about the exposé itself and everything that my impression of talking about him is, I'd just have to say a few words as someone who comes from western Serbia. We do have a lot of problems, but this government has done its best to solve them as quickly as possible. In 2013, we inherited a water problem. We didn't charge much, we didn't resist the finger, we quickly solved the problem, we invested a million euros, and then we solved the water supply problem, temporarily. And now the water factory's getting rid of it. The highway is going to be built, and we hope that there is a possibility in the future as well. Then it will work to strengthen the dedicated industry. All of this is what it means to the Uzzicians and to all those who live in western Serbia. We're grateful for that. We know we need more, but that's what's maximum of this government right now, and we really need to thank you for that. After this debate, it is really clear to me that this large and very detailed exposé was the most disturbing to those who, perhaps two, three months ago, were able to write two three lists of programmes and plans of their own party so that they would go ahead of the citizens in Serbia's elections. It would probably be an easier way to cross the census than they've been dealing with lies, plantings, so they can sit down or maybe say they're running from these benches. So, in any case, they should not be surprised that they already have a rash and membership and that their own MP group is also being rashed. Of course, I wouldn't be too long on that, but that's probably why their criticisms are like this. I'd also like one remark, to draw attention. That was yesterday, that there was no clear policy in this exposé of course we couldn't agree on. Clear policy does not represent a mere positioning between two great forces, because forces will not deal with our country the way we want them to. Politics is exactly what this government did, which was done by this government, which is that in a responsible and successful way it runs this country, and that it gets support for both the East and the West. As far as the exposé itself is concerned, it is an indication that this government has been working and has been on a good path and that it continues now more intensively and faster. We are like MPs who have been very competent to talk about the subject in the previous session because we have very often compared these exposures with the laws that are being passed and we can say that it is mostly implemented as planned. The only thing that the current prime minister was unable to predict was those Mayan floods that hit us on an accident, just a few days after the government formed and unfortunately, this severe migrant crisis. I mention them precisely because the previous government has dealt very well with these problems, and not only do they deserve praise on our part, but they have received it from all of the world's relevant institutions and it is really very important to mention it, because such problems are even more difficult to deal with by some much more developed economic countries and EU members. The previous government has provided a surplus in the budget after fiscal consolidation, after savings and rationalisation, has provided a stable dinar and will further allow pensions to grow, increase on a healthy, realistic basis and increase the minimum labour price. Although a stable macroeconomic situation is a prerequisite for one country to bring serious investors or to employ domestic investors, I would certainly point out a very important thing, which is what will continue this government in the new mandate, strengthening Serbia's ties with both the region and the world, both in economic and political terms and in infrastructure terms. As long as we're in infrastructure, I'd like to say that we've inherited catastrophic conditions here, but I wouldn't look too much at it right now, but it's important to mention that certain projects have started, that they're agreed, are not realised, and that's why Serbia is paying out of the penalty budget today. This government built hundreds of miles of highways in two years, about 230 tunnels, bridges, and started rebuilding the railways, and what's very important is that our air traffic has now reached world standards, that we are the only ones in the region who have a direct flight to New York. I should also mention that 40-50% increase in the issue of building permits, that today legalization is much shorter and 500 times lower than it has ever been. I'm talking about all of this, very briefly. There would be, of course, much more to say, because thanks to these results, the laws and work of the government, Serbia has progressed 32 places on the world's "Duing Business List" and that is probably what will provide us with new investments and job creations for the future. There weren't any new jobs in the previous government, it's 124,000. That's the basic human right, if we're already talking about human rights, that's being realized by bringing in investors. Serbia needs stability. Stability in every sense. I'm personally very sorry when someone with disrespect for that subject or with a mockery gets worse. I have a feeling it's only people who aren't aware of all the casualties that have hit our premises, and maybe they're not aware of the current situation we're in. I have not been so fortunate, I belong to a generation that in just a decade has felt the consequences of three wars on its skin, and therefore I greatly appreciate and respect all that this government has done and will do in the coming period to preserve peace and stability in our country. It should be noted that by now about 700,000 migrants have passed through our country, without any consequences, they are very satisfied, they have received all the basic conditions and there has been no collapse of the security of Serbian citizens. The crime rate is down 15%. Very important laws have been passed. I would especially highlight three important laws, which are Tamarin, Tianin and Mary's Law, specific laws that we have passed because of the difficult fates and accidents of our youngest citizens, with a desire never to repeat this to anyone again. I am glad that it is also about the adoption of laws on the prevention of domestic violence and, of course, this government will have great support for this Parliament, I believe the whole, and all citizens in the announced serious reforms of the education system. Because we believe that only a strong education system can give society a future. We want to build a society of equal opportunities, a society that values and recognizes the quality of each individual, regardless of their identity, sexual orientation, or any other characteristic. We want a country that will be, as written in the exposé, a leader in the region that will have a modern 21st century infrastructure, a country that will invest in its people, in youth, in education. That is why great support to the future government in the new mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1290	Slavisa Ristic. I apologize to Miroslav Lazanski. I didn't mean to interrupt my colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1291	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, here I am taking my word here in this House for the first time, and I am pleased, because my grandfather, Radoslav Todorova Zivkovic, was in this assembly of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia in 1935 as a member of the Yugoslav Radical Community. I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a member of the 107th consciously told falsely, that's a lie. In fact, one of the previous speakers said that military neutrality is impossible. We know that today, members of the European Union are Austria, Finland and Sweden's military neutral countries, military neutrality is Ireland, military neutrality is also Switzerland. So military neutrality is possible and this is what this government has shown, that is, the previous and hopefully the future. It's actually one of, let's say, the reference moments of our geostrategic position. It is something Serbia should use well and it is the only possible foreign-political orientation. I am surprised that the previous speaker did not get acquainted with the factography of military neutrality, so also with legal aspects and military aspects of Serbia's exact position. I was just trying to react. So I'm going to be a very careful listener to all my fellow MPs when it comes to military issues, and I hope that there won't be a situation for people to perform without arguments and so on. Because when it comes to military neutrality, we are witnesses that even many Western politicians and very highly ranked Western officials tell our government – continue as you have so far. No one's forcing you to define yourself between the east and the west. We are aware of your good relations with the Russian Federation...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1292	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1293	... . We are aware that you are going to the EU and that is not a problem for us. They tell us in public. I'm really surprised why some of our politicians...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1294	Thank you, MP. Time's up. The word is Slavisa Ristic, and let Mirko Krlic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1295	Dear Members of Parliament, the President-in-Office, I will try to refer to that part of the mandater's programme for the composition of the new KIM government for the remainder of our parliamentary group, our autonomous province. At first sight, an attempt to create a picture is visible that the future government will dedicate an important place to KiM, given that KIM is spoken of in the first of ten points, more precisely point 10 of point 4 of point 1. actually, point 4. However, from the first reading of this two-page text, there is a tendency that the government will actually treat KIM as in the previous period, as with its diaspora and not as the Constitution, as with its inalienable part of the Republic of Serbia. I'll tell you why I think so. Of course, the text says that the government will continue to invest in infrastructure projects, support education, culture, social protection, health care, and it is not controversial, it is happening and we acknowledge that it is done. What is really controversial is the fact that the proposed text of the exposé can see the intention of the future government to continue the process of institutional withdrawal of the state of Serbia from the KIM area. Dear People's MPs, no community of Serb municipalities, especially one defined by the Brussels Agreement since April 2013 cannot replace the state of Serbia with KIM and cannot replace the state institutions in the KIM area. The mandate said something about it, probably part of our MPs, that we are actually reading poorly and that we do not know about the fact that the Brussels Agreement, that the first six points of the Brussels Agreement refer to the Community of Serb municipalities. That is true, but just in those first six points of the Brussels Agreement, it says that if this future community is to be formed at all, according to the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Kosovo, unfortunately it will have virtually no authority, except for some kind of supervision in education and health and economic development, and I think even consciously concealing the other points of the Brussels Agreement, there are nine more, especially a few. In light of the short time, I will also mention item 7 concerning the conclusion of the Brussels Agreement that there will be only one police force in Kosovo and that it will be Kosovo, Pristina police and that it is necessary for all the police from the north of Kosovo to be integrated into the Kosovo police, which is unfortunately finished now. It also applies to the judiciary, so we've come to a situation where our judges are integrated...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1296	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1297	... I only ask for a few seconds to finish thinking that we should integrate our judges into the Kosovo judiciary. Also, the point concerning the Kosovo elections, so we had...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1298	Thank you. You've been over a lot of time now.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1299	... that this government is forcing us practically by force to go to another country's elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1300	Thank you, MP. I really can't allow you any more, regardless of the importance of the subject. The word has a mandater.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1301	You saw the speaker mentioned, the speaker said -- it's true that the government is building there, it's true that the government is working there, but it doesn't matter much. It doesn't matter if the government builds and works infrastructure projects there, etc. Well, it builds and works by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, does not build and does not operate by any other government. As far as I know, you're getting paid by that same government where you live, and you're not getting from someone else. You're not receiving it from any other system. It's the best proof that Serbian institutions are functioning. And continue to receive regular salary, it will be as regular as it has been until now, and hopefully increased in the future. Then commend all Serbian institutions. As far as the Brussels Agreement is concerned, there's only one thing you've skipped to say, that it should have been, that I around the police, what you've read, I think it's a great achievement for us, I think from Article 9 or Article 10. The Brussels Agreement, which we fought a great battle, primarily for the north of KiM, where members, or members of the police, will be in line with the ethnic composition of the population. Then you should know, so that people know how it works, the EU and Albanians, they insisted, especially Europeans, that what was in our system as the Kosovo-Mitrovaki County which included seven municipalities be accepted. That's what you should have added to the Serbian, Vučitrn and South Mitrovica. If we had accepted that something like this would have happened, we would have about 30% of the police, and 70% of the police would have Albanians in these four Serb municipalities. That was the night they told me not to tell you everything there. Even my advisors told me they were leaving me, because they knew I was done, and so on. After the different threats we faced, which Mr. Dacic also attended. I refused, and I said I would not go back to Brussels until we got guarantees that only the ethnic composition of the Kosovo police would count for four northern Kosovo municipalities in line with those four northern Kosovo municipalities, where by the way 99% of Serbs. So today, in the Kosovo police, you have 99% of Serbs in these four northern Kosovo municipalities. So it's not that bad. By the way, as far as the legal framework is concerned, I agree with you, we just can't get a better legal framework. We can't win after Resolution 1244 and after everything we've had as a problem. We just can't win. If you can fight us for a more favourable legal framework, and those negotiations have started you in Vienna, and not me, and also that we, someone has to start negotiations and someone has to start talking because we need peace with Albanians, no matter how unpopular it sounds in Serbia. If you can provide us with a better legal framework, a great reputation or anything else, welcome, help. Believe me, I haven't seen it yet. I've only seen everyone accept everything they say and which is much worse, and I haven't seen anyone offer to gain from any world power or anything that would be more favourable to Serbs. I repeat, I know the Falinka of the Brussels Agreement, I spoke of them much more than any of you and more argumentative than any of you, and when I address you in Kosovo Mitrovica. And today you can see that I was more right than you with different hidden fears, which makes sense that you have them, especially people who live in Ibarsko Kolasino, where you live, like the rest of our people from Leposavic, Zvecana, Mitrovica, but also those south of the Ibra River. Remember, we still have more people living south of the Ibar River today. They need a community of Serb municipalities. It is necessary for Serbs both in Pasian and in Partesh, in Ranilug, in Šilov, in Donjo Budriga, in Strpc, in Prilužje, in Plemetina, of course, in Bresje, Kosovo Polj, Caglavica, Lippjan and Donjo and Gornji Gusterica, Novi Brdo and every other Serbian place, as well as in Babina Most, which I have skipped by saying about the Novetina and Prilužje. So, as you can see, unlike some others, there is no village in Kosovo and Metohija that I don't know, and in almost every one I've been several times. I've been bringing in some, bringing in help, opening hospitals in some, opening schools in some, and I'm just planning on doing it. A community of Serb municipalities would help us. If we don't form it, we'll be doing it the same way we've done it. I think we've managed to keep a lot of things well. I think you know that, too, but I understand that kind of policy that never, ever, Slavisha, will get most of it, will be able to do anything in Kosovo and Metohija. This was the smartest and best policy for Serbs. That's how we managed to keep them in Kosovo and Metohija. Everything else would mean banishment through Jarinj and abandoning our centuries-old hearths. We have managed to make this work so that we do not lose our people in Kosovo and Metohija, and I am particularly happy and proud that our birth rate, especially south of Ibra, is the largest in the territory, I am talking about Serbian life, I am not talking about Albanian life, the largest in the territory of the entire Republic. Thank you very much. [[Slavisa Ristić, from the place: Short replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1302	But there was no offense, there was an answer. (Slavisa Ristić, from the place: He spoke to me from Slaviša. ( b) The Rules of Procedure speak only of the possibility of being mentioned by someone pessimistic. (Glory Ristic, from the place: He didn't understand me.) He understood you, of course, we all understood you. The word is Mirko Krlić, then Miladin Ševarlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1303	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Prime Minister, gentlemen of the future ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm afraid my discussion will look like a directed one, because the very theme that's being started right now is a segment from a large-scale exposé that I want to keep talking about. I am sorry that the former mayor, President of Zubin Potok municipality, spoke in this way about the functioning of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija. I'm sorry, because I don't think I'm that bad of a man doing his job. However, there are others, those who have committed to the government with him, who have had those ministers in charge of Kosovo and Metohija twice crossed the Ibar, by their own recognition, who did not go beyond Leška, and today talk about Kosovo and Metohija. On Kosovo and Metohija, the first sentence, the best and best term I have ever heard, the prime minister said. He said -- for this government, Kosovo and Metohija is a major challenge. There's no better time. The challenge is hope, optimism, the challenge is the future, the challenge is inspiration. It's good news for all citizens in Kosovo and Metohija, if the government will behave as they will. It's the best news for citizens of Serbian nationality. In addition, what about the government and the policy and the previous government thinks Kosovo's people are best said in the elections and these results talk about everything. I have to draw attention that the government in the past composition, the vast majority here today, won after 16 years of the first very important diplomatic victory related to Kosovo and Metohija. This is preventing Pristina, preventing so-called The republic of Kosovo to enter the institution of the World Protection of UNESCO. As important as it is, I'd like to take this time and explain it, because the Prime Minister himself knows the battle has been won, but no war has been won. As of next year, the same problem will hit the government, and not only will the European Integration or Security Sector happen, but almost all ministries will. There is no action where there is no stairs of Kosovo and Metohija, and in sport, and in social policy and work, and in economy, health, education and, of course, culture. Right in the field of culture that victory was won at the last minute, but it seems that we are the kind of people that works best when under pressure. I hope it doesn't happen again, but I certainly congratulate you on that significant victory. Why is it important for Kosovo, under these conditions, to not enter UNESCO today for Serbian cultural heritage? Because we have to first look at what UNESCO is. UNESCO is a roof organization for the protection of cultural monuments around the world, protecting the entire civilization. But UNESCO operates through states that are also members of their state institutions of protection, restoration and all other needs to maintain one monument. Today on the monuments of UNESCO in Kosovo and Metohija, and I will remind you that these monuments are High Decani, Bogorodica Ljeviška, Gracanica and Pećko Patriarchija, as you can see, everything in Kosovo is a monument of the first category belongs to the Serbian Orthodox Church and belongs to the Serbian cultural heritage. Then what makes Pristina so interested in being in this organization? Where did you get such a big wish? Where, suddenly, from Pristina University of the Academy of Painting, did one number of students study in Athens Byzantine-Fresco painting at the expense of the Government of the Republic of Kosovo? Are they not going to paint and build new Orthodox churches in Kosovo? No, I don't. It is about taking care of Serbian cultural heritage. You know, a huge cultural heritage was built in Germany, the Germans were a people of great culture, but several castles and one cathedral remained in Poland, when, of course, after World War II, a new frontier was made. Today, even on UNESCO's pages, you won't find it built by the German Counts. You won't find any sign of German culture, it's definitely the sacral construction of Poland, so even great Germany can't fix it. You have better examples from our environment. I was in Trogir a while ago. The whole old town of Trogir is protected and belongs to the monument of the first category. Trogir was built by Italians and in one part there was Greece, so it remained Greece. He doesn't write anywhere anymore, and there's nowhere else that it's Italian cultural heritage. On the cathedral itself, the cathedral walls later saw the relief of King Tomislav, which is also a suspicious category for Croatian historians, but today it is a Croatian cultural heritage. The best example of UNESCO protecting the cultural heritage of others shows the Sibenik Cathedral. It is remarkable in the baroque-renaissance style, and in front of that cathedral is the monument of Juraj Dalmatinca, who is the alleged builder of the cathedral. No Juraj Dalmatinac built this cathedral, no Juraj Dalmatian had anything to do with the construction, it was built by Italian builders, but today there is no mass in Italian in the cathedral. It's the fate of cultural monuments, the moment their care takes over Pristina. It is therefore very important that tomorrow, when the government is formed, it is working to provide Serbian cultural heritage. I am not a great optimist, and I do not think it will be easy to stop the Republic of Kosovo from entering these institutions. We see all the institutions coming in with their powerful medals, but there's a model, exteriority, there's a model, that's what Ahtisaari's plan was offering. As soon as we in Brussels have to start these talks, start this topic and, of course, try to protect the Serbian cultural heritage. The one under international agreements must be called – Serbian cultural heritage and ownership of the Serbian Orthodox Church. That's the only thing that guarantees survival. You know, in Kosovo and Metohija... Will you calm down a little gentleman? You fought for UNESCO, you should listen. You know, there are churches in Kosovo and Metohija, and that's what the prime minister was talking about, there are monasteries that have survived without environment, some monks are having a hard time living there, but they keep 800 years of Serbian liturgy in Kosovo. But there is nowhere, in all these places that are specifically mentioned, there is no such thing as a people without a church. We have churches without people, and we don't have people without churches. The Albanian side understood that. Kosovo's entry into UNESCO is the last pogrom and the last move of Serbs, in one, of course, different now, to say a more civilized way. Who will prevent the Pristina police from delivering Father Sava and his monks from the Decan and sending from the other side of Ibra or the sisterhood from the Cave Patriarchy? Oh, no one. Today at the head of the Albanian Orthodox Church, Archbishop Anastasia, he is an extremely large friend of the Serbian Orthodox Church and of our patriarch. But he's an 80-year-old man. The next archbishop can easily inhabit Orthodox Albanians from the east of Albania and, of course, no more Serbian liturgy, no more Serbian singing, no more Serbian history in these monasteries, no more Serbs in the environment, our sanctities, no more Serbs in Metohija and Pomoravlje. That's the ultimate goal. I ask you to stop this in time, not to wait for us to fight UNESCO again and to look for allies by a number of countries, but to advance international contracts that will guarantee the survival of the Serbian Orthodox Church in Kosovo and Metohija because there it is long ago not only a prayer institution, it is the institution of the state, through it everything that really works in Kosovo for the benefit of the Serb people. In the end, Mr. Prime Minister, another request from me. Please, when you mention Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, whom you care so much about and thank you for that, I am emotionally very much connected to Kosovo and Metohija, please mention that small cluster of mountainous people. This people are extremely faithful to Serbia. They celebrate today's Gjurjevdan honorably. They're Islamic religions, but they know their origins. They send their children exclusively to schools that they learn in Serbian and Serbian teaching programmes. It also shows the time of the recruiting that they responded to Serbia's call and that is another proof of how loyal they are. Today, they suffer huge pressures from Albanianization, makedonisation and Bosniakism, but they still stand proudly and live in extremely difficult conditions with poor infrastructure, with no economic potential whatsoever, but they remain faithful to this country and deserve all our attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1304	Miladin Ševarlic has a word, and let Milija Miletic be prepared. Here you go. (Slavisa Ristić, from the place: Replica. I was directly mentioned. You're not mentioned. (Slavisa Ristic, from the post: Let me speak for two minutes in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia about Kosovo and Metohija. I can't let you do that, so Kosovo isn't just yours. Kosovo is ours, so all 250 MPs would now report on Kosovo and Metohija. It's our thing in common. Don't privatize some things. (Slavisa Ristić, from the place: Give me two minutes or I will appeal to the Rules of Procedure. Well, it's not a neck, it's a neck. (Slavisa Ristic, from the post: So you do not allow two minutes of talks on Kosovo and Metohija. This is very ugly what you just said. This is so ugly, it's just like what's tweeted, so, really. To honor us not to let Kosovo and Metohija be spoken of. Well, it's not just your thing. It's a Serbian thing. It's a matter of the Republic of Serbia. We want all 250 of us to talk about Kosovo and Metohija? I really don't have any words. I have no words for the lowness you can... (Bosko Obradovic, from the post: You don't give a man living in Kosovo two minutes to say. That's because I don't talk to someone who's willing to blackmail people. (Bosko Obradovic, from the place: You don't give two minutes to say... Shame on you, MP. (Alexander Wolfie, from the scene: "Don't threaten." ) (Bosko Obradović, from the city: I am not threatening. I'm not afraid. I'm not afraid. I'll hold on, you know why? It's only because of the prime minister who's here, because maybe one of the MPs wants to spoil something and throw away all this three-day work and everything we've done today that we've discussed and talked about. Those who had the intention to speak seriously, only that's why I won't make any warnings because then it's completely lost all meaning. I have a nice question, no yelling, no violence here, no nothing. Does Ambassador Miladin Ševarlic want to speak or not? If he doesn't want to, please let the other MPs speak. You want it or you don't want it? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1305	Thank you. I welcome all MPs, prime ministers and proposed ministers and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are monitoring this transfer in direct or delayed view. As non-partisan MPs banned on the Dveri-DSS coalition list, I would like to call on two positions in the conclusion of the prime minister's exposé, the first is to pay attention to what we say is not only unilaterally but bilaterally, and the second is, you and I are partners in this big project called the future of Serbian citizens. I think they're good attitudes and that according to that, as a non-partisan MP, I want to point out the following. Firstly, I am opposed to the choice of this government with 20 members because I think that in this economic prosperity, given all restrictions on wages, pensions and especially on farmers, we have three ministers without portfolios, and especially because we do not have a proposal from the prime minister for the protection of the environment, which is the most demanding sector after agriculture or together for agriculture in the European integration process. Secondly, as we already have ministers of education, science and technological development from the private sector, and now the chairman of the Assembly Committee from the private sector. I think we should respect the importance of Novosadski, Belgrade, Kragujevci, Nisko State University. Third, we're choosing the 15th Minister of Agriculture today, if I'm not mistaken, or whoever's been doing this duty since the political change in 2000. In the term of office when Mr. Vukic is the first vice president and president, this is the second time that a candidate who is not from the agricultural profession, science, manager with experience in agricultural enterprises, etc. If Mr. Vukic had proposed Mr. Nedimovic as Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, I would have given him my warm support, as I would have supported some of the proposed individual ministers whose names I will not particularly point out. These are the reasons why as a non-partisan MP I will not vote for this composition of the government. Second, given this, pay attention... .
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1306	Thank you, MP. You've wasted your time with your MPs. You've wasted your time. Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. You gave up. Thank you. Radoslav Milojic. Next Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1307	My fellow Members and fellow MPs, candidates and candidates for ministers, I am sorry that the mandater spent a lot of time on a team paid by the municipality to blood donors or some other association, as I am sorry that time was spent on making or not making a trip to Triestenik. Your Honor, this is the third government that the SNS and you form. You say, quote - I don't work for money, I work for 20 years to say this is what Alexander Vukitch did. That's your statement. No, in 20 years, in 200 years, the failures of the third government you form will be recorded, and we can discuss those successes that you and your team are proud of. Is it a situation in the economy where FAP was shut down after 63 years of existence? Is this a state of justice, because in our country, if you are not informed, it happens that the municipal police indirectly kill a watermelon salesman who makes good money for himself and his family. Is that a state of justice too, where no one is responsible for the deaths of seven people in a helicopter accident? Are you proud of the situation in agriculture where the price of the grain of 13 dinars, and at the time of the poor of the DS, as you say, the price of grain was 25 dinars. The situation in agriculture where the subsidies are 4,000, and at the time of the DS, as you say, the bad ones, the subsidies were 12,000 dinars. Your Honor, Mr. President. As far as the economy is concerned, we are in charge of three SNS 10 billion governments. Go a little further away from the cabinet, from the Assembly, and you will see that no Serbian citizen who is not a member of the SNS has enough money in his wallet, there is not enough fuel in the tank and there is not enough food in the refrigerator. About how successful the president of the municipality is, of course, they're telling us that we're so-called. The failures had only tripping and problems from the government of the Republic of Serbia, and last year the town of Kragujevac received 185m dinars. There is a situation in which the son of the President of the Republic is in power. That under the circumstances Nis had won 80 million dinars in one day. That by the circumstances Leskovac received 60 million dinars and then another 40 million dinars on December 12th. It's not a treatment that's equal to all the presidents of the municipalities. After all, your president of the municipality of Dragan Vukanic, who was the State Secretary, or I don't know if he's still at the Ministry of Health, has charged his arrival at the Smederjevska Palanca hospital for an arrival. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1308	The word has a mandater. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1309	If I may have your attention, please. Of course, it is not easy to answer that you have people in the country who still think that the government determines the price of grain, they lost twenty years of their lives, so they forgot that it has nothing to do with the government for so long. It's hard to answer someone who tells you that you're responsible for FAP, and they left us iron and trouble, and that we're solving the troubles with workers and all the factories in Serbia. And what dear friends would you say to someone who says 133 Heinicken, 165 Tuborg and 65 Lion Beers gave blood donors. So the blood donors drank 165 Tuborg, 133 Heinnicken and 65 Lion Beers, and that was paid by municipal money. If you don't believe me, I've got a bill here and you'll always notice all the donors and all the different teams, presentations, whatever you want, end up in the same bar. It's always the same bar, by accident. But I'm interested, but how do they drink 35 coffees? And that someone won't pay it out of their pocket, it's going to the community account, too. But to put it aside, you got money from the state of Serbia. You got six million, if I remember correctly, six or seven million if I remember correctly. On the other hand, they get everyone else just because it's a catastrophic situation in cities and municipalities. All those who seek and strive to literally give everyone both proportionally to needs and proportional to sizes. The Kragujevac won't get away much longer because of inherited problems, long, long. It's not easy. There are cities I don't know a solution for, like Smederjevska Palanka, like Koserić and some others, but Koserić and Smederjevska Palanka are certainly in the most difficult condition. To be honest, I find you infinitely likable. I could never see anyone paying blood donors 300 bottles of beer. So, I've heard about everything, usually blood donors after that take some, tomato juice or get some juice somewhere, just you, or there's some specific blood type that covers it with beer. I don't have anything, and I really think you have both political spirit and political talent, but it has nothing to do with the situation in the community. Is the municipality in debt 2.5 billion or four? We'll know within seven days exactly. One, our warrants show it's four billion. But it's my fault. It's 2.5 billion, it's disastrous, until yesterday you were the president of that municipality, and before that, nobody I've ever set up before but you. So whether it's four billion or not, or it's 2.5 billion, I'm just asking you, and where the Smederevska Palanka is going to get it back from. When and how? And what kind of genius does it take to get it back? I ask people how Koseric will pay back five million euros, because the genius is in charge, the one who salts our brains in that tabloid today, every week, something salts our brains, I don't know what everything, Vujadinovic, such a thing, Vukadinovic, so some of them, doesn't matter, and he's every time salting our minds, destroyed the future of the citizens of Koseric, destroyed the future of the citizens of Koseric. And I ask you, how are we going to solve it? No problem, I'm the world's worst, the dumbest, the economy's no good, your economy is extraordinary, great, we've seen where you've brought us. Of course, people have a hard time living, and I know exactly how hard people are to live. And now I'm asking you -- how are people in the Smederjevska Palanca going to live with debt like this? What are they gonna do with those debts? What are they going to live on? In what way? Or you'll open a beer factory to blood donors and they'll all come to give blood only in Palanco. I don't know what else to ask you. (Radoslav Milojičić, from place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1310	Answer the question.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1311	Of course. Your Honorary, at the first time I was in office with my coalition partner, the president of the municipality, no local self-government credit was taken and I said last time for the truth, it's not for you, because I see you repeating it as a mantra, and I don't mind, it's politics. That on the first day I set up as president of the municipality, I gave all the councils total debts of the municipality that were 2.5 billion, 2.5 billion, and already the water line was in debt for electricity... (Alexander Vukic, from the scene: You didn't take the loan, congratulations.) Not a single loan. I'm the only one who can finish it. We didn't take any credit. We've been out of power for six months, your chief of staff knows that, I've sent you countless memos, to all ministers, regardless of political belongings. I told the people of Palanca, when they asked me, why am I attacking you? I'll kiss your hand. Give something to the Smederian Palanca to help us. There was no response. You are not the prime minister only to the presidents of the municipality who are from the SNS and that is why I said that Mr. Veroljub Stevanovic, who certainly was one of the best mayors in the history of Kragujevac, had disputes and that you gave your mayor 185 million dinars. For six months, the citizens of Smederjevska Palanka were without electricity, and in Smederjevska Palanca, come visit us there is a factory called Gosa, which in happy times had 15 thousand, 15 thousand workers. Now this factory unfortunately has only 3,000 workers and halls standing empty. We also have dual education, because within the school and factory, students go to school, and one part of their time they spend at the factory, so they come out as already professional staffs. All it takes is an investor, which your president of the SNS municipality didn't even want to admit to the municipality ten days ago, so problems have been created in the Smederjevska Palanca for decades. Power debts have been since 1996. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1312	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1313	So, there's only one thing that is, I'm always happy to hear that someone didn't take credit and you see, it's never hard for me to talk about it, especially that local self-government can't find enough income to get it back. What is a serious problem in everything you've been saying except what I've been talking about, of course, is money that hasn't been handed over and has not been returned to the Serbian Army. As far as the investor is concerned, this particular investor came ten days ago when you were out of power, and over the past how many years while you were in power, the investor didn't show up. Does that tell you anything? On the other hand, I felt like I didn't believe what I was hearing, that I literally didn't believe what I was listening to. You're telling us about Gosa, so people stopped working for you, because of your government, because of your governments. You destroyed the Gossu, not someone today, that destroyed it either yesterday or the day before. Gosa has been destroyed for a decade by you and all other companies and companies in our country. And now you say turkey -- dots don't apply, we destroyed you, let's get back to what we destroyed, then there were 15,000 people, we destroyed it in the meantime, and now because there are 3,000 people, come on, Wolfie, solve that problem for us. Wait, what is this? ‘Twright Zone’? Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde? What's this? Same story all day. What's this about? I don't mean you personally, at all, I'm talking about the story, I'm sorry, I'm glad when I heard this, I'm happy, you just didn't tell me if you got that money or not, because I'm saying it is. I say it is. I don't have a problem, I never run away from dialogue, just tell me did you get that money or didn't you? Because I am the Prime Minister of all the mayors and all the presidents of the municipalities. I brought "Jasaki" to Sabac. I brought investors to Svilajnac where people from another political party were and I will never make a difference because of political parties belonging between our municipalities and our cities. I love it when the Progressives are and I love it when everyone else is successful. I will fight for every municipality in every way.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1314	You want to answer that question? (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: Yes. ) Very briefly, I ask that the word be given to Alexander Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1315	Six million dinars were won, and like you... (Alexander Vukic, from the scene: like I said.) Can I finish? As you have been deceived about these accounts that are really funny the day the government is elected, the money has been received because the Smederevska Palanka municipality has been in co-operation with the Municipality of the Great Plan since 2008 accessing the water factory project, because we and the Great Plan have had water shortages for 30 years. There's a part that pays for local self-government. There is a part, which Mr. Nedimovic will do when he becomes minister to see, which is obliged to pay for "Serbian Water" or the Ministry of Agriculture, I'm not sure and that's why we got that money because it was part of the ministry. We didn't have any money at the time, so the Big Plan Municipality paid us their share, so we gave it back. It is true, but the money for the construction of a 11.5m-euro water factory that was signed in 2008 and the contract was realised and we expect the factory to open, that Smederjevska Palanka finally has a good supply of water after 30 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1316	Thank you. So it's undeniable, the money's won. The word is Alexander Stevanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1317	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished citizens of Serbia, firstly I would like to thank the current majority in the Assembly for their specific understanding of democracy and tolerance. All of today's indicators tell us that you've done a good job for us and we don't mind keeping it that way. Everyone would agree with one fact, which is that knowledge is the greatest resource in one society, so we deeply support the definition of exposure, to build branches based on knowledge. On the other hand, we are not clear why the branches that produce the most added value, such as IT, continue to face major bureaucratic problems and a state that does not understand their needs? Removing these shortcomings costs nothing. The elimination of the lack of industry that, according to the esteemed trade minister, we believe, exports 350m to 400m euros each year and capitalisation is about 700m and competes on the world market. Why don't we work enough at the same time to prevent these obstacles, to move from 139 places according to the World Economic Forum data, as one of the countries that has the largest brain exports, while also subsidising labour-intense branches, where our people work for 200 euros. The removal of barriers to mind-based branches costs nothing, and the subsidies of labour-intensive branches do not produce results that are not nearly as good as the knowledge-based branches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1318	The word is Alexander Vukitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1319	I'm not going to answer you as I could, because not everyone works for 200 euros, especially you don't work for 200 euros, and you do much less than people who work for 200 euros, and mostly at the expense of the state, and I'm not going to continue, perhaps at some other time. You're right in part. Send us proposals, so let's see what we can do and how we can improve both access and a complete IT sector enterprise programme and how we can make an incomparably more money. Just don't tell me -- don't give subsidies to someone to pay 200 euros, because we've given subsidies to some of the two million dinars, which isn't exactly 200 euros, and they haven't worked in any factory or done anything but destroy the factories. First you stand up for it. As far as the numbers are concerned, you wouldn't be happy with the numbers from last night or today, because I get those numbers a little more often than you do, and I'm looking at them a little bit better and I'm checking them out. So if you want to take some advice, change something to make your numbers a little bit, a little bit better standing, as far as this is concerned. As far as I'm concerned, keep this up, I'll be very pleased with your numbers.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1320	The word is Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1321	There are three exposés in front of me. One since 2012, when the term of office was Ivica Dacic, the second, Mr Vukic, since 27 April 2014, when you were the prime minister and this third, which is logical, you are again the prime minister. In all three of these exposés one thing is that the program, or rather, wishes are almost the same. They're a little more elaborate in this last exposé of yours, but we didn't get all the details, because we're expecting this rest of the part that you said that we're printing and waiting, which it says, we can't wait for it to come out of the press. But what comes first in all three of these exposures, which it insists on, is that the survival of Kosovo and Metohija within the Republic of Serbia is the priority of all governments. I'm talking, first of all, about 2012. Whether it is realistic and as far as possible, you know it well, but the fact that you are at the same time advocating co-operation and entering the EU simply confuses us with Serbian radicals. Haven't enough time passed, enough years, not enough has happened to make sure that the EU does not consider in any case the possibility of Kosovo and Metohija staying in Serbia? Well, isn't one of the crown evidence opening Chapter 35? The last chapter in order was opened first. The head of the chapter is Kosovo and Metohija. They will not close it, all emissaries, all officials of the leading European countries, will not discuss closing the chapter until neighbourly relations with Kosovo are regulated, they say. Well, isn't there enough time, and isn't there enough wisdom and instruction to say, "Well, we can't knock on that door anymore, so we can beg you, and you're taking away some of our territory?" On the other hand, in these exposés, Serbia has to get out of this economic crisis, out of debt slavery, as you have diagnosed, which is true, but the biggest aid is expected from the IMF. After all, we are witnessing, we are eyewitnesses, that the IMF is the one who has determined how and how financial policies and policies of the Serbian state should be managed. We also have contradiction here. You're putting a man to run your finances, a man who's been engaged in the World Bank all this time, working with the IMF. He should now defend Serbia's interests, represent Serbia's interests. Of course, we don't want Serbian radicals here to discuss personality, we appreciate every personality. But isn't that a little contradictory? Well, the IMF clearly says – Serbia must reduce the deficit to be able and able to repay the loans, to maintain its liquidity. You are struggling to improve production, raise population standards, and this same IMF says they are only interested in Serbia's ability to serve its obligations. These are purely dilemmas that are not only with us Serbian radicals, but in the general public. There's a lot of these contradictions. Of course, everyone predicts, which is perfectly logical, that Serbia's development prospects are high in agriculture, energy and education. That's right. That's a lot of chances. Agriculture is something that thanks to our ancestors, that they have left us both land and everything that means the fertility of this country, that our ancestors have left us, and we must at least as much as they have left us to preserve it. But look at the logic. What is the role of the state in this particular government? You don't speak in detail when it comes to agriculture. About three million hectares of Serbia's state through its local self-government annually or periodically makes use of the bid. This ends with local self-government income, and no consideration is given to raising net income per hectare of arable agricultural land. In Europe, net income from one hectare in Europe is between three and 5,000 euros, with an average of about 1,000 euros per hectare in Serbia. Now you have a simple bill, if it's a thousand euros and about three million euros, it's three billion euros in revenue now for Serbia. If they only raised twice as much revenue per hectare, it would be a significant figure, which would certainly speed up everything else needed in Serbia. How can this affect the state? It can be easy, by leading a proper price policy, by providing the market with agrotechnical measures. He doesn't need to be smart enough to tell him where he is and why he needs to sell. He needs to be conditioned. He needs logistics. It's easy for a peasant to manage. That's Serbia's job. This is the government's task – to provide cheap energy, inputs as low as possible, to make production more cost-effective. Where are your entrances? Well, first of all in energy, when it comes to fuel, when it comes to seed goods, when it comes to chemistry that is needed. Most of it is located in Russia, in the Russian Federation. Where's the market? In the same Russian Federation. So what's the logic of things? The logic of things is to reorient to that market. There's no emotion. We can't compete whether anyone loves or loves the Russian Federation more than you or us Serbian radicals. We always loved her the same way, and I think that's what's left. I'm convinced of that. When it comes to energy, we can consider whatever we want, but we need to be aware that we are not a more serious energy factor in broader proportions until the South Stream passes through this Serbia. And we know how many individual members of the government, who are now candidates, have advocated the realisation of this capital investment called the South Stream. Among them is the current minister of traffic. She stood for the South Stream most. She was on every page of every daily newspaper every day with the idea of having an alternative solution, but good. We have to think about it. You don't have a single word in the exposé about South Stream. Is this because it remains and it is understood that negotiations will happen in the next period or for some other reason, we do not know. As far as education is concerned, it's a huge potential and a great opportunity, but look at the contradiction there is. You advocate that as many young people go to school, educate themselves in different ways and ways, and on the other hand you have a very negative example. You have a president of the state who graduated from school in a very, very suspicious way from college. You're witnesses to that. You know that well. What does this young man, when you now speak to him as his future Prime Minister, say he's trying, to learn, which is completely understandable, or to learn about Tom Nikolic, what does he care about, forging a diploma somewhere, getting something fast, getting someone to Ljubisha, so he'll do it to him?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1322	Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1323	It's a very, very negative example. That has to be taken care of. I am merely citing the most prominent figure that the whole of Serbia knows has won a degree, and it is not a small number of our fellow MPs, and, unfortunately, God knows, we are not members of the government who are suspicious.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1324	The word is Alexander Vukitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1325	I have no illusions about the issue of Kosovo and Metohija, I don't even want to make excuses in the story that we first opened Chapter 32, and 35, in many other stories, because it will certainly be one of the most difficult chapters and the last one closed. It will drag us through the relationship between Belgrade and Pristina everywhere and where we do not have a direct run through the chapter, as a political condition. Sometimes they'll react faster, sometimes slower. We never told the people it wasn't true. No one ever told people it wasn't gonna happen. I just think we have to fight to be on that course and do everything we can to protect our territory. That is very difficult. If it hadn't, it would have been easy to come up with such a solution that you cut everything off and say – now we have found a solution that is similar to us and that is easy and after which we no longer have a problem. Whatever we change this problem of Kosovo will remain, whatever happens, whoever it is, we'll always have that problem. We got it from the Prizren League, we got it before the Prizren League. We've got him between the two world wars, and we've got him after World War II. We also have it at the beginning of the crisis in the former Yugoslavia. We must resolve this peacefully, primarily to protect our people in Kosovo and Metohija, and the most endangered part of our people is south of Ibra. Our people north of Ibra are still more compact and directly bound to central Serbia's territory. Anyway, I just think it's important for us to act rationally, to protect our national interests, to protect our territory, and to continue our European path, because if we don't, we can lock it up, close the country, at this point we won't have prosperity. Don't let me tell you any other economic indicators, what would happen and what if we changed it at a time like this. As far as agriculture is concerned, the first part of what you said, the figures aren't true, we don't have three million in our administration, in the jurisdiction of 820,000 hectares, of which we issue between 400 and 450,000 hectares. The total land area in our country is about five million acres, anyway. This second thing that isn't these 450,000 acres is mostly mornings and that's what our administration has. You asked a good question, you said you needed to increase the yield per hectare. Except for the application of agri-technical measures, first of all, it would be important to gather our property and no one would agree to that. No one in this room will agree to that. Just so we're not hypocrites, whenever you suggest it, I'll take it, and we'll be five of us in the O.R. to accept it. Because right now you know what story is going to appear, it's economically justified, but there's going to be a story -- hey, so I've been working here for 60 years, now I can't work. There'll be 500 stories. How many years, we haven't had a commission in decades? We haven't done anything, and that's why we have countless problems, because no one will. We can conduct theoretical discussions here and if I were to say yes, it would be ideal for someone to want and to be able to spend, but no one will go through with it. No one in Serbia wants to do this and there is no strength for it, as there are no other things. Is it going to be the Minister of Agriculture, and I think it's a good thing it's not from that profession, because it takes someone who understands it perfectly, but someone who is both a manager and a lawyer and someone who can do a lot more by watching what income is for the state and what income is for the farmer. And revenues per hectare aren't exactly indicated, but what's absolutely incorrect is around price policy. We can't run a price policy. The world today is a small place, too globalized in which the state could run a price policy. There's no influence from the state. If you have a market in Budapest price of 16 dinars, there can't be a price of 20 dinars here. We can't pay for that. The price can't be much lower here. So, the market is that, and the market is not managed by a country that determines the price, unless we want to go back to some self-sufficient economy from some previous periods, that we have no interaction with Europe and the surrounding markets, then we could also have problems. As far as the South Stream is concerned, it's a simple reason he's not in my exposé. He's not here because Vladimir Putin said the following, quote – South Stream is dead. That's why there's no South Stream. I am not Vladimir Putin, and I cannot determine that the South Stream has and I am not Boyko Borisov that I can say that this pipeline can pass through Bulgaria, because it was obviously a problem and then Putin announced, after that I saw him both with Medvedev and with everyone else, they said that the South Stream was dead. Is it the South Stream, is it the Turkish current, we're getting over Bereg's gas today. I'm worried about the situation in Ukraine. I don't know if you've heard the last news, I'm getting them here, too, that Ukrainian troops are piling up towards Crimea, that the Russians have strengthened their presence and their combat state, as it is now called, functional interoperability or whatever. The question is, what are we gonna do about the gas? That's why we're increasing our reserves, our warehouses. We want to have two billion cubic meters in reserve. If we manage to have two billion cubic metres of gas, we've provided our country with one year in advance. I went to Ilhan Aliev. I'm not running away from alternative sources, I'm about to find them. I went to Amos in America and I talked to Ali in Azerbaijan. I talked to everyone to see where we could get the gas. I spoke here and with, Jadranka, Chevchovich, is that what it's called, the European Commissioner, and I spoke to him. He said you were building an interconnector. We said -- give us 52 million, and we'll pay for the interconnector to Bulgaria, but you haven't told us yet, okay, the interconnector, where that gas will come from. That's what it is. Where's that gas coming from? I don't see that gas yet. They were talking about Krk, so we're going to build a gas pipeline across Hungary, and it's liquid gas, twice as expensive, so I said, we're not going to double the price of gas, we want cheaper gas. They asked me from that platform, floating, in Greece, so they said they couldn't even get it out of there, so they changed the place for this LNG again and we still don't have a solution. Let me tell you right now, we don't have a solution. For a year and a half, we've been working hard to find a solution and we don't have a solution. We're still getting one Russian gas through Beregov. We don't have another gas. When we break up, if God doesn't let us break the line over Beregov, we don't have gas. And don't tell us we weren't worried, we worry every day. We do that every day. It's such a political constitution that we don't know what to do. There's no one I haven't been to in the world. Anyone with gas to offer, I've been talking to. I don't even know where to spend it, but I talked to my friend Victor Pont about picking up some Romanian gas from the Black Sea, but it's small amounts. And to do the interconnection as many as we can 300 to 400 million cubic meters, we can't do it anymore. What we had from Tape and Tanap, so I'm talking to Ali, he's telling me -- well, it won't, it's going to go to Italy and Albania, it won't be possible until we open Shah Deniz two. Now we wait, I don't even know what to tell you about it. We've done everything, we've done everything, someone's gonna say you're a failure. Here, great help. Somebody help us. Tell him to tell me where we can get the gas from there, he's gone. He's gone. Now I've already become nervous talking to some other people who aren't Russians, who told me take another source, great, give me any source and suddenly there's no more source. We depend on the entrance of the Ukraine of Hungary, we depend on Beregov, if it isn't on Bereg's, we, apart from what we have in reserve, we don't have gas. So we have enough reserves, we always have three, four months, it's no panic, and that's why we take care of the people in Serbia. I'm telling you, we don't have a political solution. There's no such thing in the exposé because we don't have a political solution. By the way, Zorana stood up for South Stream. She wasn't up for any other stuff, and South Stream was up for it. What's important is that you just know that we really looked to worry about how much we can, do everything, and that's one of our big strategic pains and the problems we're facing. Now that Putin and Erdogan are talking, whether they agreed, or Erdogan, as the Turks say, whether they agreed on a Turkish flow, about a nuke, I'm not interested in a nuke, whether they agreed on a Turkish flow, and whether they did, because then the Turks from Azerbaijan can pull less gas and somehow we can somehow get him to Serbia. We need two billion at this point, we're going to need it, we're counting in ten years about 3.5 billion, due to an increase in industrial production. That's our assessment. We'll be able to pull from where. We don't have anywhere to pull that gas. There's no solution. That's why I didn't even mention it. Otherwise, I can write a whole book about how global political war is fought through gas and other energy. Unfortunately, we haven't been killed yet, but we can get hurt. We can literally suffer neither guilt nor debt. That we didn't blame anyone, that we begged everyone, that we asked everyone to pay, not to get a gift, to pay the market price, but there are always some countries around that are in conflict with those other big political games, and we can't solve it any other way. We can't solve this. If anyone has a proposal to point out where that gas is, because I don't think there's anything from North Stream Two, and I think there's going to be more and more problems about it, and that's why they get complicated between other things and the European continent, but we're too small to be able to influence something like that. It's our job to get as far as possible for our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1326	Ljubisa Stojmirović, just tell me the replica. The replica of Milorad Mircic, he was mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1327	My colleagues and colleagues, human stupidity is infinite and it comes to the farthest places like light and air. I promised myself I wouldn't answer stupid questions at the time, but to not define this question now be that it's one of the pointless questions I'm going to answer right now. Whether someone likes or doesn't like Tomislav Nikolic is no reason to insult other people besides Tomislav Nikolic. I'm not just thinking about myself. It is true, Tomislav Nikolic was at my place and he was given the grade he deserved for his knowledge, but other than Tomislav Nikolic and many MPs, ministers, ordinary workers in this country, they were with me because it was my job. They say Tomislav Nikolic's diplomat was faked and bought. It's not true either. His diploma is quite regular and not bought, or if you don't count on what's paid for the tuition, it's perfectly normal. That doesn't prove me, it has proven several inspections by the Democratic Party were sent to the university to check it out and all their reports say it's all right. On the other hand, why are you attacking a college, attacking thousands of students who have graduated from that university and teachers who teach at that university. I'm not the only one who taught Tomislav Nikolic. He was also teaching him a professor. Istvan Cherniček, the world's famous expert and I'd like you to find anyone in Serbia who laid down with Professor Cherniček without knowing. Milorad Mircic, from the site: Time. All right.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1328	Thank you. It's like playing tennis so someone confuses the players and shouts - time, no judge says it's time. You have ten seconds left after someone else interrupted you, not the chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1329	Therefore, because you do not like Tomislav Nikolic, there is no reason for you to bring up lies and lies. He deserved his degree and proudly can carry the calling of a graduate management engineer, because he showed in practice that he's a good manager. What he did, you never will.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1330	Thank you. (Milorad Mircic, from the place: Replica. You don't have a replica, he just answered your insinuations. The Prime Minister didn't say a word about you. Second time, there's still plenty of time for your MP. A lot of them gave up, just so I don't lose the thread. The word has the People's MP Goran Jesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1331	Dearly beloved, I have listened carefully to the exposés, believe it or not, it can also be done at the MP's club, and it can be read. The decision was made because it was a political decision. You should understand that because you've been in this House your whole life or Parliament across the street. We've heard a bunch of things, a bunch of projects in the "pattle" pile of "cash floa", "snel bans" and that's a good thing. Let's be serious, I think you had to propose a government law. I will say for what reason – because you have joined the Ministry of Agriculture and Ecology. I think somewhere in the exposé you clearly indicated that you had doubts when you were doing it, because it's impossible to connect the biggest contaminant with whoever has to prevent it from being polluted, which is agriculture. Today you have a bunch of international contracts where agriculture is limited as a polluter. Right now, let me tell you that I have no problem with the objectives of your government, with the foreign investments you're making. You criticized it when Dinkic did it, you do it in a different way, but you should do it because without foreign investment there is no shift. In the end, the first or second day after the election, you visited India and visited one of the investments that my associates and I brought. We absolutely agree here, I don't think there are any programmes and education goals. I can't answer whether it's dual education or not, but I think education must be first. Also, what I know and I can tell you is the story of agriculture. I have to tell you that you've set a good goal, which is capital investment in agriculture, but you haven't given a political answer that you just said anything about. We can't talk in parliament without having political goals. You must state whether agriculture is a social branch in which we will have 20 plus employees, or whether it will be an economic branch, which will bring profits to this country, increase exports, and you can only do so by capital injection. On the 61st side of your exposé, in the third paragraph, you mentioned at some point the anecdote that you were talking to the minister, that she was offering tractors, or a combination, and that no one wanted to take it. You know what, Mr. Prime Minister, in order for you to give 50% of the free funds, someone has to have 50% of the participation, and that participation can be secured or you have cash, which has a very small number of peasants or give them money from some development fund or some commercial bank under privileged conditions. We didn't do it, but we did what we discussed yesterday, what you threw at me, and you know it. We gave about a billion dinars of Al Ravafed in Serbia, with 1% interest for two companies, the first company is Jadran Gajdobra, and the second company is "Bačka Sivac". If we'd directed that money at these peasants and allowed them to withdraw 1%, I'm sure at least 300 combinations would have been withdrawn and some other kinds of machinery. This is where we come to your conclusion in the exposé that was in the written part, which is that the land and the law that you have made will work hard on it. I deeply believe he's wrong, changing the Law on Agricultural Land. I'm trying to be quick because I have very little time. I mean deeply wrong, and that's proof why we have hidden agricultural contracts. Why do we have hidden contracts about whether someone is going to invest in agriculture? We said open up all the contracts from "Fiyat" to this project regarding Backa, Sivac, the Adriatic and the Karadjordjeva and we have no problem discussing these topics. And for the end, you mentioned the wind. Yes, you've defined the wind as a key problem. Your vet is 90% of your negotiation. I'll remind you that you've changed or chosen or re-elected three times the different directors of the vet. You don't have continuous negotiators. The most capable people, thanks to the people in your party, I don't believe you have anything to do with it, they've moved, they can negotiate, and you won't find them on the street to get you to negotiate the veterinary. If you don't, we'll have a problem. And for the end of four ministers, four years. The main postulate of European agrarian policy is predictability and certainty. How can we have predictability and certainty when we change agrarian politics every four years and every year? It's too much and it's impossible. If we listen to you very carefully here, we think it makes sense, but if you haven't done enough, you haven't created a system to solve the problems, above all corruption in the land, and above all in those bodies that need to do the job for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1332	Thank you. (Natasa Jovanovic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1333	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. I'm reporting under Article 27. I wouldn't really answer if you hadn't reacted earlier, I don't mean needlessly, as far as you're concerned, to defend someone's integrity, which isn't there, and the dignity of someone who is unfortunately, but leaving the President of the Republic when you said that...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1334	It doesn't give you the system to insult, it looks, so it shuts down. You can't qualify as President of the Republic in that way. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1335	You said my colleague Mircic had certain insinuations. To prove to you that this is not the case, and you must bear in mind that none of the Serbian radicals are telling the truth and...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1336	I was talking about South Stream.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1337	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1338	I know what I was saying, but do you read my mind?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1339	I don't know what you said about South Stream, but I know what you said to my colleague Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1340	He was looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1341	That he has insinuations to the conduct of Mr. Ljubisa Stojmorovic's colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1342	He asked for a replica to speak of the South Stream and to plow with the prime minister...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1343	Mrs. Gojkovic, since you were not referred to these events during this period, as is Mr. Vukic, who can confirm...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1344	Okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1345	... On 23 June 2010 Tomislav Nikolic...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1346	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. I didn't let you give a speech. It's just a violation of the Rules of Procedure. So, in which I, as chairman, have injured the Rules of Procedure. Be nice. I'll give you my word anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1347	You have no reason to be nervous at all. So you've injured the Rules of Procedure as chairman. I've given you a very good statement, Article 27 of Section 2. You must take care of the application of this Rules of Procedure. You know that very well. So, you can't take any of the MPs' claims, which there is evidence, I will prove it to you, on 23 June 2010, Tomislav Nikolic, was in Strasbourg, at a meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, here are the living MPs here who were with me at the time, and allegedly took two exams. So it's all a lie. He bought a diploma. Ljubisa made it possible for him and that diploma was obtained illegally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1348	First of all, I'm not nervous. Believe me, I'm a terrible keeper of stress in my life. I'm at a certain age, and I'm keeping my eye on the stress. So there's no anxiety. All I know is that I listen very carefully to all MPs. It's not easy. So the part where I didn't give him the right to reply is to continue talking to the South Stream Prime Minister. Ambassador Stojmirovic received a replica because it was mentioned in a negative context. (Vojislav Seselj, from town: Replica. You don't have a replica. You weren't even in the O.R. No one mentioned you, MP. Milorad Mircic throws. ) The replica was won on your first part of the exhibition. You mentioned his name and name. There must be a part of the MPs who are very interested in talking about some other topics, and we'll do that in particular. Suggest that, collect signatures, and we'll talk about whatever you want if you get most of the chance to set the agenda. (Vojislav Seselj, from town: Replica. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, No one mentioned you. It's just a matter of work. You weren't here. I must give my word to the next MP, Jasmine Nikolic. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1349	I just want to say a few things because you keep talking about some secret contracts. The agreement with “Alva alfred” in general, is fully published on the Government website, in whole. There are no secret or hidden elements. By the way, you know that people would know, because they keep saying bad things, I'm grateful for your correct attitude, for understanding the goals, and for sometimes knowing that something is good, but I didn't understand all the time this campaign that's going against it. People should know the next thing, the government of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia has not given a single dinar to the company "Alva alfred", no loans, no money given to them. The purchase price was paid for both Sivac and Backo Palanka all the debts left by the previous authorities there. All debts are paid. They have so far invested around 50m euros, exactly 49.2m euros. New machinery, new bay systems have been purchased and two logistics centres and silos in Sivac and Backo Palanca will be completed literally within a month. We can go and open them together. Also, the company currently employs 121 workers. Salaries are drastically higher than average, than they normally are in this industry. I think that at logistics centres, it also serves as an example for workers in every sense. They exhibit an extremely high level of social responsibility due to irrigation measures and others. You understand that. barley had 6.44 tons per hectare in June, wheat 7.8 tons per hectare in June. It's precisely because of the success they've made that they've managed to secure a double harvest and I think these are really great offerings, and everything else is fairy tales and everything else is fiction and I don't have any problem just coming to look at everything, but I don't have any problem going there together. By the way, since you kept mentioning some members of my family about it, they have nothing to do with it. Nothing to do with anything, nothing at all, and the director who was appointed was otherwise a member of the DS. They chose him by his expertise, they chose him by his own expertise. Nothing else in any way. I could say that maybe there's someone more professional or not, that's their thing, that's their business. I don't want to get involved in their business and everything. Whenever you want, I'm ready to go over there and look at it and see it. As for foreign investors and those brought by others, we have prepared and provided new subsidies so that they can expand their jobs both in your city and in many other cities because I think it is the only possible way to grow Serbia's economy and GDP. Unfortunately, I fear there is one silent majority in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia who does not understand and does not want to understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1350	Thank you. The word is Jasmine Nikolic. (Goran Jesic, from the place: Can I have a minute? ) Here's a minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1351	Thank you. I know I haven't been mentioned, so thank you. To be clear, both Gydobra and Sivac received money from the Development Fund at 1%, to settle their debts. We didn't leave those debts to be sold, did we? At the height of a billion and something, we have data, it's not a big deal. It's about what you and I don't get along. I don't think it's better to introduce anyone that way when we have top-notch producers in Backo Palanca. Top agricultural producers in Bačka Palanca who will achieve more and more environments and state land is a resource that is developmental and that has enabled us, following Ivana Dulic's law, to get new young agricultural producers. That's why you shouldn't be working. You mentioned the yachts today during the afternoon. That law will give you yachts to hold all the land you give in that way, because they have famous cash fleets that can invest, and these agricultural producers still don't. That's why the best model is that we continue to bid, strengthen control and disable the tycoonization of that land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1352	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1353	Just two things. We're auctioning unlike the previous periods. The first time three municipalities didn't get our transfer funds because they didn't. The first time we've done serious results, and I expected you to say hello. Last year we had problems literally in 33 municipalities, because it wasn't done in the right way. It was a source of corruption, and that is why tycoons have always been the easiest way to manage, as you know, which is what Nedimovic knows, as many others know, especially the ambassadors from Vojvodina. Now we're asking how we're going to make it a business branch, not a social branch, every time we discuss whether we're going to give a thousand more dinars or not. Then when we got to that, and we didn't, I was wrong, we didn't pay that much for the machinery because we made some kind of idiot bureaucratic mistake, and now we're gonna make it right, and that's the big money we're giving out. It's a huge amount of money we're willing to give. (The National MP Goran Jesic throws out of place. ) Ma, I understand, but people, if someone has such impulses that they have to invest so much every year, if we give them, give them 5,000 euros, so for five or six they can take credit, and out of the production they make, the profits they make will be able to finance interest and live decently, not to be rich, but to live decently. No investment in machinery, no investment in irrigation, in the fact that with a thousand dinars we're going to give more, or that we're going to lower the price of fuel by one euro, or for no idea what, it's not going to be a big deal. But once again, my invitation stands open to you, to make sure that everything you've been saying wasn't always true, and I'm ready to accept every idea and every proposal that's good enough to go to that for our agriculture to develop successfully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1354	Thank you. The word is Jasmine Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1355	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, respected citizens, I will refer to the part of the exposé relating to education reform, or dual education. There is no doubt that co-operation between businesses and educational institutions is necessary. Dual education provides a chance for a meaningful education of young people, as well as for economic development. Inadequate and outdated education significantly reduces the chances of young people to work, as well as learning through work significantly increases them. The mandate pointed to this in the exposé and cited a correlation between the percentages of the unemployed, so less than 10%, and dual education in developed countries such as Germany or Switzerland. The European Parliament's dual education studies say that countries that introduce it must pay attention to the structural and socio-economic context at the time of the introduction of dual education, as contexts differ significantly and thus models. Therefore, the countries concerned are characterised by sound quality-checking mechanisms, a stable and large-scale market that can cover demand and the market that is finally matured for a very important matter, which is to be a partner in creating education policies. Supporting, therefore, the idea of dual education as a chance, I would ask the prime minister to explain the structural and socio-economic similarities between Serbia and those countries, which is why the government has defined itself for this particular model. Is there any other model that has been consulted? If he gave up, why did he give up? Then, is it possible that an analysis of the feasibility and sustainability of this implementation model is done, because it is important for Serbia to enter into such an important structural reform, so that we do not have what happened, and we all know that the Bologna Reform has passed, which is why we now have amendments to the laws that are also spoken of in the exposé, because a new Law on Higher Education is being prepared? Finally, what model of funding would be applicable? In Germany, for example, the percentage of student abandonment ranges from 4% in the public sector to 50% in the hotel sector. I can't say, but it can be theoretical for us to have the burden of funding dual education come back and fall on the public sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1356	The word is Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1357	Would you be so kind as to tell me how much time I have?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1358	Seven minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1359	Thank you. Today we're in the so-called. The third phase of the election process of the new government, and we have witnessed a beautiful fact that it is finally coming out of lawfulness. I am personally dissatisfied that this exposure and this programme was not on much more sides, which did not cover all the chapters, which did not cover all the strategies, to make it nice and clear, and when voted for the programme, it voted practically for any future changes. I find it a little strange that there is some criticism of this, for a simple reason that there has been pro-European authority and pro-European opposition in Serbia for several years. I think that this programme, which we have had the opportunity to hear, is the central point of all policies of the EU's convergence from 5 October to today. There's everything. There is also what was the subject of observation, examination, commendation. Just to remind you, since 5 October, the EU has praised everything that is happening in Serbia. The European Union still praises what is happening in Serbia today and what is done in Serbia. So when these DS critics, I don't know why they're criticizing. However, they criticise the number of pages and so some things, do not criticise anything fundamental. That's the way. What bothers me is when I hear there's no alternative. I think it's an impossible variant, neither logical nor philosophical. That would mean about as if I said – Seselj has no alternative, so I go to Ceda Jovanovic. It means there's an alternative. We are aware that there was an alternative and there were oaths and everything. But, you know, one stage runs out of one team, and then another team shows up, so the third team, so that previous team is the cause, it makes some consequence, that consequence is the cause of another team showing up, but it doesn't give up on the road. The road is called the EU dogma. There's no ideology, there's no politics, there's nothing. I appreciate that finally voters also know, there is no error, the goal to be achieved at this stage is that in four years Serbia comes to the EU door. Of course, it counts that the door will be open, that there's no need to knock. But if they're closed, it's no problem. Why? Well, here's Turkey's thirty and a few years on this long-term trip, and when it's looked at, it's important that EU jokers here have access to European funds, etc., and that there's talk, that hope is wasted. I'm glad I didn't hear the exact dates in this exposé. We used to listen, and we're seeing each other in 2004, and then in 2008, and so on. There's no such thing here. I can't comment on good hopes, wishes, I never have the right to doubt it, and I don't even need to give a moral sermon. It is important to me that voters know that there is no alternative and that on this path to the EU we must master matter, to get only the Brussels administration. We need to find out that a pensioner in the government of the Republic of Serbia can't keep Serbia as well as a pensioner of the World Bank because, you heard yesterday, everything paid out of the budget goes first to an IMF official's approval. Then it's illusory to talk about statistics, about hopes. That is the consequence of the road to the EU, which has no alternative. Of course, someone who doesn't give a shit when they hear that practically the ones who bombed us are now our friends, the ones who take KIM are our friends, we're the ones who don't, we don't, but based on the experience we have to draw the conclusion that at the green table with them anyone has failed from this territory to make some good move. If anyone thinks we're the big bad guys and we can fool them, they're wrong, please. I'm glad we respect the people's will. The national will is such, most of it exists, there is no alternative, it has to go towards the EU, and that road has some price, and we will have to pay that price, with the chiefs, the heads, the Brussels administration, the debt, the business of foreign banks in this way as they operate here. We will likely in the future when concrete laws are in question much more detail to discuss certain individual areas, but we must express satisfaction that no one in Serbia can doubt that most without an alternative leads Serbia to the EU, with hope that in four years we will hit that door. Whether it's open or not, I don't know. One more thing's very interesting. It changes this quickly, you know, in Europe. You've heard of this referendum and the UK has made a decision. Then they started threatening the UK and they said, well, some divorce period will pass, but if you want to join again, you have to meet the conditions, and you are already not meeting the conditions needed to join the EU. So there are several categories, let's say, of EU members. You know for a fact that everyone in the EU applies their regulations and standards as well as their suitability. We're not at that opportunity. Of course, I would just like voters in some of the next elections to take more seriously what the EU means, what we will destroy on that path, execute.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1360	Time. Thank you. The word is Milos Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1361	Dear citizens, MPs, we in Nis can boast that we have become known as cable installers. In fact, the state has been throwing money through a number of subsidies, and we've got a lot of these factories where people work for some small money, for 20,000 dinars, and they barely survive. I'm interested – will this government continue this programme with these subsidies and then the whole state becomes a state-run cable-trailer after a while? I can already imagine a commercial on SNN – Serbia, a country of cable rides, we're cheaper than China. That would be interesting. As far as the IT sector is concerned, where I come from, bureaucracy is a big problem. I can say that the NBS is the biggest driver of modern business in Serbia because it continues to talk about some seals and some 19th-century regulations, something that hasn't long been used in the modern world. I don't have too many expectations, by the way, from this government. How can I expect anything from our prime minister who gives us some lessons about it, complains that there is not enough entrepreneurial spirit in our people, it seems to me that he wants to replace the people, get some better people because he doesn't like this one, and at the same time has a total of zero years of employment in the private sector? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1362	Thank you. I apologize to Ambassador Dragan Jovanovic for skipping it. First Alexander Wolfie, and you get ready.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1363	I'm afraid there's not a lot of people listening to you, but I've heard a lot of insults you've been making and I won't answer. That mockery speaks a lot more about you than it does about me. Now the camera's going to record you, so make sure you get serious, 'cause you work all the time and talk like TV videos and nothing else. As far as cable wrappers are concerned, when you bring one cable to Nis and one man on that cable you hire, then report to me for a transfer, and by then cable wrappers and everyone else do their job and make some money. Don't suggest models in the IT sector like you and your president in America did and made it suddenly that in the IT sector we're missing $1.069.000 because we're not going to apply that model in Serbia. As far as Nisa is concerned, we bring to Nis a large number of factories, both Filipino and Turkish and many others, and we do our best to get Nis back, to be an industrial center. It would be good to have some kind of help and support, and to be honest, since you don't expect much, I'd be scared and worried that you expect much. That means you'd expect a lot of tax evac, a lot of robbery, a lot of other stuff. Thank you for not expecting that. Expect a lot of work, expect these factories. The wages aren't big, but they better exist than they don't exist at all. We'll keep working on it. As for the insults you make every day, I guess that's the only way to say something, and I guess that's the only means you can turn to those who've chosen you, you can go on that way, and I'll watch to do it, and in the end, the people in Nis and every other place in Serbia will be able to judge who worked and who recorded the videos. As far as the videos go, go as far as you want, but check the numbers you talked about earlier, check them out from last night and today. Something's not going well with you, it seems to me that if you don't change your approach a little bit that the numbers will go significantly below what was enough for you to appear in this House. Then make sure the election doesn't come as soon as possible, but that the longer this government takes so that you can go out and check out the menu as often as you've done today. Thank you. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: I am mentioned. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1364	Are you mentioned? Name, last name, how? (Saša Radulovic, from the place: I am mentioned. You didn't mention it, I didn't hear it. Okay, I'll take a stenogram. If you mention it, I'll give you my word. You'll give me a stenogram when you finish this page. Dragan Jovanovic is asking to speak. You have to sign up one more time, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1365	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister Vukic, ladies and gentlemen of the future ministers, colleagues and colleagues, it is my pleasure to speak today when the new government is elected. By believing in energy and all that we have told Serbian citizens in the pre-election campaign, I hope that this government will have a good start in me and my colleagues from the New Serbia Parliament Club will have sincere associates. What I wanted to point out in my presentation, as much as that time will allow, is first of all three areas mentioned, which in the very exposé, which later in the debate, has been here for three days. First, it's local self-government. As longtime president of the municipality of Topola and I find it uncomfortable to hear what my colleagues have done in other municipalities and cities, but what my ears are steaming, the respected Prime Minister Vukic, is – you are talking about the responsibilities of the people who led the local self-government, but you did not mention the responsibility of those who allowed them to do so, which is primarily the Ministry of Finance and that is the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It is precisely known how a local self-government can be entrusted and for which the sum can be charged, and these duties were the most from 2008 to 2012. It should also be noted who was then the finance minister and then the Prime Minister and who gave consent to the enormous duties that generations would repay. On the other hand, you mentioned a new Law on the financing of local self-government, you mentioned a reduction in the transfer funds that will go from the central budget to local self-government and, of course, that local self-government will have to increase its original revenues. One thing you mentioned and I just have to touch it, and that's a dead-end capital that exists in local self-government, these are objects that exist now, they're not used. It is also necessary to increase the property tax as the original income of local self-government, if it increases on these facilities, then the revenues of these local self-governments will be increased. Unfortunately, Your Honor, I tried this in my municipality five years ago, for example, for objects that have been returned to former owners by the restitution they now do not know what to do with these facilities, and objects are, for example, objects. Beautiful former hotels. The Constitutional Court has annulled me and told me that we do not have the right to do so as a local self-government, that in the same area we tax objects with different rates and that it simply violates the rights of those future owners who have received these facilities by restitution and that decision has fallen to us in the Constitutional Court. The second thing you mentioned is a return and a faster return to the use of property of local self-government, i.e. property located on the territory of local self-government, currently headed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia's Property Directorate. I would only point out one thing: the average length of the claim to regain the right to use property facilities in local self-government takes up to three years, and that procedure must be accelerated if we are to do anything. The other thing I wanted to mention is agriculture. We're all saying that our greatest developmental opportunity is agriculture, and here we are first and foremost talking about the development of small and medium-sized land. Dear Prime Minister, we unfortunately do not have a situation in Serbia, especially in rural parts of the mountain-mounted mountain-mounted area that our villages are empty. We have a situation there that one third of our people don't have a certified health book. We have a situation, unfortunately, currently in Serbia that debt for social and health insurance in 2008 is growing rapidly, that debt per municipality and over a billion dinars. It's a frozen state at the moment, but if it freezes, God forbid, those debts will come at once for payment. We need to work together to fix this thing just so we can see what of it can be written off in what way these landowners can be helped. Unfortunately, we also have practice, I come from a municipality that has developed fruit growing, which is a rich municipality. We have over three thousand registered owners where you have constant control of the IRS. Now, if in 2008 and 2009, it was the basis of 4.5 million dinars to get someone into VAT and if it broke through for 100,000 dinars retroactively to his Tax Administration in 2015 and 2016, it brings the fines of a dragon to pay people who simply didn't know that they would not know about 100,000 dinars entering VAT, and these are problems, and we're trying to get people to move on and move on. The second thing is very serious, and it is that today's registered head office in Serbia is forced to work on black because there is no possibility of hiring workers. It's a serious problem, and we need to do something about it. The fourth thing I have to mention, I was here in the previous term talking about this pay phone when a new bankruptcy law was passed, I'm talking about employment, so how can we talk about employment if we have an endless bankruptcy? Unfortunately, due to lack of time, I have to talk fast, because what's this about? The bankruptcy directors, unfortunately, have no interest in simply limiting bankruptcy. Although we have a time formally limited in practice, there's a completely different situation going on. And, finally, I have to ask you, that's what I got today, it's about an acute problem, and it's about former workers who have about 100,000 in Serbia. These are workers who worked for companies that failed or went into bankruptcy, or were later liquidated or privatised from bankruptcy, which were mostly state-owned...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1366	Your time has passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1367	I'm just asking you to speak, there's a report of a court ruling on the debt of these people we think would be to find a solution to how these people can be helped. These are the people who are the real losers of the transition...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1368	MP, time, six minutes and 22 seconds. The word is by MP Branka Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1369	First of all, I would like to welcome the prime minister to the home of the National Assembly, the highest authority in the Republic of Serbia, who otherwise has a very important control function of the executive government, as one of the 250 controllers elected by citizens, I would like to refer to part of the health exposure. The day before yesterday, we heard, here from the prime minister, that at the annual level from the health budget, a billion euros were lost and mysterious, untraceable. Afterwards, the prime minister cried for someone to explain to him how and where. My question for the mandate is -- who should determine where a billion euros disappears on an annual basis from the health budget? Who should prevent that, and who should the citizens call to account for it? Under a (a) tunnel jerks, under b) pokemons and under c) today's prime minister, and yesterday's prime minister and tomorrow's prime minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1370	The word has a mandater. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1371	The answer is, if I saw a), b) and v)? Is that right? Or a, b) or c)? So it was a, b) and c), right? You offered me that as an answer. I think the answer is if you took that Latin a), b) and c), then I'll tell you that under d), I usually thought a, b), c) and g), the answer is d), the bankruptcy manager from California. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1372	The word is by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1373	Dear citizens, ladies and gentlemen, I have a concrete comment on RTB Bor's business from where I come from which I find it extremely important for Serbia's economy. A programme to revitalise mining and reconstruction of metallurgical capacities in RTB Bor was implemented between 2009 and 2015. Over $400 million has been spent to implement this programme. The programme was implemented with the support of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The strategic definitions that have been drawn in it have not been reached. The technological goal of producing 80,000 tonnes of copper was achieved by less than 50%. The economic objective, the cost-effective production is nowhere near achieved, which is a generator of huge losses, which at the current price on the copper market is over $100 million a year. The ecological goal of reaching world standards has also not been achieved, sulphur dioxide emissions in the atmosphere are regularly above the limits allowed. To the shame and responsibility of the previous government of the Republic of Serbia, this programme has become the biggest missed investment in Serbia. That's why I ask the Prime Minister a question - which is why the new government plans to continue to work on RTB Bor, when the previous government development programme realised with catastrophic results, and the adopted UPPR is not realistic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1374	Thank you. Alexander Chabrai.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1375	I'd only read one brief quote from the previous exposé. "Before we achieve strategic cultural goals I want to tell you that we will achieve a seemingly small goal but symbolically important to our culture. I promise that this government will restore the National Museum in the Square of the Republic, which, to the shame of all of us, stands shut down for almost a decade. I'm ashamed as a parent to have children living in this country who haven't had a chance to see the National Museum. I don't want to blame anyone for having closed the museum for years, but I wouldn't feel good as a politician if the National Museum hadn't been reopened during this government's term." Reading complete. Since the mandate of the previous government has ended, and the National Museum we know is still closed, I think many Serbian citizens want to know how they can believe the promises from the new exposé when we see that neither the promises from the previous exposé have yet to be fulfilled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1376	Ambassador Vladimir Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1377	Thank you. Madam Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament and respected citizens of Serbia, and, of course, to the mandate and candidates for ministers, in our first address as a member of the People's Parliament, I will say that we are fully honest here, no matter how politically inexperienced and naive it seems to someone, we do not appear to anyone from the position of ridicule, defamation, nor will we ever criticise anyone's work ethics, as we have been honored here all day, and I believe that it will be similar when we finish our presentation. The mandater's exposé said it would seek rational use of agricultural resources. That's okay. It's a principle that's totally acceptable. In response to the parliamentary question, the prime minister said in July 2014, Al Rafaved, on parcels sold to them and leased, I will quote "show Case" on five major contributions. The information coming from there from the field, related to the Morovic military facility, says the lease was paid only 60 euros, that the offerings were about 700kg per hectare, that the country was processed only sometime around the first seasons on the occasion of a visit to the prime minister. I may be politically inexperienced and I'm not gullible to rumors, but the company Al Rafaved has shown 220 million dinars of loss in the final account for 2015 and that's something I think should be clarified. In addition to one of the items related to exposures, it has been announced that financial risks, primarily foreign and interest, will be accessed by operations based on financial derivatives. I hope we understand that our stock market is far from developed, that our financial services sector is also far from developed, and I hope we just don't go the way Ronald Reagan started the American economy, when the financial market waved to the point where 2008 created a global economic crisis. Thank you. So much for me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1378	Thank you. Anna Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1379	Dear citizens of Serbia, fellow MPs, I would refer first to the section concerning culture, art and the media. In his exposé, the prime minister stressed that the economic recovery of society is not enough unless it is accompanied by the cultural and social recovery of society. With this in terms of culture budgets, they are getting smaller each year, which gives the impression that culture is not important at all. What is a big problem is that the principle of the institution of culture, the most important institutions of culture, are often set up by party unprofessional people who further destroy the country's culture. The important issue is that the media in Serbia are not free, says the Citizens' Protector, a number of international prominent institutions, as well as numerous news associations. My question is: when can the citizens of Serbia expect that an institution of culture will be placed at the head of an experienced, cultural and educated people behind whom numerous artistic and production achievements stand, and when will journalists be able to report freely, independently of pressure, without fear that their critical and research inscriptions will end up as exhibits at individual exhibitions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1380	Ratko Jankov. He's giving up. Okay. A letter from Tatjana Macura.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1381	Dear citizens, in the year of entrepreneurship, the prime minister advertises us as a country of cheap labour. So, a prime minister who doesn't have a day's work experience in the private sector open in his exposé says we don't have an entrepreneurial spirit. It seems the prime minister thinks he deserves some better people and continues to insult all our hardworking and capable people. As an entrepreneur, but also as the mother of two children, whom I don't want to watch over Skype, and I don't want them to become cheap labour here, but to my people, responsible and free, I ask the prime minister - when will he stop scurrying with large corporations foreign to the expense of the domestic economy? When is he going to stop suffocating a small domestic entrepreneur and is this our country of citizens or mandated business partners? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1382	Ambassador Nenad Christmas. He's giving up. Sonja Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1383	Thank you very much. Respected citizens of Serbia, the Law on Planning and Construction, which the prime minister is proud of, is not something that adorns the previous government. I'm telling you this as someone who has 30 years of experience in the field of construction and during whose professional life has changed six laws on planning and construction, all worse than the other, but only this success, and the creator of this is Mrs. Zorana Mihajlovic, to break down domestic construction, and that the entire business branch to give to foreign builders on a gift, leaving their domestic activity as subcontractors of foreign businesses. I therefore find it unacceptable for Mrs Mihajlovic to remain in the membership of this government. There's a simple but important saying in construction that I don't know if the mayor knows, which is that the house is counted from the roof, and it's built from the foundation. I would say that the mandater is not really familiar with this rule, because ignoring the local knowledge and experience of the wall of his Babylonian tower in Belgrade on the water, because it does not realize that they are based on the rink. A question for the mandater – Serbian citizens expect you to answer the question of what happened on election night at the Herzegovina Street in Savala, and to bring the perpetrators of that shameful act to justice before you take your oath to serve Serbian citizens the truth and justice? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1384	Thank you. Lovely Mihaylovska.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1385	Respected citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1386	Lovely Mihaylovska, messenger of lovely Mihaylovska, what is it now?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1387	Well, here we go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1388	I don't know where you're sitting, but...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1389	There is no unit where my parliamentary group is, please give me back my time and let me speak, I don't know how much time there is?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1390	Please, I don't know what you're doing...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1391	What?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1392	Please, but can you hear me in the O.R.?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1393	I hear you well.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1394	It's not you. It's the MPs. So whenever I call someone, I ask you to sign into the system and then I give you my word. So, let's do it again, please just...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1395	So reported...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1396	Don't yell, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1397	Well, I've been reported, why don't you, I haven't been deprived of my business ability, let me speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1398	However much I would like to give you back your time, MPs of Mihaylovska, please, I know what I'm saying to you, to give you back your time. You'll be kind enough to sign up again, now you're wasting your time and don't talk, that's just the problem. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1399	Thank you. Dear citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I address the House of National Assembly as one of the 571,780 people with disabilities in Serbia, which is 8% of the total population. I am speaking, as you can see, from the donkey bench, which is a symbol of actually where people with disabilities and their families in Serbia are today. I don't know if you know this, but Uganda has reserved four seats in its parliament for people with disabilities, Egypt nine. Where's Serbia today? Why wasn't the list proportional to how many Serbian citizens actually do it? So I am really concerned that the Minister of Labour will again be Mr. Vulin, who, among other things, supported the investment, construction and renovation of institutions in which people with disabilities live, whose living conditions are almost inhumane. In the exposé of the prime minister, we saw only one paragraph dedicated to disabled persons, in the part of social protection. Persons with disabilities are not only subject to social protection, but disability is a question of human rights, social inclusion and concerns all resolutions. Please answer when will the government bring a public service accessibility strategy to people with disabilities, and I mean not just physical and information-communication accessibility? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1400	Before I give an infringement to the Rules of Procedures of Parliament Vesni Rakonjic, I am obliged to inform you that at the end of last term we have established a special working group dealing with the involvement of persons with disabilities in Serbia's political life. I call on you in this term, where my presidency has taken over MP Vesna Rakonjac, to engage in this work and to improve the position of disabled people in our country. Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure, Vesna Rakonjac. I gave my word to the Messenger Vesni Rakonjac because she asked, but I'll give it to you. Here you go. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: What over his line? Because Vesna Rakonjac gave priority. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1401	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I point to a violation of article 107. I don't know how you're not ashamed of yourself, Mr. Radulovich, to abuse your colleague's physical disability by making a performance in the National Assembly? When the Federal Assembly was incinerated on 5 October 2000, the project of reconstruction of this building was managed by Dragoljub Micunović, neither was Aleksandar Vukic, nor was Maja Gojkovic. And having four seats for people with disabilities is not Mrs. Maja Gojkovic's responsibility. Your colleague, lovely Mihajlovska, has a secure place to talk to and who she can vote with. And you should be ashamed that in the most brutal way possible, you did so in the session of the Administrative Committee, you abuse the physical handicap of a woman. Shame on you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1402	It's over now. So now I give my word to Ambassador Fatmir Hasani. Members of the Parliament, it's not you that's mentioned, it's the head of your parliamentary group, but let MP Fatmir Hasani sit down from this morning and wait his turn. Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1403	Madam President, the Honorable Prime Minister, we have always had one or two MPs in this House, but we have never been part of the Government. Now we have shown interest in being part of the government because of the great need for the political and economic stability of the entire region. We've had honest conversations with the prime minister. We agreed to solve our problems and, on that occasion, the prime minister accepted that the Albanian minority is starting to integrate into state bodies and institutions. The coordination body has been working with us and the Republic of Serbia has since 2001 introduced a programme of measures to address the crisis in the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac, which has been partially implemented. For 16 years since the adoption of the programme in these municipalities, there have been public institutions where the number of employees of Albanians is either marginal or not. Reforms in the judiciary have drastically demoted the position of Albanians in Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedji. In Presevo municipality, the primary court and the main prosecutor's office were suspended. The criminal court is the only institution that works here. There is a basic court in Bujanovac, not a primary prosecutor's office. The only prosecution in this municipality is part of the Vranj General Prosecutor's Office. The number of employees in these judicial institutions does not correspond to the population structure, according to domestic imperial standards. A border crossing with Macedonia Miratovac – Lojana, despite the existence of an official decision from 2006, remains unopened, and IPA funds of border co-operation with Macedonia did not exist until this year. Education in Albanian also faces many problems that have not been solved. Not recognising a university degree in Kosovo makes young Albanians close to every perspective, both for employment and for social integration. That is why they decide to seek happiness in EU countries. The partial lack of textbooks for the basic and absolute lack of textbooks for secondary education are problems whose resolution has not come to an understanding. The use of Albanian as a minority language is regulated by the municipality's statutes, but is not respected when it comes to state institutions. In addition to the fact that the government of the Republic of Serbia has adopted a programme of measures to employ 63 Albanians in state institutions in 2010, this has not been achieved today. The passiveisation of citizens' residence is also a serious problem that can cause an artificial change in the image of the population in these municipalities. All our demands to end this dangerous phenomenon have not come to an understanding. We're asking the government for help for economic development, because the unemployment rate is about 70%. The co-ordination body, rather than being a bond between local and central authorities, plays the role of arbitration for local changes, often with the full exclusion of the will of local authorities. The seven-point plan, which the government of the Republic of Serbia adopted in July 2013, in addition to the fact that it contains requirements that are absolutely compatible with domestic law, but also EU law, is not realised. The media representation of the Albanian minority in state television is zero. As a representative of Albanians in this legislative house, from the new government, which we sincerely hope will be turned towards full membership in the EU and through this process of European integration create a climate in which minorities will feel safe and in which they will be able to exercise all the rights provided for by European legislation. We will support this program and this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1404	Thank you. Now it's Sasa Radulovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1405	Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, yesterday and today you could see at this session that the MP group was done with no insults. The only one who insulted this room was the prime minister. He insulted everyone. They repeat some of his words, it starts by answering everyone with the utmost respect, and after that he says things, such as – more nonsense I haven't heard, you see that you don't know, so pointless that it's not worth commenting on, they're scrambling, they're robbing, they're being set up for the video, you don't have politics, you don't work for 200 euros, and you work much less at the expense of the state and many...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1406	You've spent your time with your MPs. Thank you. The word has Enis Imamovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1407	Thank you, Your Honor. My fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the esteemed prime minister, as a representative of the Bosniaks, will try to raise confidence in the state and state authorities in this short time, as far as I am concerned. In the light of European integration, we have proposed all these steps to be integrated into the action plan, especially in its minority section for Chapter 23. Unfortunately, however, most of the proposals proposed by the Bosniak legitimate representatives by the government's working group, the task force for the drafting of the action plan, and I therefore take this opportunity to call on both the prime minister and the government members, who will be in charge of those areas, to complement the action plan to include all that is needed in order to address the problems that Bosniaks face. It was good to hear a little bit more about minority policy in the exposé and what the government is planning to do in the next period, about that. We were also interested in when it was planned to pass a roof minority law, because these three laws that currently regulate the area directly do not have any single criminal provision, so they are a list of...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1408	Thank you. Your time is up. Thank you, MP. Since the list of speakers is no longer registered for the word, before the search is concluded, I ask if those who have not applied their right to Article 96 want the word. Rules of Procedure? The word is Miladin Ševarlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1409	Article 107, the speaker at the National Assembly session, is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. I'm speaking directly to the Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic. In the last three days, you've been three times...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1410	It can't, it has to be done directly, there's no going back in time. I'm really sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1411	Wait, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1412	I know you wanted to sum up, but...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1413	Three times in three days he was telling the truth about...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1414	You shouldn't have brought that into the O.R. Drinks can't be brought into the O.R., so you better hide it. The word is Milan Lapčević. Here you go. Did you sign up to spend your time under article 96? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1415	Thank you. In the last two days in this room, there was neither a working nor an atmosphere of respect. Unfortunately, the atmosphere was not created by people who had something constructive to say at the expense of the future government's work programme, but much more by those who make up an absolute majority in the Serbian Parliament. I will tell you, Mr. Prime Minister, something that will not be told to you by those of you who applaud you, because they must not tell you, and I believe that they will benefit you much more. I really don't have anything personal against you, and I really appreciate your dedication and the effort you've made to write such extensive exposés. I don't even have a problem commending some of the good things you've done in the past, which isn't too much. I was talking about it yesterday. I invite you to step out of your virtual everything that you live in and listen to others, look a little bit at their eyes, look a little bit out of their corner, it won't hurt you. You'll be able to see things more objectively, because it's not all as pink as they represent you, as you think. You were talking about media freedom in the exposé, and no one's gonna tell you that you're out of media freedom. None of the reporters are allowed to ask you any wrinkling questions at press conferences. When a man dares, he gets the scariest insult on your part. God forbid anyone should say or write about who does the most profitable jobs in Serbia, who asphalts, who has suspicious business with RTB, who buys prestigious restaurants in Belgrade, who humanises public enterprises. According to your stories, you're also contradictory. You say you've prevented tycoons from robbing Serbia through wind parks and fiding tariffs, and you're proposing the director of the largest company that has the largest wind farm for your minister. You represent yourself as a Democrats, and you set yourself up value courts, you don't tolerate any kind of disagreement with your opinion, you honor others to hate you, because they criticize you for doing something wrong, and that's exactly how you behave. You react bitterly when you don't like something, insult, humiliate, speak for anyone who says otherwise that she's ignorant, that she understands nothing, that she's unemployed, and you don't give him a chance to answer that. You're talking to Serbian citizens that they're lazy, that they don't have a entrepreneurial spirit. For you, the only thing that seems to be allowed and desirable is that all like Andersen we admire “the king’s new suit” and that everyone applauds you. No matter what insults, lies and humiliation...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1416	Thank you. You've wasted your time...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1417	... Subtracting words through attempts...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1418	... MP groups plus...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1419	... to forbid us to speak. We won't support you, because this government is the government of Washington and Brussels... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1420	Thank you. The word is Bosko Obradović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1421	Dear fellow Members of the People, here at the end of this debate about the new Government of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to say a few more words about its composition. I've been doing a serious analysis of the government's composition, and I've determined that they're equally represented politicians from the '90s, and they're the two-thousands that have ruined us over the past 25 years. We have five ministers, watching parties that used to belong in the '90s. That's one from the JUL, three radicals and three from the SPS. That's a total of seven. We have six DOS members. We have two from the DSS, one from the DS, one from the G17 plus, one from the majority minister, Mr. Ljajic, who was just not yet the patriarch of the SPC and one member of the Zemun clan, which I also believe belongs under the DOS. So, Mr. Wolf, there is no new government, you are the government of the continuity of breaking and breaking this country. You've gathered ministers. Your two ministers are members of the East Bridge trilateral commission, the semi-secret and secret organizations that work for foreign interests and cannot work for the interests of the Serbian state in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This is Mrs Zorana Mihajlovic and Mrs Ana Brnabic. In that sense, of course, no matter what time you turn off, the rest is to tell you next. We supported your fight against crime and corruption, but she is gone and Miskovic has funded the government... (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: I have six minutes left. [[Disabled microphone.]] )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1422	No, he'll check it out. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: I have six minutes left. I beg you for peace and quiet. I give my word to Alexander Wolf. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1423	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I couldn't answer to an organized and horrendous video shoot, even though I tried all the time to answer everyone and to respect everyone. Look, ladies and gentlemen, I'll start from this last one at the end of this debate and that's what Serbia is about. That's what it's about. Those who do something all the time will be accusing others of it. The predecessors spoke of insults and demeaning. They said I said this -- I can see that you don't know, quote, they're scrambling, you don't have politics, and this is pointless. Those were the hardest words I've said. Imagine! Imagine, it's an insult, it's something that's offensive. I repeat, the syntagms I used and which are offensive are – I see you don't know, they're scrambling, you don't have politics, and this is pointless. And a moment ago, no one even interrupted someone who spoke to a member of the government about being a Zemun clan. If I were to say what kind of clan this is, you'd say I'm a dictator, the one who spoke to someone else. Then you'd say I'm a dictator, that I'm not giving anyone any rights, that I'm like this or that, because you're allowed to do anything, and we're not allowed to defend ourselves. My greatest sin, and I've seen it in the last three days, at a time when we've worked hard, listened to everything, listened to everyone, entered into debates, debates, came to the conclusion that this greatest sin is precisely because I tried only to answer them, and what I'm actually forbidden to answer. Which actually must be the truth of someone buying prestigious restaurants. And who buys prestigious restaurants? And what restaurant? You mean that you've lied countless times on all social networks, fooled the public, so I'm waiting for you all the time to say that, to get out, something you can't get out to say. Because you think when you tell one lie a hundred times, it'll become true. And you're not ashamed when you say it, you're still giving us sermons about how someone demeans you, and the worst lies you bring here, the worst slanders, the worst insults on people's behalf, at the expense of people's families. Who buys those restaurants? Who buys those restaurants for mentioning the prestigious? Let me examine, let me examine, for you have come to examine, so much for your truth and so much for your courage, so much for your truth. (Milan Lapcevic, from the scene: What is it that affects you? So it hits me because you wanted to say something you shouldn't say, and you're a coward, you meant to say you were buying my brother. He didn't buy any and he won't. And you're a coward, as you can see. And I'm not a coward, I'm not a coward, I'm allowed to tell you what you're saying in the towers, I'm allowed to tell you what you're saying and what lies you're making. He's never been to that restaurant you mention, let alone buy it. And that's the difference between people who have honor and face and people who are cowards who can't even mention a name but wait for a name to mention when they come out behind these doors. That's why I'm not afraid of you, because I'm honest, because I don't have 1,609.000 euros or a dollar tax, because my brother didn't buy me a single restaurant, because I never bribed anyone and nobody ever bribed me, and that's why I'm not afraid of you! None of you! I've been listening to you for three days. No prime minister has ever listened to his opposition for three days and answered, worthy, honest and responsible! Never a prime minister in Serbian history. I'm a dictator because I don't give you the state lottery of Serbia to rob, I'm a dictator because I don't let you destroy Serbia like you did before, I'm a dictator because I know how much you don't know, and that's an insult. I'm a dictator because I know those who would ban foreign investment in Serbia from destroying it within 24 hours. I'm a dictator just because I dared answer you and because your lies can't just go away, if nothing, they can't go through without my answer. That's my biggest problem. Someone threw me from my colleagues here, when they said some, I'd use their vocabulary and terms, so they wouldn't say they were offended -- chasing like Pokemons around town, accidentally happened in the National Assembly, and they don't even know where they are anymore, and they were telling me at some point things, someone must have repeated 14 times a "mandator" in a minute. That kind of obsessive approach and hatred for someone just analyze it, you'll see that you've never seen it. You weren't the subject of government. No one in the government has ever been a subject to you. The government program wasn't the subject or the target, you weren't even talking about the exposé. You talked all the time, tried to talk about me and show that kind of hate and the President of the Republic of Tomislav Nikolic. No program, no talk about anything. I also want to thank those opposition MPs who spoke about the program and from whom I learned something and with whom I exchanged information and knowledge. I want to thank you, MPs, most of you in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, for fighting, for being dignified, for not leaving this assembly, for not using false arguments and for having enough strength to bear all that you knew was neither true nor similar to the National Assembly, in this high house it was. As Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia in the past term, as prime minister today, I call on the MPs to vote today on their conscience, to vote for Serbia, Serbia's future, Serbia's relieved of the kind of political, ideological divisions in which many would return it, which would mean the mud of conflict, mud and mud of problems that would make it difficult for us to get out of. We need to work, not work, and our citizens are worth it. The fact that some of you are not worthy, so you don't like it, don't transfer it to the citizens. It's just a projection. Just because I know some of you and know how valuable you are doesn't mean that citizens aren't worth it. The system made us that way, and that's why we're changing the system today. You're talking about some kind of pink situation in Serbia that I've been talking about. I haven't talked about it for a second. All the time I was talking, talking to the people, knowing how hard people are living, and knowing how necessary it is to make an incomparably faster power, incomparably higher growth rates than we had until yesterday. And we're doing it slowly. This is the best year ever, as we have managed to settle public finances. You're saying that journalists can't ask me a question, I'm the only one that journalists ask every question in this country and I answer every question, and when the press comes to you, some of you say - stay away from me, you're not journalists. You insult them every day, but you're allowed to, because when you say someone's not a journalist, then I don't suppose they're allowed to be a journalist. It's my job to answer every reporter, and I answer to every reporter. It's my job to answer every man, and I've answered every man. Don't take away just one right from me, just one right that I didn't deny you, but I respected it more than any other prime minister in Serbian history since the establishment of a multiparty system. More than anyone else. Never, nor Zoran Djindjic, nor Vojislav Kostunica, nor Mirko Marjanovic sat down for two or three days. They didn't sit and answer for two hours, so I'll tell you the truth. And I sat here patiently and patiently and all the time answering. Don't deny us the right to answer and you won't force me to shut up, I won't shut up because my conscience is clean, because I know what we're doing, how much we're doing, but even more than that, I know what we've done, what kind of program we have, and people see that the results exist. And to humiliate and destroy everything, so it's always the easiest. As for the team of people, you also spoke ill of Dusan Vujovic today. I asked Dusan Vujovic for only one answer, show me a major financial expert in Serbia. I didn't get that answer from anyone. (Vojislav Seselj, from town: Krstic. ) Krstic is not in the country. Krstic is a great expert and Krstic is an outstanding man, but he is unexperienced in relation to Vujovic. A remarkable man and an extraordinary finance minister. There's a lot of them. I'm about to see what kind of suggestion you've made, what you know and what you're capable of. (Vojislav Seselj, from the post: When I am a prime minister. That means never Mr. Seselj. I was listening to the story of the National Museum. It's true that the works are late, but they've begun. I expected the mandate to last for three or four years, and in that time it would be over. It'll be over in 540 days, slightly less than 537 days. It'll be over right after decades of collapse. What I didn't understand was you were talking about decommissioning the construction industry. The construction industry has just risen and it is the bearer of our growth in the first six months of this year. The construction industry started to rise and it tells me how much you didn't want to know about it either. You were talking about RTB, you didn't tell the people that in the first six months finally after I don't know how many years of major failure we have an EBD of six million. The first time we have something positive, but it's not worth talking to who doesn't want to hear it and see, who only wants to hear it negatively. I see a lot of negative things, more negative than you've listed in your presentation. On the other hand, what marked this debate would say is, above all, the story of workers, employees in Serbia and investors. I heard foreign investors weren't welcome and we didn't need them. I just didn't hear one thing - to ensure the growth of gross domestic product. I just couldn't hear it from anyone. I asked that question several times, as well as the question of buying these prestigious restaurants, as well as the question of which country I was in, without visiting Serbs, I asked countless questions, you didn't even try to give me an answer. Of course, it's mine to provide answers, which is why I've tried to answer every question of yours and the one that made sense specifically, and even the ones that didn't always make sense. My job as Prime Minister is to put up with all this, to listen to everything and answer everything. That's how I'll behave in the future. You should know right away, if some of them thought I was going to run away from the debate and at the monthly level, the parliamentary issues, I'm not going to run away. I will visit you often and it seems to me that the arguments always convince most of the parliament and much more importantly, most of the citizens of Serbia that the policy we see is right and at this point certainly the best, and always ready to accept the suggestions and suggestions of all others who want to support such a policy. I am particularly proud of the fact and I am grateful to you, Mr Hasani, for the numerous representatives of the national minorities who will support the election of the new Government of the Republic of Serbia, because we have not negotiated any trade, anything. This shows that some new winds are blowing in the Republic of Serbia and I want to say today that not only Serbs, but all other citizens of Serbia, Hungary, Bosniak, Albanian, Roma, member of any other Slovak, Romanian, any other national community in Serbia should feel the same legal obligation and rights as all other Serbian citizens and no difference will the Government of the Republic of Serbia make to our citizens. The only thing I ask all MPs, we will take care of the economy and there will be results much better, there is one big problem that we can face, which is the global political crisis and the regional political crisis, would ask all the MPs in the National Assembly of Serbia to take care of their country, to be on the side of their country, and we will look to avoid the side and be on our own and to get out of all the problems. I'm telling you today, I'm not sure that's going to be possible. In the end, what I promise both to you and what I promise to the citizens of Serbia, and you have seen that in the most difficult circumstances, I have managed to say, pure cheeks every time, I don't know if there will be a change in government, it is possible that it will be. It's no big deal. On every best team in the world, people change. It's possible that the prime minister will change as well. You never know that either. What is very important is that while we are working together and while we are in Germany's 11 I am confident that we will work honestly, that we will work responsibly and that we will work in the interests of the citizens of Serbia. Serbian citizens can expect sacrifice, can expect commitment, can expect industriousness, and if we get your trust as early as 6:30 tomorrow will be the first session of the government, after which I visit the Austrian office. I want to thank you again for a good debate. As you can see, most of the problems have been chosen by the government in 6.30 hours. No minister is coming. In any case, I want you to adopt as many good laws as possible in this conference as possible for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia will respond to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and will do everything possible to make the citizens of Serbia feel and enjoy something better living standards, but in any case, Serbia is on the right track and we will have in the most part, primarily on the economy of positive trends and I am convinced that people in Serbia will have to appreciate it. Thank the citizens of Serbia for their support. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your support.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1424	Dear Members, I thank you once again. Dear MPs, let me just finish the session. I thank the Prime Minister, all the candidates for the Government of the Republic of Serbia who spent three days with us, especially the Prime Minister, because he really answered every question and spent three days with us, showing that he really respected us, respected the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, and that he listened carefully to everything the MPs had to say to him no matter how painful and ugly it was sometimes. I am concluding this search, and since the National Assembly has carried out a search on the only item on the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 270(1). I schedule the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on 11 August 2016 as a day for voting on the government programme, the election of presidents and government members. We will approach the vote immediately, at 16 o'clock and 55 minutes. So, in a few minutes, we're just about to prepare the voting table and call vote. We'll start in a few minutes. [[after breaks]] We can begin, honourable MPs. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, before we move to a decision, we need to determine the quorum. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 194 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Before we move on to a decision on the sole item of the agenda of this session, I remind you that in Article 91, paragraph 1. The rules of procedure provide for the minutes of the previous session to be adopted by the end of the next session of the National Assembly. Since we have determined that most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from the previous session. We're moving on to a decision on the record. I am voting on the minutes of the first session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, held on 3 June and 22 June 2016. Please press the corresponding key. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 155, against – two abstentions – four, 57 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority votes the first session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, held on June 3, 6th and 22nd this year. Before we move on to a decision on the sole item of the agenda of this session, it is necessary that the Assembly, acting in accordance with Article 103(6) of the Rules of Procedure, should be appointed. The Rules of Procedure, which were made known about the violations of the Rules of Procedure, were referred to during the sitting by the MPs. We're moving on to a decision. National MP Bojan Pajtic, at a session on 9 August, at 14 hours and nine minutes, pointed to a violation of Articles 86, 1 and 2. Rules of Procedure. Please decide whether or not the said Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 39, against – four abstentions – there are no, 178 MPs did not vote. I find that the Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, at a session on August 10th, at 16 hours and 53 minutes, pointed to the violation of members 107th and 108th. Rules of Procedure. Please decide if the specified members are injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 33, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 188 MPs. I find that the Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Sasa Radulovic, at a session of 11 August, at 10 o'clock and 48 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 109. Rules of Procedure. Please decide whether or not the said Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 38, against – seven abstentions – there is no vote, there is no vote of 177 MPs. I find that the Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Saša Radulovic, at a session of 11 August, at 12 hours and 34 minutes, pointed to a violation of Articles 107, 107, 1 and 2. Rules of Procedure. Please decide whether or not the said Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for –35, against – three abstentions – there are no, there are no 184 MPs. I find that the Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search on a candidate for Prime Minister, the Government Programme and candidates for members of the Government, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 270(2), The Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly on the Government Programme and the election of the Prime Minister and members of the Government decide in general by a secret vote, unless it decides to vote publicly. If the National Assembly decides to vote publicly, it shall be voted by a roll call. I propose that the National Assembly vote in public on the government's programme and the election of presidents and members of the government - by calling out the MPs. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 154, v – 36, with abstentions – no, no, 33 MPs voted. I find that the National Assembly has decided to vote publicly on the Government Programme and the election of the Prime Minister and members of the Government – by calling. Since the National Assembly has decided to vote publicly on the Government Programme and the election of the Prime Minister and members of the Government – by calling, I remind you that at the same time the National Assembly is voting on the programme of the Government and the election of the Prime Minister and members of the government as a whole, most of the votes of all the MPs. I'm putting on a vote by the Government Programme and a proposal for the president and members of the government, as a whole. We approach the vote by calling out the MPs. The secretary will read the names, I'm saying it for the new MPs because there are a lot of them, and you have to say whether you're in or out. I'm asking the Secretary General, or the Deputy Secretary, I don't know how you agreed to make a call to the MPs in the alphabetical order of the last name and record their statements. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1426	Alexic Miroslav – against Antić Aleksandar – for Arsenović Konstantin – for Arsic Veroljub – for Atlagić Prof. Dr. Marko – for Babić Vlado – for Bijatović Dušan – for Barišić Dragan – for Bauer Dr Ivan – for Bačevac Dr. Muamer – for Belačić Aleksandr – against Bečić Mr. Igor – for Bijan Milen – for Blažić Marko – for Blažić Branislav – for Božinović Žarko – for Bogdanović Goran – for Božavić Bošan – for Christmas Nenad – for Božović Balša – for Božić Branić – for Božinić Dubravko – for Boža Živić against Dr. Miljan – for Bošković – against Broz Josip – for Buković – for Žalić Slavić – for Žović Slavić – for Velić Dragarović against Dragović against Dragnović – Dragnović against Dr. Dragnović – Dr. Dr. Dragnović – Dr. Dragović – Dr.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-11-0.u1427	After we've made the vote by calling the MPs, I'm closing the vote. Now I'm setting a short break of ten minutes to count the votes and tell you the result. [[after breaks]] I ask the MPs to take their seats and announce the results of the vote. Dear MPs and MPs, allow me to officially announce the results of the vote. Of the 225 MPs who joined the vote for the proposal, 163 MPs voted. 62 MPs voted against the proposal. There were no abstentions. There were 24 MPs absent. Since 163 MPs voted in favour of the government programme and the proposal for presidents and members of the government, representing most of the number of MPs, I find that the National Assembly adopted the Government Programme and elected the Government in the proposed composition. Allow me to congratulate the President, the Vice-Presidents and the Government for their election on your behalf and on my behalf. Dear MPs, I now set a break of an hour and 15 minutes, so that the elected members of the government and we here are prepared for the solemn oath. So the solemn oath will be held at 19.00 hours.
