ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u7986	I thank the president. I have two questions I'd like to ask you today. First it was sent to the minister of justice and refers to the number of courts...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u7987	Just a little quieter to hear from your colleague. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u7988	Thank you. I'm interested in what, how many courts have accounts in the blockade because of the various debts they have to lawyers in their official capacity and to the experts, etc. The reason why I ask that is because this raises the next question, and that question is – how do these courts pay off their employees' wages if their accounts are blocked? The second question was actually raised by something the prime minister said yesterday. He answered the question to the finance minister, whether this phenomenon and economic indicator and telling the minister that in two years we managed to achieve the goal we had outlined that would be achieved three years ago. Does this mean that the Retirement Act will be abolished? The prime minister answered something very disturbing. He said that pensions will be increased to those who are the poorest, that they will have more pensions than ever and then he said sentences – yes, my father and mother will have something smaller, but the poorest will have significantly greater pensioners. I don't mind that, I think it's fairer and more correct, especially in the conditions we had at the time, in terms of the economic crisis. The prime minister's opinion that his parents have too much retirement is his private matter. He can arrange with his parents, that if he thinks they haven't earned their pensions fairly, that they give them to poor pensioners, that they give them to humanitarian purposes, that they pay some bills or that they already have to regulate what he thinks his parents have too many pensions in another way. However, I am concerned about whether it means that the prime minister believes that pensioners who had large pensions before the cuts should not be paid back, because the differences that existed between these pensions, according to him, are unfair, unfair and unfair, as he said. If that is the case, the prime minister must know that he has no right to such a thing. Pensioners earned their pensions during the time they spent doing the jobs they were employed in. For decades, they have made a valuable payment to the Fund from which they should receive these pensions and cannot be prime minister, because it is unfair for someone to have a large pension, and for a small one, now to talk about only those who are the poorest will be raised pensions, and for those who, according to his assessment, have large pensions, these pensions will not even be returned to the level before they are reduced. Of course, this issue is accompanied by our question, when will be abolished the Law on Temporary Pension Reduction, since it can't be very logical that every day tells us that we're doing better than ever, that yesterday both the Prime Minister and the Finance Minister are telling us all day how our results are phenomenal and how we've come out of the crisis, how our citizens will soon feel it, and that there is still a need to cut pensions, and that there is then a way to meet what we require, and that is not only to get our pensions back to a level that was before the level of reduction, but also to return to the pensioners everything that has been taken away from them during these special measures. So there are a few questions, first – will and when will pensions be returned to the level before the reduction? Will pensioners be compensated for what was taken from them at the time of the reduction? And what, in accordance with the Law, and not in accordance with the Prime Minister's opinion, will be with those pensioners who had, according to his assessment, excessive, unfairly large pensions?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u7989	Thank you. Marinika Tepic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u7990	I thank the president. My first question, I refer to Minister of Finance, Mr Dusan Vujovic, with concrete data, in fact I ask the question on behalf of concerned citizens of Pančev, particularly patients and employees of our city's so-called state pharmacy. The specific question is: should the Apotheka Pancheva be found and recognized in the local budget, which, after this new law that we are waiting for these days to be adopted, should be adopted at the level of the city of Pancheva? In fact, Apotheka Pancevo has been in extremely large debt for many years now, and has been blocked for months, employees do not have regular earnings, as well as months. However, the town of Panchevo, as the founder of Apotheca Panchevo, absolutely does not recognise this institution in its budget, so that it could in any way and directly help and care for itself as the founder of this establishment. The town of Pančevo is only ageing as much as the City of Pančeva Assembly elects members of the Supervisory Board and director of the Apotheka Pančevo, therefore, management structure, but everything that actually involves taking care of this important institution does not execute the town of Pančevo. According to me, the opinion of the state auditor who was staying and controlled the work of Apotheka Pancheva, during the immediate period, is that Apotheka Panchevo should be recognised in the city budget for 2017. But the city's eyes, in my town of Panchev, don't think it should be applied, moreover, for months they've been asking the pharmacy employees to prove that the city is their founder. I therefore conclude this question by summing up to the Minister of Finance, which is whether the Apotheca Pancheva should be recognised in the budget of the city of Pancheva for 2017? The following question I refer to the Minister of Education, Mr. Sarčević, and I am curious as to which way, based on which data, based on which research, case analysis, came up with an initiative to lift the third class of subjects of physical education, selected sport? Given that all professional associations are both in the field of pedagogy and in the domain of physical education are opposed to this initiative, and we should know that all of us who are elected here in the National Assembly, because the subject of physical education is not by chance the only subject besides mathematics and native language that has continuity from first to eighth grade, not to create in the course of physical education of top athletes and Olympics, but to prepare a healthy and working-age population tomorrow. The subject of physical education is the issue of public health, not the creation of top athletes, and in this sense, the European Parliament has established a special commission for education, which, at the level of EU Member States, through its recommendations insists that all classes dealing with physical education increase. For example, in Hungary and Slovenia, recent initiatives have increased to five hours a week, so every working day. The students have a course in physical education, and for example, schools in the Russian Federation have raised their physical class to three from two hours. On that basis, I wouldn't say, at least as far as I'm concerned, and I can see anyone professionally dealing with this problem, that there's no reason for the third class of physical education to be abolished, because that's why our students will primarily be damaged. Official statistics from the Republic of Serbia show that half of us in this room will die from cardiovascular disease and blood vessel disease. The first measure of prevention is physical activity that children learn from the first grade of primary school. And also a question to the youth ministers and sports and health ministers -- were they asked for an opinion on this initiative to abolish the third class of physical education, the chosen sport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u7991	Thank you. The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u7992	I have a question for the president of the National Assembly, Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, and I demand a written answer. Why hasn't she intervened according to her prologues when she found out about the serious incident, perhaps the hardest ever since this National Assembly existed, I even think it's a major incident than those fights that happened here in the halls or attempts to fight in the hall itself? When the board of directors of the Committee, Aleksandar Martinovic, met, he did not give a word to any MP. The first came from MP Nemanja Sarovic, deputy head of the SRS parliamentary group and member of the Committee. He didn't get the word. There were other MPs who had not received a word, there were about 20 MPs. Martinovic continued his session by reading the agenda item and immediately asking who was in favour, who was against it? And that's how that express session ended. Afterwards, his claim or claim made by someone from his party appeared in public that one of the opposition MPs was cursing his father or mother. That doesn't show any footage. I've looked at all the videos. Even if it did, it is more important to respect congregation procedures than to protect fathers and mothers from sexual endangerment and harassment. The most important thing is the congregation procedure, and this didn't happen. No one's seen it, no one's heard it, no one's seen it. Maybe sometime after the session, he met with someone on the bus or on a tram, and that's where he cursed his mother. Anyway, we filed an initiative, us from the SRS for his shift. It's signed by five other MPs or their deputies. Martinovic did not want to schedule a session with such a agenda claiming that the deputy members of the Committee did not have the right to sign the paper. If I've been away, it's only natural for my deputy, Milorad Mircic, to sign it. You don't think he'd sign anything against my will. If Pajtic was quit, someone from his party signed it. It's so inappropriate to play the role of parliament. You know, there's a strange process going on in this House, the weaker the opposition, the more the government becomes, the more blasphemy, and little by little, democracy. What bothered Martinovic to let all MPs say what they had and then move on to the vote? He had a two-thirds majority behind him, and that violence, that haughtiness is a terrible problem. I can, I can, I will, I can, I can, I can, I can, I can, I can, I can, I can, I can, I can, I can, I can, I can, I can, I You know, you can step on the opposition in parliament, but it's hard for you without opposition. When there's no opposition, it's scary. You yourself create conditions for something like this to happen. Respect the opposition the way Nikola Pasic said, in which you want to be respected when you are once again the opposition. Don't get carried away with that day. The Dosmanians thought they'd stay in power for 200 years, so they left in no time. You deserve that the future power, that the future ruling majority and you have a correct relationship when things change one day. If you don't do that, we're not gonna keep in this assembly some sort of vengeful mood. Let's go get them, they're after us, so, come on. Let's verbally compete. We're not able to do this, because we're constantly denied for replicas, for observations, for this, for that. Yesterday, the prime minister spoke 20 minutes each of his MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u7993	Time, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u7994	So this is a question to the president of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u7995	You want a written answer?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u7996	A written answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u7997	I can't answer that the opposition is weak. I can't do that in writing or in oral terms. That's your claim.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u7998	I'm not asking for that answer, I'm asking for an answer to the situation around the Administrative Board.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u7999	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8000	I would like to thank the Honorable President. I would like to ask a few questions to the Ministry of Agriculture, the Veterinary Administration, as we are witnessing that several years ago a number of diseases occur that are very present here in Serbia. The first question I would ask - what is going on with the vaccination against bluetongue, because we are witnessing that in 2015 there was a blue language in southeastern Serbia where the vaccination was made and wherever the vaccination was done there is now no bluetongue. It's an infectious disease that affects both sheep and goats and cows, and we all advocate livestock. The second question, nodural dermatitis or lumpyness of cattle, is whether the vaccination is complete, whether vaccination against this infectious disease will be done in the next period, because we are also witnesses that we are putting a large accent on the development of livestock farming, but without a strong veterinary management, without a strong veterinary service, I am sure we will not have much livestock. One more question about this part, bird flu, avian influenza. A few years ago, we had a problem with the bird flu. Now it's happening again in our area. I wonder if there are any doubts about avian influenza and whether the veterinary service is following it and in what way? It should be on time regulated in time and prepared not to get into a situation so that tomorrow we are surprised by this disease that is already dangerous to the livestock. One more thing, very important, and as far as the Department of Veterinary Affairs is concerned, I can only remind my fellow Members and citizens of Serbia that the veterinary work and the service was destroyed after the catastrophic privatisation that was made after 2000 so that a large number of municipalities do not have a veterinary service, there is no veterinary station and the situation is very bad. I hope that we will all give more meaning together to the Veterinary Administration, the Veterinary Service, because we are witnessing that without a strong veterinary service we do not have a strong livestock industry, and without strong livestock, I am sure there is no development of agriculture. The veterinarians, the people who were in the field, showed in the best light how to work, how to fight with all his heart, all his strength to protect animal health, and thus protect the health of all humans. The question is – will the Veterinary Administration be given a greater opportunity to develop a veterinary profession, to help veterinarians in municipalities where there is no veterinary cell. I hope you have the opportunity to work there to protect animals in the best way. Once again, I thank all veterinarians, veterinary technicians in Serbia who have contributed to the protection of our animals, which also protects the health of our people. A large number of institutes, with a special accent, can praise the Veterinary Specialist Institute in Nis, who has advocated, who has fought and who has managed to protect our animals maximumly in this part of Southeast Serbia, to be vaccinated and we will, I am sure, work in the next period. That's one set of questions. Another set of questions would be the same to the Ministry of Agriculture, but it is specifically related to medicinal plants, to development, to the collection of medicinal plants, because, I think, a great opportunity for all of us in agriculture is the production of herbs. Therefore, I am sure that the competent Ministry of Agriculture, headed by Minister Nedimovic, will have much more hearing for this part, because we are witnessing that Bela Palanka, that Srljig, that these surrounding municipalities have a great chance of developing that part of agriculture. We've got a lot of people working on it. Let's say in the season, when harvesting medicinal plants, over thousands of people are engaged in Srljig and the White Palanca and all these municipalities, and something else is very good, which is great and this law gives the opportunity to work and work relationships, gives the possibility and obligation to the employers to make the people, these pickers who do it, to be registered, to be health insurance. That's another big plus for people who do that work. We've got some problems...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8001	Thank you. Time, fellow Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8002	... But I've been talking to Secretary of State Stan Bozovic, and I've already gotten some things in the process to get rid of them. I'd like to thank you again...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8003	I thank you, Mr. Miletic. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8004	I thank the chairman. My question, which I ask, concerns the Minister of Energy and the Director of the EPS. Yesterday we had a chance to listen to the prime minister about how the budget that was in front of the MPs is best, that it was a deficit-free budget, that in Serbia it was a well-being, that public enterprises were paying dividends to the state account, that there was no political employment, that this was the historic budget, etc. I believe this is the best, but probably the best because it's the best in the last five, because you in this House need to adopt the fifth budget in a row. So it would be a shame if you hadn't learned to make each of those budgets better than the last one. My question was initiated by just the prime minister who said yesterday that the EPS 500 million is at the expense of the public company. Saying that rarely any state in the region today has so much funds in its account. I ask the question of the Energy Minister and the EPS Director - is it true that the 10 days bloc on Tent B does not work, that Serbia loses 600,000 euros a day because of this, to import electricity because it is not invested in regular maintenance and refurbishment of the facility? So, 600,000 euros a day, the citizens of Serbia's money is being sponsored by someone's ignorance, negligence, or a desire to show that we have money in our account, a desire to show that public enterprises are sponsoring the state register so that we can boast about a small deficit, that price should be paid by Serbian citizens from Serbia. So this is also related to an affair recently opened in the media, related to the biggest robbery, according to media reports, in the history of the EPS, where some decimals were mentioned and where the state-owned company "EPS Supply", lost tenders in favour of a private firm that received the largest electricity tendering systems. And now it implies something else, which is that it's likely that these affairs are inventing stray SNS within the EPS, so some who have one interest in the ESM, some who have other interests in the EPS, and of which only harm suffers the EPS as a business and employees of the EPS, as well as all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So, this EPS scam and the practical reduction of EPS value can't be good for anyone, but that's also the answer to another finding made by the prime minister yesterday, which is that there's no party employment either. This is the answer to another finding made by the prime minister yesterday, which is that there is no party employment. The second question is, how many of the entry into force of the Public Sector Employment Prohibition Act are people employed in the EPS, EPS companies, in all branches across Serbia? So that's where we'll see how many people are employed, and all those people who are employed in the EPS are exclusively employed by party belongings, from cleaning lady to director, through selected agencies and through all those people who are tied and co-operate directly or indirectly with the EPS. This staff policy is not only about EPS, but also about other public enterprises and how it's hard to find a corner of how to attack the budget because it's very good, it's about angles, only that you want to present the budget as it suits you, not as real as it is, and even when you're calling for the evaluations of the Fiscal Council, you're not talking criticism of the Fiscal Council, you're saying praise. Therefore, Serbia and Serbia's citizens are paying the price because of the haughty and unreformed public enterprises. You cut pensioners, you reduce employees, you reduce farmers, you reduce cops, you reduce resources to separate soldiers, but that's why public enterprises continue to boast after five years of your rule. The EPS is also preparing a new system of systems for raising coefficients to directors, but the workers and employees are shrinking, and this is the most reduced in "Colubari" because you probably cannot forgive the sins of "Colubari" and its workers since 5 October 2000.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8005	Thank you. Time. Thank you. Bosko Obradović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8006	The Honorable President, the Honorable fellow Members of the People, helps all. The first question for the speaker of the assembly – when special sessions will be scheduled on the topical topics. Namely, the Dveri parliamentary group has so far submitted a request for 10 such sessions and I will read the topics that have not yet come to the National Assembly's agenda, although it is an obligation for the president of the Assembly to schedule them at least once a month, such as the government and ministers' obligation to come to the National Assembly at least once a month and respond to a special session on topical issues. This is what 10 topics we have so far run for - the security and economic-social situation in Serbia regarding the migrant crisis, international pressures on the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia regarding the negotiations and the situation in KIM, unresolved security issues related to foreign intelligence agents and agents and assassinations against high-level civil servants, the threat of economic food and health security of Serbian citizens against legal imports and the traffic of genetically modified food and seed, the privileged long-term lease of orans in Serbia by the German meat industry "Tenis", Serbia and NATO, the sale of agricultural land to foreign citizens since 1 September 2017, the suspension of the temporary suspension of mandatory military service, i.e. the return of regular military service, non-application and endangerment of Cyrillic as the official letter of the Republic of Serbia, and the problem of the birth and the population of Serbia. So, for the past two months, by breaking the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the Assembly has not scheduled any, and at least one month special session of the National Assembly is required for the current topic, and already 10 such sessions are waiting for their turn. The second question concerns in particular our request that the session on the topic of the current topic be the topic of Serbia and NATO, i.e. – what did Aleksandar Vukic talk to NATO Secretary-General a few days ago? Whether Alexander Vukic is introducing Serbia into NATO. No one knows what Mr. Stolterberg and Mr. Vukic were talking about, except we saw Vukic humbly thanking Stolterberg for expressing regret over the civilian innocent victims of NATO campaigns. So I ask Alexander Vukic to explain to us - who were the victims of NATO aggression not innocent? I remind Vukic that it was no NATO campaign or humanitarian intervention, but NATO's aggression against the sovereign country was carried out in an anti-legal way by violating international law. It was a crime against peace and humanity for which criminals should end up on the defendant's bench. I remind Vukic that Serbia also has the right to sue NATO and seek compensation. Did Vukic have the courage to ask NATO to acknowledge these facts? First of all, we ask the Minister of Agriculture, but also the Prime Minister, will the levies, i.e. the duration of customs protection for dairy producers, be abolished as of January 1st? Will the uncontrollable import of cheap milk be allowed again, thereby jeopardising our domestic milk production? That's, I'd say, a key question. The Farmers' Association has proposed that the Serbian government extend the customs protection period for milk producers, as well as that milk law be passed recently, which is absolutely supported by the Serbian Dvora Movement. An important issue as far as the former and current PIC workers are concerned, as well as all the other such small shareholders that have been damaged in the process of unfair and stealing privatisation since 2000 until today, when will the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the competent ministry take steps to prevent small shareholders, employees and retired workers of companies, who have been kidnapped in dirty privatisation, from paying at least dividends and intending to prevent majority owners from falsely showing final accounts, using holes in the law, from paying dividends to small shareholders and paying taxes to the state and people? Also, the question concerning Goran Knezevic, Minister of Business – how long did it come with the bankruptcy of the former giant Agricultural Combine from Smederev? Are all the creditors of the Agricultural Combine Godomine in bankruptcy calmed apart from the workers who stayed on the street? What about the property of the Agricultural Combine Godomine which is not registered as part of the bankruptcy mass, and it is a resort in Portorož, the resort of the Church in Croatia, the mini wine cellar in Macedonia, and that the workers of Godomin do not know what is wrong with this property until the day of today? To remind you, the agricultural combination of Godomin from Smederev was one of the largest combinations in the great Yugoslavia. After 2000, he owned an asset that was far valuable to creditors and was forced into bankruptcy, as well as 65 agricultural industrial combinations across Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8007	Time. Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8008	I thank you, President. Recently, this Assembly adopted the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence, a deep awareness of the fact that victims of violence should in no way be differentiated, because every victim of violence must have his own treatment in terms of absolute protection, regardless of whether it is an old person, whether it is children or, unfortunately, in most cases, women. I ask my question to the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Finance, precisely because of this introduction which, as I put it, I have made known. What's this about? It is about the fact that there is an initiative by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to find the very ones in the area of sensitive categories, which are victims of violence, they are single mothers, they are disabled persons, they are those who are in any way vulnerable or sensitive groups in our society. An example of such activity has already been initiated in Serbia, specifically in the Zlatibor County, and the fact is that the Women's Centre founded an association that has a tendency to further develop, where women from these sensitive categories are just working. The work is very interesting, it's about recycling waste textiles. The fact is that even many of us who sit in this home from time to time reject their wardrobe, or from time to time, through replacements, are free of the same. It is these centers, which are innovative centres for recycling textiles, that provide work, economic care and assistance to women in these sensitive categories, because they are creating a new product through recycling and processing that is then re-entering production. It is very important to give support and assistance to these very attempts. The justice ministry can do so in co-operation with other ministries in the government of the Republic of Serbia, because, through the application of a legal institute or criminal justice institute, the opportunity, which replaces a solution to delaying criminal prosecution for perpetrators with a minor degree of social danger, instead of criminal sanctions, and is a kind of criminal sanctions, imposes the obligation to pay cash for humanitarian purposes. It is from this fund that the Government of the Republic of Serbia can allocate a certain amount of money for such needs, for such centres or for future businesses. For the sake of the facts to be known, a recycling centre called "Retex" currently employs 15 women from sensitive categories, most of which are victims of violence and with severe consequences. Some of them are single mothers, some are disabled faces. At present, they need what they do for the work they do, which are machines that are precisely in the recycling function and which as such in one set, in one line, functionally involve meeting all their needs so that they can produce something that is very useful to raise to a satisfactory level, provide themselves with the existence and thus enable them to open the door to others. I think it's a good attempt to help in this sense exactly one such centre, and in Serbia there will be many. Furthermore, since I have already asked this question, I would like to ask another question concerning the Ministry of Energy. Is it possible for the Ministry of Energy to make a kind of record of socially endangered categories? People who, as social workers, are not able to pay for electricity, to credit their debts for high interest, and thus turn their duties into astronomically high amounts?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8009	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8010	Just one more sentence. Is it possible, in that sense, to help these very categories of persons by writing off the interest they are in charge of? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8011	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8012	Thank you. Dear citizens, ladies and gentlemen, pensioner Mile Delic has written 11 letters to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and asked him questions, but he has not received an answer, so I will ask a question instead using Article 287 of Position 4 and I hope the Prime Minister will answer this time to the pensioner. His question, or letter, is this: “Honesty, this is no longer my letter to you, but you, by old custom, when you do not have an answer that you can boast of your successes, be silent. I must present to you the fact that my January pension under your law has been reduced by 13.582 dinars. I have invested 185,406 dinars in your reforms so far. I wonder which one of us will have any idea of my investment, which you forced me to do with your criminal laws. I'm too old to welcome anything better. So you're forcing me to invest to make you feel better sometime. I don't think the economic-financial dictionary still has the right expression for that kind of investment that you've made me through your listeners. Me and part of the pensioners, who you've taxed with your law, are the only success of your reforms. You taxed people who were born before and when you were a teenager, they were a flower and cream society. I've now recognized that there is a certain degree of loyalty and envy for these people. How do I see your reforms? First you tried the Red Star, and you openly admitted that there was nothing you could do about it. Then you tried to arrest Miskovic, so when you saw that he was too tough, you gave up in silence. Then they remembered that there was no one to defend the pensioners and that there was enough money to show yourself as a reformer in front of the IMF. It is saddened that you and your ministers in the V public and in the TV cameras declare half-truths and gray propaganda in relation to the government towards the pensioners, especially the military. There are a large number of dissatisfied pensioners, they will soon visit you in a larger group and with transparency. I heard it's called a protest. Will you receive them and listen to them? I'm so mad at you, I won't even say hello to you at the end of the letter. “ In Belgrade, February 2016, pensioner Mile Delic. I demand that the Prime Minister, in accordance with Article 287, in writing within 15 days, answer why he did not answer the pensioner and when he will answer these questions. The second issue also goes to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. Yesterday, at a session of the Assembly, he demeaned the way many citizens of Serbia speak in the area of Cačka, Užica, where he made fun of the word "run", so the question of when he will apologize for such demeaning of people, then whether he will disrespect other citizens of Serbia, for example, who say "regulatory" and similar expressions. This is not appropriate for the Prime Minister. In Serbia, people speak in different ways, and we should respect it, not put on it and demean people in such a way. The third question concerns Serbia's Elektro Network. Unsatisfactory workers sent to the Movement There was a letter in which they warned you that the director of the Power Network for Management was building a hotel on Kopalnik, investing 150 million dinars and building an exclusive hotel that should have 390 square meters. This is the most expensive construction we know of in Serbia, where more than 3,000 euros are spent on building a resort for high-ranking power grid officials. The question for the Prime Minister is if he knows about this. If he knows, and we assume he knows, why didn't he stop this? To remind him, the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which he proposed to the National Assembly, provides for the state of Serbia to guarantee the 15m-euro power grids for credit. Couldn't that guarantee be less and not be built for party personnel put up by his best man in Serbia's Elektro networks this exclusive resort? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8013	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8014	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, first of all, I would like to say that I also received a letter from the former director of the Privatisation Agency, otherwise the great friends of Mr. Saša Radulovic, who asks me – is it possible that Mr. Sasa Radulović, as a national MP, does not know that the verdict was issued against Miroslav Miskovic and that the verdict was issued at the time when the responsibility for the leadership of the state took over the SNS? The lady is surprised and cannot come to her senses that someone who is a former minister and who is the current MP is so uninformed that she does not know that the verdict against the most powerful Serbian tycoon, which has been consumed by Serbian road companies from 2001 to 2012. I have another question for the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Justice. At a time when the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Defence, thanks to one wise economic policy, manages to acquire the most modern weapons for the Serbian military, including state-of-the-art planes and the state-of-the-art anti-aircraft defense systems, information has come from all citizens of the Republic of Serbia from the Centre for Forensic Research in Novi Sad, and this information refers to the tragic death of two soldiers at a separate military facility called Karas on 5 October 2004. According to a report by the centre, the two soldiers, the deceased Dragan Jakovljevic and Drazen Milovanovic, were killed on October 5th 2004. My question to the government of the Republic of Serbia, to the defence minister and to the minister of justice, is – did any knowledge of the murder of these two soldiers, at the time of the tragic death, have Boris Tadic, who was at the time the president of the Republic of Serbia and the former federal defence minister, what information about the death of these two soldiers was given by Vuk Sutanovac, the latter foreign minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, and what is the current, candidate for the president of the Republic of Serbia, who, according to the information that I have, only on the name of the daily for official travel abroad, spent 60 thousand euros of state money? So, I ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I ask the competent ministers to answer me – did those persons Boris Tadic, Dragan Sutanovac and Vuk Jeremic at the time when they were performing the most responsible state functions know and have information about that, according to the Information Centre for Forensic Research from Novi Sad, which they received by applying the latest 3D technology, did they know that these two doubles were killed during regular military service? I thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8015	Thank you. Since we've exhausted a list of those who can ask questions or ask for an explanation and a notice, we'll continue to discuss the agenda points in ten minutes, so 11 o'clock, just so all the members of the government can come forward so we can continue. They left the government, but let's not guess, let's make it ten minutes, let's pick it up at 11 o'clock. [[After a break.]] Dear MPs, we continue a joint principled and unified search on the proposals for acts in our agenda. I would like to inform you that Professor Zarko Obradovic has reported his absence at today's session. According to the schedule of Dvora, Bosko Obradović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8017	Respected citizens of Serbia, who watch this most important assembly session in the year when the draft budget is being considered for next year. This is a great time for the representatives of the most state government to face a very concrete and serious argument as to why this budget is bad and why everything the SNS has been doing for five years is one big fraud and a violation of all pre-election promises. In fact, the proposal for a 2017 budget is a continuation of the devastating, neoliberal economic policy of the SNS, which rests on the robbery of citizens and the destruction of the domestic economy for financing foreign investors and co-operation with the IMF. The government was to submit a proposal for a fiscal strategy to the National Assembly in October, and a draft of the Budget Law for next year in November. Why she didn't do it, benevolent Minister Dusan Vujovic revealed to us at the meeting of the Assembly Committee on Finance because she did not receive the IMF's permission. Does this mean, Mr. Vukic, that in Serbia the IMF decides, not the Government and the National Assembly? The government prepared, the minister said, a draft budget of 10 months, and gave the opposition one day to read 1400 pages, one day to make amendments. It's okay, we've had enough time, and that's where we showed that we're more capable than you of power. But why, Mr. Vukic, when this proposal for the 2017 budget is so good, you haven't given it much time to study. What exactly are you hiding? You're hiding first that there's no surplus in the budget. We all remember that all this year from all the small screens and front pages of the newspaper you've been breaking our brains with information that Serbia is in surplus. We couldn't live as well as we did, and then a deficit of 69 billion dinars. What happened to the surplus? Eat the cat. You constantly deceive this people, Mr. Wolfie. You're hiding how you saved money in your budget, robbing citizens by cutting wages and pensions, increasing taxes and excise taxes, thieving taxes, which you have now charged together for 2015 and 2016. You, the advances and strangers you favor here, take more than the Turks in your time. Your ruling regime, Mr. Vukicu, is increasingly similar to the semi-mafian regime of Milo Djukanovic, and I see here your great coalition, Chad, Beba, Milo and Vi. What else are you hiding from the citizens? You're hiding that you've given up the rationalization of the public administration, that there's no more layoffs for extra employees and that all your party parasites, which you've hired in the state administration and public enterprises, will remain in place. What happened to the story of stopping party employment? What happened to the promises that you would end unnecessary state agencies? What happened to fighting crime and corruption? Please state to me, Mr. Vukic, the name of a politician and a tycoon who has been in prison for several years on the basis of a judicial verdict, since you've been in power. He's gone. It was all a big con and a SNS lie. Five years from now, you haven't solved a single problem of state-owned enterprises that are huge losers. You have not solved the problem of surplus employees in the state administration, you have not solved the problem of the gray economy, you have not launched domestic production, but have therefore reduced subsidies to farmers and money to foreign companies that do not pay taxes on profits achieved in Serbia, but by falsely showing their bookkeeping, extra profits are made abroad. And you, Mr. Vukic, still dare to defend them, to have no tax evasion, and to catch the Serbian poor in fiscal accounts, while foreigners in Serbia steal billions. Banks, tear the skin off the back of Serbian citizens. The corrupt courts by the banks are silent. The National Bank of Serbia kneels. You have not solved the problem of citizens who have loans indexed in Swiss francs, but have therefore anticipated the sale of Telekom, EPS, Belgrade Airport, the PKK and medical banks. I remind you, Mr. Vukic, since 1 September 2017, foreigners have been able to buy agricultural land in Serbia, and that you have not yet stopped this disaster. It is your and Dinkic's economic policy, the sale of our natural and economic wealth and the surrender of Serbia's economic freedom into the hands of foreign monopolies. In your vision of Serbia, we will all work as slaves with a foreign boss, such as Tenis, because his coming to Serbia may be a German economic interest, but Mr. Vukic is not our domestic economic interest. Of course, the subsidies for the British IT "Endava" company stand in the budget and you lied to Serbian citizens, so when we caught you and discovered to the public that you were giving it back to foreigners and thus directly destroying the Serbian IT sector that rebelled against you, you had to stop, and now even if you were lying that it wasn't even planned even though it stands in the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8018	Could you be a little more polite? I understand you disagree with something, but don't be rude.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8019	Let's go, then with specific numbers. Your allocations for subsidies to foreign companies are greater than the full budget for health care in Serbia. Let me remind you, the SNS has been in power for five years and nothing has been done in those five years, or all pre-election promises have been broken. What are you in, Mr. Wolfe, different from the time of the DS? What makes you different from Mladjan Dinkic? No, you're the same. And, with this proposal for 2017, you continue to be in debt to the state abroad, the devastating co-operation with the blackmailing IMF, foreign support, not domestic firms, overcoming more than harmful evolution, military weakness, pensioner robbery, the humiliation of educators, you forget health workers, you destroy farmers, you don't solve the problem of the white plague. This is the only country in the world in which the military and the police strike. You've been in power for five years, Mr. Wolfie, what have you done? Give me a home bank you started or recovered. Give me an agricultural industrial combination that you've restored. Give me an agricultural cooperative you've formed. Oh, yeah, sorry, well, that's not the point of your authority. As you said yourself, he's the head of the World Bank, and you can't spend any of the money in your budget until you ask the IMF. Now, this is the biggest scandal, how can the president of an independent sovereign state be the boss of someone outside this country? The International Monetary Fund is certainly satisfied with your draft budget, Mr. Vucic, because you are new budgeting higher payments based on external debt service for the incredible 280 billion dinars. Have you tried asking for a write-off or debt reprogramme or Serbia needs to die for your IMF and your World Bank boss to live? Who do you work for, Mr. Wolfie? For the interest of the IMF? The World Bank? The European Union and NATO-A or the interests of citizens and the state of Serbia? If you were working for the interests of Serbian citizens, you'd be doing what your friend, Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban, did, and you can't do. Orban thanked the IMF for their co-operation and fired them from Hungary. All credits indexed in foreign currencies were transferred to foreign currency and thus stopped the bank robbery of citizens on currency clauses. He further taxed all foreign banks and insurance companies and protected the security of citizens, raising the wall that stopped the migrants' nest. What is essential for family policy, Orban founded the Ministry of the Family and today in Europe singles out the largest part of the budget for the most intelligent and progeny policy. And what did you do, Mr. Wolfie? Who has defended you from hiring more tax inspectors in five years of your authority, like Orban, and solving the problem of the gray economy. How many years does it take for you to do anything? You are also hiding that the revenue side of the budget will be corrected by continuing to rob the budget of local self-government. A truly brilliant economic thought. The income structure says that we are a country that continues to import more and more, because you have abolished all customs duties on imports of foreign goods and thus killed a domestic producer. Why, when you take out a loan from abroad, as a form of support for small and medium-sized enterprises, that loan goes through foreign banks that are being built into the business. Because you do not have domestic banks and because you are unable to create a state-owned investment bank that would invest exclusively in domestic economy and agriculture at favourable interest rates. Well, don't you, Mr. Vukic, think we all live in the pink world of your TV Pink, reality the show, and that we're all so naive that we don't notice that in the budget, pay attention to the respected citizens of Serbia, that you're reducing the budget of the National Assembly by 400 million, and you're increasing the budget of the Serbian government by 1.6 billion dinars. So the government is to spend even more money, and the Assembly to be even more humiliated. By 50% you reduced the transfer to the National Employment Service and thus admitted that it no longer makes any sense, because the SNS took over as a employment office. You are Mr. Vukic, the last Eurofanatic in Europe. You do not recognize at all the geopolitical changes in Europe and the world, and you look like those Serbs who remained communist and Yugoslav when communist Yugoslavia fell apart. Simply, time has run over you, as have your friends Tony Blair, Beyden, Bill and Hillary Clinton, Boyka Boris, Matthew Renty. What the famous song would say: “Now adios and who knows where and who knows when. ” What do we need, Mr. Vucicu, the Office for European Integration, which eats a billion dinars a year or what, as otherwise benevolent and yesterday a little nervous, Finance Minister Vujovic, 118 people only at the Ministry of Finance who are working on Eurointegration or an additional 200 million dinars for the Office for European Integration? How many people in your ministry and the entire government are working on better economic relations with Russia and China? Where's your relationship office with Russia? You, Mr. Vucic, are increasing the budget of the Ministry of Defense and is giving out 1.8 billion for our soldiers' participation in multinational operations around the world, and our borders are empty and insecure in times of the greatest migrant crisis and in new history. At the same time, you're reducing the military's weapons budget and military equipment. Well, that's really amazing. Are you reducing the military budget in this time of year? You have also allocated funds for a new fund for the needs of the special connections system that you move out of Telecom, which is a clear signal that you are planning to sell Telecom. You are obviously more concerned about the migrant population in Serbia than about pregnant women, maternity families, young married couples who have no problem with housing, families with more children, single families where no member is employed or over-indebted families who can no longer pay their loans or utility services, because people have simply lost their jobs in those robbery privatisations, those 24 for whom you have formed a working group, and for which no one has ever answered. As I recall, Mr. Vukic, and Miroslav Miskovic funded you when you were in the SRS, but I don't know if you forgot? It is quite strange that 1,000 dinars have been left for primary and secondary school awards, so for all primary schools, 1,000 dinars and all secondary schools in Serbia, 1,000 dinars, that rewards are employed. Is it possible that there is no professor who deserves to be rewarded for his work? This fact further worsens the situation in education because wages are inadmissible. The education and education of young generations is one of the basic preconditions for overall social progress and therefore it is necessary for the employees of education to have decent personal income and to be rewarded for special achievements. All educational workers in Serbia know that the Agency for Research and Development, Mr. Minister Sarčević, and the Centre for the Promotion of Science are weak or nothing doing, and that the planned promotion of dual education will end by leading around Serbia 200 young students and 3,000 volunteers from the ranks of SNS members on state spending. All these funds should be relocated, as we have suggested by a special amendment, to the Christmas reward of all educational workers in Serbia. If we know that 29 billion dinars from the budget go to specialised services, which you have not explained, and 23 billion on contract services, then it totals 52 billion for hiring new advances under temporary and occasional contracts, despite banning employment in the public sector, while where new workers, such as health care, tax administration and a certain part of local self-government, still operate. In particular, as Pavle Paja Petrovic of the Fiscal Council said in his assessment of the draft budget law, a competition was launched in September for the employment of 100 new young inspectors in the tax administration, which has not yet been completed, although it is crucial for the work of this institution, given the unfavourable age structure of employees and the departure of the most experienced pension personnel. After – why does the fight against the gray economy fail? When you list tax administrations, otherwise, Mr. Vukicu, across Serbia, somehow forget New Pazar and your coalition friends Rasim Ljajic and Muamer Zukorlic. I didn't hear you say - Rasim, did you issue a fiscal account or didn't you betray it, Muammer, did you issue a fiscal account or didn't you betray it? The total funds allocated to direct financial assistance to families, therefore, the children's dinar and the parental allowance are represented in the new budget with around 0.4 of the estimated GDP. Let me remind you that the European average for these singles is 2.8, with Hungary ahead of 4% of GDP, and more importantly, it is obvious that this government still does not understand that these measures have no effect on demographic growth. Only last year did Serbia lose 38,000 people. What I especially want to say about the end of this first part of my address is one very simple question – when was the last time you, Mr. Wolf, were in a TV duel with someone from the opposition? Do you want me to remind you? In the last five years, neither. The National Assembly is therefore the only place where you must go to the dual opposition, but here you all do to avoid this confrontation. You're not here on the last Thursday of the month, when you need to answer the questions of the MPs. You have not come to any special session on the topic you are invited to. When you came to the Assembly only once, four of the main parliamentary groups of the opposition did not get a chance to ask you a question. But you can't escape today. It is an opportunity for me to ask you what Commissioner Han says who has to be the next president of Serbia? Will he congratulate you again from Brussels three hours before the polls close in the second round of presidential elections, such as Tomislav Nikolic in 2012? I know, we know, everyone knows, Mr. Vukic, that you ordered tortured Djurdjevic's election theft in the last election and that three electoral lists of the opposition must be brought down below the censorship as you know and know. You announced a new election here yesterday. You started a new election campaign here yesterday, with the aim of eliminating the Dvori from the National Assembly and everyone else who bothers you, because you can't stand the constant opposition, because we're not afraid of you, because you can't blackmail us and we're not the false opposition that you agreed to co-operate with. I am telling you now, you will have to steal more than the last time to get us out of the National Assembly, for the support of the Two is growing day by day. In the end, you've been in power for five years, Mr. Wolf, and there's no result. Avoid more political marketing, theatre performances with SNS statisticians and no longer move people from work from state administration and public enterprises to attend the opening of factories within your TV spots. Finally, do something good for this country, for the Serbian economy, for the Serbian peasant, not just for the IMF and the EU. Go back to heart, leave that Western Protestant ethics and Webber. See finally how things are again with pure Serbian interest, as Milos Crnjanski said in his time. The world is changing, Mr. Wolfie. Don't go any further through the devastating economic path of Mladjan Dinkic. Don't listen to Dusan Vujovic, because he means the head of the World Bank, not the head of Serbia. Don't tell us every year that we'll be better in two, two and a half years, or resign if you can't change anything and leave as your friends Mateo Renci and Boyko Borisov. In the end, I am obliged, I really have an obligation to apologize to you for speaking to you yesterday with a Chacan accent, because you probably prefer German or Turkish. But I am obliged to explain to you, the areas of the presentation we go and go or run and run are doubles. Both are standard and equal in Serbian and you can see it in each language manual. You're no expert on that. Don't act when you don't understand something. There's another problem. You, criticising my Chacan accent, have offended not only the citizens of western Serbia and the Forest, but all citizens who do not speak and think as you say and think. I'm proud of Chuck and the ending I come from. Both Šumadija and Western Serbia are state-of-the-art. Maybe that's why they're bothering you, because all the uprisings and riots were moving from these parts, and that's what's going to happen against your authorities. Finally, there is no reason to insult any end of Serbia, there is no reason to insult any Serb accent. There's no reason to love Webber more than Serbia. I call on you to be careful in future when you speak, first, because you do not understand Serbian and linguistics, that is not your profession.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8020	MP, that has nothing to do with the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8021	And don't ask you next time to insult the citizens of Serbia, because I will always have an obligation to warn you that they are not your obedients and servants as perhaps members of your cabinet or party.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8022	Ambassador, I have to interrupt you. You insulted half of Serbia. There is no one you have not offended in your address. You insulted 249 MPs, you're not even aware that you've offended, I mean, I've excluded you. You have offended even your MPs. You've said terrible things in this House. Turns out 250 MPs are here because they stole the election. So, what are you doing here? You admitted the results of those choices because you entered this House here. Now, in what way, I don't know. You've insulted people who do their job fair and square. Let me tell you, I'm from that neighborhood too, I don't use any doubles. So, don't let all of us from one neighborhood, here we are, and Natasa Jovanovic, that you be the one who speaks as he speaks and who is for whom, don't. I call for decency and that we do not insult any guests or other MPs from other political options because of the way they spoke about the budget. I assume they have the right to commend the budget or you're the censor of everything. I can't hold a session like that, so MPs insult each other for their opinions. I have to give the line now. You have offended Cedomir Jovanovic and other MPs, too, about the prime minister not to speak. It doesn't make sense. It really doesn't make sense, and it doesn't make any sense to us that we're from Cuck, around Cuck. Here you go. The word is Alexander Vukitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8023	Dear People's MPs, honourable Madam Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, you were the citizens of Serbia yesterday, and you witnessed days of attempts and not only attempts, but carried out the most brutal attacks on the Serbian government and on me personally. Their whole policy has come down to the most serious insults, the most disgusting lies and nonsense. The most disgusting, who are not even able to pronounce, but have to read them what someone else wrote to them, not only because of the lack of courage they have always had, but also because of the lack of knowledge that such a thing happens again, 20 minutes is not easy to speak out of their heads. Unrelated to that, I'm going to analyze every fact, everything that's been said, to see what lies we've been facing today, what lies and how this whole campaign is going on. They were talking about the Chacan accent. They made that up tonight. You know why? They made up that story last night, even though I didn't mention the Chachan accent for one second. I was talking about something else. I was talking about it, you repeated the same words in front of the woman you hit in the congregation -- don't run or run. It had nothing to do with the Chachan accent. This had something to do with bullying behavior in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and the Cachans are good people and they have long pointed to you and your violent behavior, especially towards women. They weren't talking about you being brave enough to do it with men. They were talking about women. I was just warning you not to do it with women in the future, as you hit the lady, who was going out, both in the shoulder and in the leg and who you just spoke to the same way you did to me. So I repeated your words the way you said them at the time to point to violence and possible repetition of violent behavior. I wanted to warn you, even though I know you're always a hero, that you have in mind that I'm not a woman, and that's not exactly how you learned to do it in certain pubs, and that I didn't trust the lovely Chachans when they told me about it. I was saying -- people, that's impossible, it's got to have at least some knowledge, something. No, they told me – no, no. If it was an insult, I ask everyone to accept my apology, but I thought I was protecting women from these thugs who thought they could repeat it. It's hard for me to answer, because I'm here as president of the Serbian government, not as president of the SNS. It's very hard for me to tell someone who, as a poem, reads something -- SNS is a big con, and since SNS is a big con, for five years they've been in power, they're nothing and so tra-la-la. I've been listening to this for years to tra-la-la and the rotten grandmother flax. The results and numbers he has no idea, and now he's gonna tell me that I've offended some writers who write or someone who draws up textbooks, because he can't even read. He just told us that our subsidies to foreigners are bigger than our health budget. So we have 30 times less subsidies to develop the economy than the health budget, but you can't read it, 30 times. So, there's only one item in RFZO that you have 228 billion, but you can't read it if you can't read it and if you don't want to read it, you take it as a poem "Svabo tra-la-la" to repeat it. How could you think of such a stupid thing, lying to the people like that, making things up, lying so brutally to the citizens of Serbia? You're doing it all the time because you've read how many health ministry officials receive and you can't even look at what RFZO is and what transfer funds are. You have no idea about the state. You don't want to run the country, you just want to stay a little longer at the congregation restaurant, have a nice salary and be able to "Svabo tra-la-la" every day. That's why you're afraid of choices. You were talking here about destroying domestic investors. Our domestic investors are making progress, wages in the private sector are growing. Is that enough? No, the people are hard to live on, but above all, our domestic economy is progressing, our domestic businessmen and employers have supported this budget. Who were you talking to? You're talking about Muammer and Rasim, that they issue fiscal accounts. I have to teach you, I don't know if there's a Str. Rasim or whatever Zukorlic has, but I didn't know they had it. Politicians don't issue fiscal accounts. I guess you didn't get over it either, you didn't learn. Otherwise, in Novi Pazar we carried out control and for the shade it was better in the facilities, in the restaurant, 69% did not record traffic through the fiscal register, and in Kragujevac 74. Just so you have in mind, since I see that you would also share fiscal accounts by nationality, and I'm interested in fiscal accounts as much as it takes to finance roads, schools and hospitals, as long as it takes for all our children to live better, whether they're one, the other or the third nationalities. You mentioned some Turks, Turks did all kinds of evil in Serbia, but Serbia's greatest evil always did ignorance and haughtiness. The question is already too sophisticated and we've always had it, but ignorance and boast, precisely your traits, that's what made Serbia the most of all hurt, that's what destroyed Serbia always, that's what led to Serbia's ambition to fail, that we could never get away with it for decades after the wrong decisions. You're talking about deficits and surpluses and some kind of game. You don't understand anything, you don't listen to anything. That's your big problem. You didn't follow anything. You don't understand what a deficit reduction means. Some serious MPs who are in opposition know what that means. It's not about being in opposition and talking nonsense, it's about criticizing something that makes sense and it's smart and rational. We had a forecast deficit for last year of 122 billion. Let me repeat that to you and explain it one more time, if you can understand that. I know everyone in Chuck understands that, and it has nothing to do with Chuck. Smart people live there, and that's why they've seen you for a long time, and that's why you can't win an election in Chačka ever, right in Chačka without me talking anywhere else. So 122 billion was supposed to be a deficit. We don't have a deficit right now. At this point, we don't have a government budget deficit at all. We have a surplus today of about 30 billion. We're predicting a conservative budget for you. We do not boast in advance of great achievements, but we want to modestly present our work in the future, expecting that we can make better results. You can't figure it out because you don't know anything about these numbers and because you never wanted to know how the state works, but when the congregation salary is going to go, how many selfies and tweets I'm going to make and how much I'm going to go to a Chinese restaurant, and no, that's the other one. A little difference. You're so much the same that sometimes I mix you up. You say, I don't want to correct it, it has nothing to do with the Chacan accent or any accent, the ruling regime, there is no opposition regime. It's pleonasm, but it doesn't matter much now. You say we gave up rationalization, and last time you criticized rationalization. You don't know what your policy is anymore. You once attack rationalization and you say – people in the public sector will lose their jobs, and today you attack us for not talking about rationalization. What's your policy? Some played folk mothers, as I heard this morning when I couldn't watch, and I couldn't control them for wanting to fire everyone while they were in government. Just close, fire and lock. Then I fought every day to win politics – close, fire and lock, today they salt my mind and hold sermons and lectures on how people's interests should be protected. No, there's another one. You're talking about fighting corruption and crime, fraud and lies. The greatest legacy, I think that's what Fromm said, but maybe I was wrong, which someone can have, is someone's honesty. Fighting corruption and crime is something I'm particularly proud of and proud of. You can't find any criminal who runs Serbia today. You can find those you work with, but you can't find those who run the Serbian government in any way. Miroslav Miskovic never financed me and to be quite correct, I will convey the words of Miroslav Miskovic, given in the interview, I mean in the Time list, when they asked him – did you help Alexander Vukic, he said on the matter, was, even, so correct that he said - I offered him even when his family member was sick, to help with the treatment, Vukic refused to accept. So he never gave me a dinar, I never wanted to accept it, because I don't sell my cheek, not for a dollar, not for a billion, not for a billion. And on the other hand, you were in the coalition all along with those who raised Miroslav Miskovic, taking money from him and doing so. On your list are selected soles. You have at least two errand boys, Miroslav Miskovic, I don't know if they're in your list or yours, but on your list, yes. At least two direct errand boy, Miroslav Miskovic. He'll confirm that for sure. I don't think that's funny. I find that sad. It is sad for me, when you expect a political party who swears to Serbia to lead you, and your heart lies in the money of Delta and in what they can write in Time. That's where your whole heart lies. As for the fight against corruption and crime, yes, there is a first-degree verdict against Mr. Miskovic. I'm not the one who's capable of making decisions on behalf of second-degree bodies, and I don't mean to do that, but I guess that's the decision that follows. I don't know what you're gonna say then. A number of procedures are under way for 24 privatisations, numerous procedures. So, from Agrobanka to the very mentioned Delta agrarian, I don't know which companies, which I'm going to introduce you to during the day and read to you everyone against whom criminal charges have been filed, charges filed, and at what stage the processes are at. All, in accordance with the decisions of the executive bodies processed, what the judicial authorities were doing, I can't interfere unless you want to accept it yourself and make a banana state out of this country. You said we didn't take care of any businesses. You see, for the companies that you and your coalition partners have destroyed, and the ones you're working with today, we haven't destroyed any of them. We were just fixing up and making things better. I'll give you an example, since you've been telling the truth again, so I won't tell you if you've lied, it's a little too strong, you've been telling the truth. Let's say Jelizara Smederevo, who was empty, left behind on the meadow workers did not work and Jelizara Smederevo is working with 5,200 people today, with 10,000 cooperatives, paying them an increase. You found no one's factory, no one else's factory, because you never cared about factories, they found people from the Serbian government. After five years of working again for the ISK, I'm not happy with all the results, but the ISK is working. If you want me to tell you about the factories I opened, one of them is "Teklas" in Vladic's Han, which you said you were going to close, and I am informing Violeta Ivanovic and her colleagues that if, God forbid, people like this would win, that they would no longer have a job. They would, after shutting down all the companies and all the factories in Vlad's Han, have decided to shut down again. You want to shut down Marko and you in Žitoraj, to shut down this new factory that we're bringing in "Sowguyuz", or as it's already called in Turkish, I'm not quite sure. And We brought them, so lock them up. Lock down all the companies. This movement has been known for it and your whole idea against foreign investors and against everything that is happening in Serbia is known in history as "not that crazy", when they started destroying machines and is called in historical terms the Ludistic Movement. I'm afraid we wouldn't have a crazy movement but a similar movement, but that movement, while the citizens of Serbia who know that would lead us to ruin, will not be able to win the support of the people. You were talking about a Serbian poor woman in fiscal accounts, what a manipulation of a populist and miserable substitute for thesis. It is the Serbian poor that you rob by not issuing fiscal accounts, because the one who doesn't issue the fiscal bills is not the poor, the poor one is the one who needs to get the way and the hospital. You are now instigating the robbery of the Serbian poor, you are asking for the Serbian poor to be robbed, because the Serbian poor get roads from fiscal accounts, and hospitals, schools, and kindergartens, and everything else. You invite people not to pay taxes. You invite people not to perform their civic duties and obligations, that's a shame. There is no such thing in any country in Europe. No one in any country in Europe does or does. Nowhere. I don't know if it exists in some African country, the right to tell you, I'm not entirely directed, but I'll check. I doubt it exists there, but I'm quite certain that even in African countries women don't beat up when they don't cross the census, so ambassadors can't tell them right away that they've crossed the census, but some form has to be carried out, from about seven to eight days. You've been playing me some patriot here the whole time, yelling about the heart, I don't know what. Stop playing that act. Neither you have anything to do with the heart, nor with the Serbs, nor with Serbian history, nor with the Serbian future. You say - we sell, the intended sale of EPS, Telekom. It's not. If you know anything about this, please let me know. If you know something, you might want to let us know, find out, and know what the price is. Last time you knew we had already agreed and that Telekom had already been sold, but, well, we didn't sell it. And I knew I was wrong not to privatize him, and I was right, but I listened to you and your advice and we didn't sell it. I took your extraordinary advice and I did the most stupid thing in my life. And I won't listen to that nonsense again. So, you're talking about some Dinkic, you're talking about Dinkic. You went to him, kissed his hand the whole time while you took some of Kostunica's money, a little of Dinkic, and I replaced Dinkic. Dinkic is not a member of the government because, together with the SPS partners, I replaced Dinkic from the government, not you. You're telling me about Dinkic after 10 years of his authority. And in doing so, whether there were bad and good, there were certainly bad things, there were good things. You're the only one I don't see any good about. You were talking about a reduction in agriculture and you made it up again. You have five billion more for agriculture than we had. But what you're going to do, it's written and it's supposed to be read, but it's not always easy for you. You said - what's different from DS and many others? Everything's different. A million things are different, and there are some things that are normal, so they have to be similar or the same. That is why I do not hesitate to say – thank you to those who say that something is normal in a state-of-the-art sense and that is why I will always be ready to do so. I can't see it with you or anyone else, because it doesn't exist. The following are different things: those who had a deficit of minus 3.1% today have a growth of 3.1%, today you have a growth of plus 2.8%. Those who had and created such a deficit, today the government deficit almost does not have it, or we will only have it because we are going to transfer money to the Russians for Petrochemy, but we do not have it essentially. We made a healthy economy. At that time, it seems to us to be a good part, your employers like Miroslav Miskovic managed, today Miroslav Miskovic, with all due respect for his efforts, his work, his progress, certainly the government of Serbia does not manage. And he doesn't manage and he doesn't make any decisions. You were saying, "Why didn't you start a bank?" Because our concepts differ, because you would destroy the Serbian economy because for your bank we would have to allocate 500m euros every year that do not exist. Because we want to force the creation of private banks that will have interest in giving favourable loans with favourable interest rates, and they've never been more favourable to those interest rates, but there's no money on the gift. You'd like something else. You would like to give yourself and your tycoons money, such as Bogicevic, Miskovic, many other people, whom they are responding to today, by order of some people, just as you mentioned earlier, who, I see, support the same or similar candidates as you, at different cafes. So, the bottom line is that today this kind of robbery, of course, I'm giving you a loan, but that loan never comes back and there's no collateral. That system doesn't work anymore. The robberies, unfortunately, are gone. I won't let anyone rob Serbia. You say who you work for, Mr. Wolfie? And you had to read it, you couldn't say it, who are you working for? So he listed the IMF, the World Bank, the European Union and NATO. But, listen, of course, it's very stupid and it made you laugh, but it's like a mantra that someone memorized every day, that part I believe he knew by heart, he didn't have to read it, it was just in case he had to read it. So every day they start repeating something, not listening to what's going on around them, not wanting to see what's going on around them, what's what someone's saying, what is it that someone's doing, they start believing their own lies, and you're going to notice, they start talking in the third person. It's like when some leaders started talking - and then they talk about it and talk about themselves. Now, you should expect them to start talking about themselves in the third person. It's the next phase. So, what's this about? I work for the citizens of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia. I work with all my heart. I work and invest huge energy and whether it bothers you or not, huge effort, huge effort, unlike you who don't work for two hours a day. I work at least eight times more every day, at least eight times more, and there's no one who won't confirm it, loved me or didn't love me. Here's the man I probably bother most with, Vojislav Seselj, so let him tell you whether I'm lazy or worthy of whatever I am. I've worked with him for 15 years, and I don't see what's funny about that. That's your problem. With NATO? What are you making up? What are you making up? Should someone give you some money when you invent something like that and represent yourself as some kind of protector of Serbia's path to NATO? What do you need to lie to such things? I went to NATO headquarters and told the NATO Council directly to everyone that Serbia is not interested in NATO membership. What are you making up? You're right, they're the best bar reactions. That brings you the most. I just don't see, there's no woman in between to grab someone's shoulder or dump her, so you might be better off. You say - the military budget and the weapons budget and equipment are shrinking. What are you reading? What are you reading? Where does that say? It's just getting bigger. I'm telling you, we've singled out the extra two and a half billion you see right now, except you don't see them because you can't find them in the budget because you can't read. I told you yesterday it was separate for weapons and equipment. And what are you gonna do? It's easier to invent. It's easier to repeat. Great and? We've already had these protests, they're everywhere, especially in African countries. In many countries, Europe is banned, in Germany, France has no unions in the military and police. With us, we are a democratic country. You don't have any in those countries. You're proud of it, you're happy with the union fight in the military and the police, and I'm lucky 99% of the people won't go with you or those unions in the military and the police who don't respect the state. I am for those who respect their country and who love their country and their Serbia and I do not wait for money from anyone. You're talking about my friends, that my friends are both Boyko Borisov and Mateo Renzi. If I have a similar fate waiting for me, it's possible, probably. It's quite possible. It's very important that people see this, that people see this joy, imagine that God forbid a woman, so I can get past my shoulder, my leg, and who knows what else. To be strong and what they would be able to do, how strong they are in such cases. At least this way, I'm partially protected and I know they're not as brave as when it comes to women. I have one thing to tell you. They're my friends, and that's what we're different about. You see, I don't give up on my friends when they're in power or when they leave power. I was with Angela Merkel when it looked like she wasn't going to be chosen anymore, just like I did today and I don't have any problem with that. I will always be. What's your problem, that's because you don't have friends, because you, like this errand boy, managed to first, when Vojislav Kostunica fell out of power, to hit him in the back because there was no more Kostunica's money. That's how long it took. And that's what we're different about. We also differ in what you say – Commissioner Han said who would be president. To me, no commissioner, no foreign minister, no chief of any commission or anything or any ambassador should say anything about the internal opportunities in Serbia, only the reforms I need to implement. As I recall, when you were robbing elections and stealing people's will, so you could sit here and receive high wages without doing anything or very little to steal it all, so you and the ambassador hired those against whom you say today, every day. You want to hire them again? You've been saying something against the Americans all along, when you needed it -- where you're a friend, an American ambassador, takes us inside to bring down the one who's against you. Did you do that? My answer to you is just, I hope, so it's clear to me that you are close to winning, and we will do our best to convince the citizens. Whether or not we're gonna make it, it's hard for us, because I see that you now have a lot of support. We will try to convince citizens that it is important to have an uncomparably more serious approach in solving all the problems in our country, that Serbia must be a normal country first of all, that Serbia must be a country of its citizens, that in Serbia it must be decided by its citizens and that our national and state interests must be protected, and not by any foreign country, Russia, or America, or any other European country. This is a country of citizens of Serbia and a country called the Republic of Serbia. You say I'll have to steal more. You stole it, because I stole nothing and don't steal it, please. From time to time, it would be polite for you to address in harmony and in a way similar to this high home. The citizens of Serbia cannot hear what atrocity you are throwing away and what you are saying and what it is you are doing. I don't have any problem with that, because like yesterday, the citizens of Serbia saw what was going on. They were talking, he's getting away, he's running away from us. They made five hundred comments. He can't face us. She's shaking with fear. I don't know what I heard. It was for nothing, because it wasn't worth it, I told them countless times – people will come tomorrow. It's easier for me part of the day. I've had very difficult meetings during the afternoon, and I'll have them in the afternoon and tonight. It's the most beautiful part of the day for me to get so much approval, to figure out how much ignorance political opponents have. Then I saw strange things. You noticed one thing and I didn't even do it. Some have organised some kind of vote on their websites, and it does not matter at all that the party candidate I run is either the party president or anyone else who doesn't win. Then, in the meantime, I guess they're encouraged by such powerful debates and courage by some who beat women and who think they're very brave to scare everyone else in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, they announced something tonight, which is why I didn't fall asleep for the first time insulting my daughter and saying that I don't know what to do to her dead and published it on the official portals of the most important read media in Serbia. Messengers of the Dwrey are getting it. No, I don't blame you. I'm not that dirty and I don't think it's you. You'd do it, I'm not so dirty to say that you did it or that someone else would think it. Don't threaten me because I'm not scared at all and not at all fascinated by thugs. To tell you the truth, I don't have any problem with that. Violence in Serbia will no longer be able to show. I guarantee you no woman will ever be able to hit you again like you did in the National Assembly. I guarantee you that. (Bosko Obradovic, from the place: You are not ashamed. Otherwise, that woman is, because people say I should be ashamed to protect women from rapists, and those who beat women are no shame. You're right. That woman made a statement to the police. That woman made a statement to the police. It was probably appropriate for her to come into conflict with a powerful American exhibit that the US ambassador had just introduced into the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, so she needed to speak, so she needed to say such things. Probably the woman invented, dreamed or dreamed of it. If you need me, I'll deliver a statement to the police in the course of the day, but you're familiar with it as far as I know. So there were no games and no jokes. So what's important for Serbian citizens is that people in Serbia know that we've been doing it seriously, that we've made major shifts, that we've made great progress and that in the future we're going to fight to make this progress even bigger. Of course, it's awfully hard to work at times and times when there's no value, when there's not a single number to be read, it's enough to invent what you want. I'll remind you of the most disgusting lie. The most disgusting lie is that economic subsidies to foreign companies are bigger than the health budget. That's what you've all heard and no one's responding. Look, the difference is, I said 1:30, the difference is bigger when you add other funds. Imagine you're lying about something 30 times, not three times, but 30 times. You're not ashamed and ashamed to say something like that, and you know why? Because they thought I wasn't going to catch it, they were going to fly by, so people would say -- terrible, imagine not caring about our health and taking care of foreign companies. That's terrible. Then when you look at the situation of that terrible lie, the question arises – what is it that you can do against it because one lie is catching up with another lie every day. Angela Merkel recently announced and said – I have now seen and learned from individual choices in Europe and in the world that it is not enough for four years to do the best for your country, and she has been working for 12 years, that it is not enough. It's enough today at a time of rapid information, social networks that you two days with three, four or five lies attack and that you simply can't defend yourself, even though you've been doing well for four years. That's their style. It's their trick. This is the intention – we invent, we agree, we agree that Vukić said something about births. We agree that Marijan Risticevic said something he didn't say. I am angry with some of ours who did not want to read what anyone said about which I also resented Marijana Rističević for entering a particular topic. No one came into it that someone was cursing his mother and someone spit on him... The People's Messenger throws: "Poor." No, you're the poor ones who spit. It's not the poor one who's spit, it's the poor one who spits. That's all you have to learn. I think Serbia's citizens could see enough to learn from this. I want to apologize to the citizens of Serbia for having to go down from time to time to a level that you don't think is appropriate to you, which you don't think is similar to the Serbian political scene, because for some people there is no different language. There is no even though I have been decent and I have chosen words and tried to do so in a very civilized way, but you have to show them that the time of beating in Serbia has long passed, the time of violence, the time of election theft along with foreign ambassadors has also passed, and that is why I am sure and confident that such a bad atmosphere that is created in Serbian society will not be able to survive for much longer, so either it is possible that I will end up as some hope and expect as Boyko Borisov or Mateo Renci or some others in other places to address citizens rather than from this high house. Of course, everything depends on the people and on the citizens and on their will which is the highest will and the most important will for us. At the same time, and I end up, I think it's crucial for Serbia because we've had many wrong decisions in the past, many wrong decisions, many times we haven't understood what's going on and that's why we paid a high price. The highest price is irresponsibility and the price we will have to pay for the boast and insolence of those who least know. I want to thank you, too, the MPs, and the citizens of Serbia who have enough raids and who, without emotion and who understand what it is we do and who understand what it is that others want to do. For the end, I am working and I will only do what is Serbia's interest. I swore on the Constitution of Serbia. I love Serbia no less than you do, and I think I love it most in the world. Thank you very much. (Bosko Obradović, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8024	Cedomir Jovanovic is asking for a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8025	Mr. Obradovic, on my New Belgrade, as well as with you in Chačka man, I suppose the truth is binding. He especially obliges him to be honest with his opponent. Everything else is cowardice. In front of me sits selector Davis of the Serbian team who has been celebrating and grieving all his life, but always hands out to its opponent, especially when he suffers defeat. That's why Djokovic was big in London when he hugged Murray and said - he honestly won the better. I have had the opportunity to wage my wars with the Wolf and I will fight in the future when I think it is my debt to this country. As for the criminals you mention, first I will tell you that I do not want to talk to you about it, because I know that you are not a talker on the subject, but I will not allow Serbia to be a gulag, and you, Mr. Vukic, can, as well as Mr. Djukanovic, keep quiet what you know. I tried to tell you yesterday. We're not going into an election campaign by hiding the truth from people. I don't think that's a lot of courage, but if I had the courage to say yesterday -- every honour for that budget, make sure I had the courage to tell this country what was waiting for her in the elections and after the election if she didn't realize that we were always our own greatest enemies. What I know, he knows enough of the world to be with you, Mr. Wolfie, your party or without you, to protect this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8026	Time. Thank you. The word has Goran Ciric. (Bosko Obradović, from town: Replica! ) Article 104 and Article 3. study, as Goran Ćirić speaks. (Bosko Obradovic, from the post: I am the only head of the parliamentary group who will not get a replica!? I apologize to Ambassador Goran Ciric. I ask the MP of Bosko Obradovic not to be so violent towards me. It's very hard for me to run these sessions, believe me. Much harder than those of you who come in, come out, come up with some kind of joke, come back, etc. I have to be here all the time, and I'm not exactly insensitive to insult and screaming, and I'm a woman, to be clear, I guess that's what you see. You have to sign up except you're yelling at me to give you two minutes. (Bosko Obradovic, from the place: I was registered for half an hour. Sign up nicely. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8027	The Honorable Chairman, you have just tried to take away my right to a replica, and you have given your word to all the heads of Parliament, that in two minutes I will respond to 38 minutes, the Prime Minister will answer me. So Dinkic is still a member of the government and deals with the United Arab Emirates, although you promised to arrest him and wear his prison suit here in the National Assembly. You've avoided forming a survey board because you're afraid of the truth about the electoral theft. You didn't even accept your proposal to set up a survey board. In Chačka, which you mention, I received 40% of the votes in my hometown and 37% of the votes in my neighborhood where I live. Otherwise, half of the government is your former DOS, so you should turn around if you have a problem with what DOS was doing. I learned from the best of you. As for the congregation restaurant, you haven't had a day of work in your life, you've been in a congregation restaurant your whole life. And you talk to someone about a congregation restaurant? Tomislav Nikolic was the one who said "The impression of the week" – Miroslav Miskovic and our previous campaign financed me and Vukica. That's your boss, that's your former party president. Most importantly, is there a German intelligence agent, Beba Popovic, who you paid five million euros at the expense of... (Bosko Obradovic, from the place: What is this? [[off microphone]] )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8028	In the heat of the discussion, you press that button. Sign up, I remember where we left off. (Bosko Obradovic, from the place: What is going on? As soon as I mention a German agent, the technique is down. I don't know what's going on, I don't even know who it is. Just sign in, you've got 33 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8029	Just when I mentioned an agent of the German intelligence service to Bebu Popovic, somehow the technique breaks down. I wanted to ask you, Mr. Prime Minister, did Nebojsa Stefanovic transfer Sidelic to Montenegro to help Milo Djukanovic save him in power in this mounted affair that was conducted on the day of the election? And, in that sense, I want to conclude one important thing, your friends Kamaras and Bojan Bajkovic have been abducted from the "Steel" 144m euros. If you hadn't laundered money over it before you left...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8030	It's been 33 seconds since I took your...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8031	Of course, I'm also asking if these friends of yours from Savala are paying fiscal bills...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8032	You've read your speech to the end, thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8033	Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest the next thing, I think you'll get the most concrete answer. I have not yet formed an electoral headquarters, I will form it shortly enough before the elections, to try to oppose you, and neither Mr Popovic nor anyone else can be a member of that election headquarters, but I have something more concrete. If you find one dollar, not five million you're throwing yourself at, and you should be ashamed of yourself, maybe five million to you, I haven't seen five million, and I don't know what five million is, but if you find one dollar at the bank in Austria that I transferred to Mr Popovic, I'm no longer prime minister. You liars, shame on you, what lies you tell. Shame on you! And you're not ashamed? Here, look now, I tell them in the face – find one dollar, not five million. There isn't. The other day, that hunter invented it, he says. I've got 500 million in the Swiss bank. I tell him... (Bosko Obradović: Vulin? He's sitting in the government. ) No, I was thinking whether Bosko Obradovic or Zoran Čičak are the same Julyers, but it doesn't make any difference. So this guy said 500 million... (Alexander Vulin, from the place: there are liars...) )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8034	Please, Minister, let the Prime Minister answer, he's the one they asked.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8035	Alexander, don't worry, because lies are always short feet. So remember, 500 million in Switzerland's bank, five million in Popovic's bank account. What else did you say? Kamaras and Boykovic, then launder the money and take the money. So I gave so much effort, energy, and love to the Irons... That's right, love to that factory, unlike you who haven't given a minute to solve the problems of the modern workers and never occurred to you. If I ever took one dinar from anything, from any factory, anywhere, one dinar, not 140 of something, thousands, millions, anything, one dinar, I'm not the prime minister anymore. Just give me one piece of evidence, one piece of evidence. Of course he's gone, and of course it didn't occur to you either, but to lie, to lie, to lie and to lie and to lie on a daily level a hundred times so they lie. Well, your brother bought you a French, so your brother bought you this. He didn't buy anything and he didn't buy anything and he didn't think to buy anything. You think that's funny? I am saddened and ashamed to see what kind of politics you have managed to enter the National Assembly and what lies you have deceived the people until now. It's important that people now see with what kind of people you're talking to about fraud and fraud, I'm a decent man, but that's a small word for you. What you're doing, it's a disgrace to this country. So, one dollar find, not five million, I'm not the prime minister. Money, euro, franc, whatever you want, anything. That's what your folks like. That's what you learned. I understood you immediately because you converted it into euro, because you dinars don't count for money. I understand completely. Your problem is, the problem with all of you here is that unlike you, I am an honest man and as pure as tears. My face is clean, and that's why I'm beating you, and I'm going to beat you as long as I want and as long as I want to deal with politics.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8036	Thank you. (Milan Lapcevic, from town: Replica! ) Milan Lapcevic does not have the right to reply because you do not have a parliamentary group. So, the mention of the party you belong to has the president of the parliamentary group, Art. Versus 104. 2. It's not my evil intention, but you don't have a group anymore. I'm sorry, what can I do? I can't make groups yet. The word has Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8037	Madam President of Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister and Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues, here we are today, continuing the atmosphere and from yesterday's session of the Assembly and we do not see such an atmosphere just when we have representatives of the government. I think it is important to say that both myself and the DS Parliament Club condemns every attack on both the family and each individual in this room personally, we have condemned this, here, I also condemn in the case of an attack on the prime minister's family, as we have condemned the speech of the MP who has condemned and accused the DS MP to use the treatment of his own child for political purposes, as we will defend every citizen of Serbia who is experiencing such a kind of accusation. I think it is important to say this openly and clearly because every budget, every budget debate, about Serbia's future for 2017 can still be creative and can only be sustainable in a significantly different atmosphere than what we have in the hall today, because the arguments will also be much clearer and much more visible, and also more useful for the citizens of Serbia. It seems to me that an atmosphere is being created in which everyone who has a different opinion and who wants to express a critical attitude is being accused of being an enemy, of being a criminal, and I think we all have to come out of it together. What I want to say at the beginning is something my colleagues and colleagues mentioned, here, we have a budget calendar ahead of us. The government was obliged to send the budget to the Assembly by November 1st, the legal deadline for adoption of the budget is December 15th, which I hope and I am sure we will respect. But it is obvious that the legislator and the then assembly that passed the budget system law had in mind the need to use about a month to analyse the budget and to make some useful or less useful amendments and proposals to fix the budget. He can be great in 99% of cases, but if we fix 1% of that budget, then we've done a good job. That is how I understood Minister Vujovic's invitation to the Finance and Budget Committee when he called for a consensus of all parties on some key issues. We are prepared for this kind of consensus and debate in such a way, but I don't think there's enough time or time, honestly, because the fact that we had one day to prepare the amendments and the correction of the possible budget is something that doesn't comply with the budget law. I'm going to stop with that comment, because I think the argument for it isn't -- previous governments have been doing a lot worse than this. And we can agree on that. Some budgets were coming there somewhere before New Year's Eve and adopted in a hurry and that, of course, is no excuse for these governments either, but it is no excuse for this government that has not respected the deadlines defined by the Law on the Budgetary System of the Republic of Serbia. Some of the arguments were that it was necessary to design better, and it will probably be an answer, a budget for next year, by having detailed data for three quarters and by doing so we had a better budget projection, but I think there was room to give at least five to seven days and to be in the legal frameworks in which we would adopt this budget by 15 December. What we reminded the finance minister above all, it's a violation of the Budgetary System Act. With regard to the government's commitment, each Government, and this is the fifth budget that we adopt in this composition of this assembly majority, which is that, with the budget, in the event that we have a public debt of 45% of GDP participation, the government has an obligation to submit a draft measure with the adoption of the budget from the way in which public debt will be recovered and realised in the legal frameworks. So the current law prescribes 45% of public debt participation in GDP. We didn't have government proposals five years ago or today. I think it is very important to mention this today, and I think it is important to discuss how we will address the consequences of borrowing in the past five years, of course, and previous borrowings, but in May 2012 the level was exceeded, 15 billion at that time was about 48 to 50% of the public debt in GDP, and that the proposal for a public debt settlement measure was also put forward at the end of the year. I think we also had a very mature discussion on the Committee on Budgets and Finance where there were some disagreements and Professor Petrovic and Minister Vujovic, different views, I don't have to say disagreements, different views in this sense, that Mr Vujovic said that the price of public debt fell and that we have more space and that it is possible to suggest a correction of the percentage of public debt in GDP to a level of 60%, where the Fiscal Council obviously disagrees. But I think it's very important that we talk about it, just in the context of this data simple. One is a public debt, the level of public debt at this point is about 25 billion or something less, and we have, we have seen in the budget, and new borrowings, so somewhere at 859 billion dinars. On the other hand, we have GDP. I think it's important to talk about it, those two parameters. At this point, it is difficult to lower public debt, but, of course, here is the task of all of us, and above all, of the Prime Minister and Government, to work on the growth strategy and the way we can increase GDP. This is where we come up with the parameters on which we can discuss, which is primarily the missing budget implementation report at least in three quarters of 2016, based on which the 2017 budget is projected. We now have a situation in the Assembly in which we are talking about the projection of the 2017 budget, which was projected on the basis of the 2016 budget projection, and that we as MPs do not have a realisation of the 2016 budget. It is difficult to make an analysis based on figures and exact data based on the 2017 projection compared to the 2016 projection. But what we can see, I think it's important to hear from both the Prime Minister and the finance minister, and that's the last thing that's our total GDP for 2015, that's the last final data that we can find officially, about 3,900 billion dinars, which means that it's about 32-32.3 billion euros, with a projection that for 2016 it's 2.8, because we hear that data from you, that's about billions on an annual level, so in 2016 we're at about 33 billion. With the 2017 projection by 3%, we'll get to some amount of 34 billion euros. So, we saw in the opening statement that the finance minister presented the budget plan to the Serbian Parliament on the basis of a projection that GDP in 2017 will amount to 4.4 000 billion, meaning around 35.7 billion euros for 2017, and this is an extremely ambitious plan. So we now need to talk about how this level of GDP will be achieved because very rarely we talk about absolute figures of GDP, mostly calling for quarterly reports relating to previous quarters. We had a case to call for growth in relation to the third quarter GDP decline in 2014. I don't think that's gonna help us much. What is it that we can see in the projection of the budget? In addition to this public debt, which must be a major challenge for the Republic of Serbia, which is not only the responsibility of this government, it is also the responsibility of previous governments, but, realistically, the responsibility of this government and this ruling coalition is ten billion times the debt from 2012 to 2017. You'll answer me, yes. What's the challenge this year? So, I said, the projection is in the budget and there are clear figures that 859 billion new debts are planned for 2017. That is why I am gaining, and these are arguments for the need to get a proposal from the Government of Serbia to resuscitate the level of public debt and its participation in GDP, because we are talking about Serbia's future and we are talking about the way we will live in Serbia. I think it's clear and there's a tendency to lower the deficit level, the projection is 1.06 plus the 0.1%, and here when we talk about the level of general budget and budget deficits, I want to point out, what we rarely mentioned in this debate, and that's the state of the local budget. Mr. Prime Minister, he has made very frequent remarks on how local budgets are being managed and we have had live transmission and criticism of Mayor Nis and discussions on 50m euros, only one local self-government, deficit in the local self-government budget. So that's what affects the overall balance of the state, but I think it has a crucial impact on citizens' lives in these places. I want us to focus this debate in such a way that the tables and the numbers in the exel table are turned into what it means for real life. If you have a city of 300,000 people, with such deficits and such a state of public utility systems, then we're talking about how water supply is going to be, what will be the treatment of solid waste, we're talking about people's health, we're talking about city cleanliness, we're talking about heating, we're talking about heat in that city not working properly, we're talking about the lives of people who are shutting down from heat due to under-quality and expensive heating and inefficient systems and the amount of wood or coal on the tenth floor heating in such a way that it's not even a little more comfortable. The way we have adopted some laws here and practically defined a policy in which transfers to local self-government have been reduced year by year, brings real problems to the functioning of local self-government, and communal systems at the level of local self-government, and thus the quality of life of citizens living there. It is not only a matter of transfer, but also of the efficiency of managing these local self-governments. That's what we discussed with the Minister for Local Self-Government and State Administration. What is also important is that this budget and deficit is reduced through reduced transfers to local self-government, through cuts in wages and pensions, through the introduction of electricity and electricity taxes that people feel, and all these imposes affect the quality of life and the standard of citizens. What's also for analysis is one of the data we talked about on the Finance Committee, which is that income and planned VAT revenues are such that they show in fact the structure of the economy, which is that VAT from the country is planned, at 109 billion, and that VAT from imports is planned at 375 billion dinars. I think that this data is something that points us all to the need for greater money and greater isolation in the Republic of Serbia's budget incentivising projects that can boost the domestic economy that will stimulate imports, since it is obviously a triple higher VAT income level, from imports compared to VAT from the country. I think these are extremely important things and Mr. Prime Minister called on my colleague Mark Djurisic yesterday to come out with some concrete proposals, especially in the area of social policy. I want to say that the DS Parliament Club has personally submitted a series of amendments, but one of the amendments that is extremely important and I think that we can agree on that if we think about the sustainability of each budget and the excellent and less good and the bad are primarily people who are going to use that budget. So the sustainability of this budget is primarily seen through the social sustainability of all Serbian citizens. Where we can begin is primarily from children, from young people, from people who adopt new knowledge, and there is also the minister of education and those who need to guarantee Serbia's future, those to whom we cannot leave this level of debt. We need to discuss how we're going to serve these very debts. I submitted the amendment because in 2017, with a growing level of poverty in Serbia, I don't think we should have any hungry children in school benches. We have proposed an amendment in which we will increase by six billion positions – the student standard. I don't think that's a great deal for such a high purpose. I think it's a serious project, first of all, we don't insist on it being our amendment, if they're not applicable there, and if there's some inaccuracies, I think it would be a good idea for the government to accept this amendment and work it out, we have time in Serbia, in every elementary school, to provide a free meal for children who can't starve if we want to invest in their education. Unfortunately, many children in Serbia currently do not have more than one meal. I mean, if the state could do it, and she'd have to think about it. Here I call on both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Resort to accept at least the idea if not the amendment in integrity, because I think it's an extremely important thing. The second amendment is an incentive for the most talented students. Yesterday we had a debate on subsidies to foreign IT companies and how to encourage training of new and larger numbers of engineers because at the moment it is a deficit for this interest in Serbia, but I think we should separate the additional ones, and here we have given one amendment, an additional two billion in which again in the education budget we would increase the levels and amounts that would stimulate colleges that give the most professional staff in this area. I think it's possible, and that these kids should be selected from high schools, especially one that because of their property condition, they can't reach any colleges regardless of their talents. I think it's a job that the government should plan in the most efficient way possible. These are some of our concrete proposals that we would like you to consider because the sustainability of this budget is primarily possible in this way. What I want to say is, and that's what we're talking about, it's investing in building a clinic center in Nis. There is a health minister, but I think it's important one thing that in April is expected to open the clinic center and should be said and stressed, it was not possible to do so for a year. The continuity of the project comes from 2003 and the signing of a contract with the EBRD has not been done effectively enough. The credit's on you, but what's the big deal? It's important that it's not just shape, it's not just that hardware and it's not just equipment. In the past five years, no graduate medical student in Nisa has received a job. (Goldibor Lonchar, from the place: Come on, just once more let everyone hear it.) You'll get the information. All right, I'm telling you, I have that information. I think it's important to say the next thing, that it's a great thing for health care in Serbia, that it's a great thing for health care in Nis, but it's primarily important to invest in content. If we have the discontinuity of hiring young doctors, then we have the discontinuity and levels of services that can be expected, because specialists with whom new specialists should grow, and that takes at least five to ten years, require enough training and enough experience in this regard. I think it's important and I remind you that there is a need to take steps first of all in moving, because all personnel from the existing Clinical Center will move into that new building, with new technological conditions, but there is a need to think about how to use other capacities, because I think these capacities are enough to employ young people who will, for example, work simpler and gain new knowledge. The point is, the budget can be good, it can be less good, but I think it's important that he thinks first of all about people. This budget can be sustainable if the effect of building a Clinical Centre in Nis is filled with top sustainability content in which new doctors will also raise the level of health services.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8038	Thank you. You've spent all your time, 20 minutes from authorized. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8039	With gratitude for a correct and rational approach, I will try to answer every question you have and every one of those. In this part of the funding account, first of all, you've gathered what we're about to refinance, i.e. a rollover and what's a potential deficit. It can't be an additional borrowing, it's just a refinancing. We have 790 billion, 789 billion, 770 million to pay off the old debts. So that's what we're going with rollover. You're taking new ones to replace the old ones, and we're making money because we're taking under more unmatched conditions than we used to. Look, that applies to you and here it says - and the acquisition of financial assets. So it's exactly the process and process I've described to you. Possible borrowing, so people can understand when we talk about borrowing, is always possible in height, new borrowing at the height of the deficit. You counted well, if we have a billion and a hundred increases in GDP, and for about 550m euros we take, so we are in debt, we are not in debt, we are not increased public debt compared to GDP, because it is not important for the absolute amount of public debt, it is important that the public debt ratio towards GDP, otherwise other countries like Slovenia, and you would say that it is much more in debt than we are, four times smaller, and it is not, because of the GDP that is incomparably higher. So the only category that matters is the public debt ratio towards GDP. That's why people rarely mix refinance, or rollover with real debt and real deficit. We don't have that. We haven't had this guy in debt this year, even though we've pulled 50 times for the rollover money, but real debt, no real debt. So that's the fundamental difference between these two digits that you've read. Let's start with what you came from, from the atmosphere. You've identified, I've been the first to react and say -- never do that, I'm happy that we've created a fund to treat children and what we give for it, and I've said never say anything and go in because it's not done, it's just, it's a shame, it's not done, but you've compared two things that aren't similar and identified them. I can't say this to tell you how similar they are and how unfair that is, of course, in different ways. But we'll leave it. You're saying there's an impression that no political attitude and no different opinion is allowed. Well, you're allowed to even say that, even if you're lying about me transferring five million euros to someone. What, five million, what are you guys talking about? Five hundred million, not you, but you were talking about the atmosphere in the congregation. I've already told you that you've stepped up correctly, and that's how I answer to you, to everyone according to merit, of course. So when you have to deal with such vomit and lies to face, then you ask the question – and you don't say who's guilty and responsible for that atmosphere? Is it not the one responsible and the one who puts up with his mother swearing or cursing his dead father? Let's call it a real name, let's say who it is. I'm not ashamed and I'm not afraid to go out on a duel, as you can see, all of you, I'm completely alone, and you have not two minutes, but 20 plus I don't know how many minutes to talk about it and to be against everyone, it's not my problem because it's democracy and it's my responsibility. And most of all, I come to the National Assembly. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Well, include a bit of ministers. E, can't Vojislave, I know... (Vojislav Seselj, from the post: Weak ministers something. ) So, let's get back to it, I'm not going to get into these previous governments, that you have in mind that from 2008 to 2012 no budget has arrived before this year has arrived, not once, just to have that in mind. So, not that it happened once as an excess, it never came once. The budget is good because I know you know it, and I know you understand it perfectly, for some things you said, thank you for that. So the state doesn't have to mean anything to me. I know what you think of me, you know what I think of you, but it means to the state, and it's very important to step up responsibly. You were talking about the level of public debt. You keep referring to it, you talk about some fifty-something percent of people, and you've been talking about it since 2012, and you're acclaiming to us in 2012. The 2012 budget is yours. Since September 1st, no one can be responsible for what happened in 2012. Come, empty cash register, he's got to pay his pension, he's got to be in charge. It's the one who put the budget together. You can talk since 2013, but that's impossible, because it's impossible to bring down the commitments that are piled up. Could we have gone six months earlier on these reforms? Maybe it's a place of criticism, but you know it's impossible, because you're an economist, because your obligations are piled up that you have to pay, they're your obligations both for pensions and for the wages that someone's made in that way. You said -- there's no proposal for a debt recovery measure, because when it's over 45%, and that's right, we think it should be over 60%, because we don't have a threat when you have the possibility of borrowing to 3%, and we have between five and seven, and we even have it on long-term bonds today. Unbound for this, the proposal for a debt resolution measure is a reduction in deficits. All we do, the complete problem of the IMF, is essentially, the definition of the IMF programme is that, through the reduction of deficits and fiscal consolidation, first of all, we resuscitate the debt and turn the public debt trajectory in the opposite direction and we succeed, and we ensure, of course, lasting, but not only permanent, but sustainable growth. So that's the goal of the program that we've created. And only then and only so can that program be successful. That's why we're doing it. It's just, it's the only purpose of the program we've ever made. You've reached the height of our GDP. You've calculated everything well, except you haven't included a 1.6% deflator, and when you count a 1.6% deflator, you're going to get a 35.7 billion sum, which I think is a very good result. So, our intention is to make a billion and 100 billion and 200 billion and 300 billion and people in politics who obviously don't know what I was saying yesterday, and those who published it, it's a serious paper, so I want to talk about it, which they say -- it's supposed to be 3% of the growth rate in the budget. Well, of course, because we did it with the IMF. We're scheduled for this budget 1.2%, so we have a 3% growth rate. We'll try to make it four percent, and we'll do our best. The bottom line is that we're trying to create a new value of a billion and 200, a billion and 300 million euros, and that our borrowing will not be these 69 billion dinars, which comes to it by 570m euros, will not be so much, but 300, 400. Look at the difference, e, by so much we've reduced public debt, the percentage of public debt relative to GDP. That's the point. That's all the math. The whole operation's in it. I think we're doing it. I am grateful to both you and everyone else who understands the necessity to do so, because healthy finance results in a healthy economy. Healthy public finances produce a healthy wallet for the whole country and for all citizens of Serbia. Also, bringing down public debt, of course, is not easy and it will take years, but we have no problems on the Eurobond or anything today. Our debt is cheapest, in the last few years I don't know how many years, Nenad? Since we've been on the market, our lowest borrowing today, because everyone believes in the Serbian economy, in the strength of our public finances, is absolutely the most. I asked Nenad, because he's been there 15, 20 years, and he knows it, not as a political person, but as an expert at the finance ministry. I didn't just understand what the laugh was. You were talking about the operation of local self-government. Ours is one problem I know you'll all agree with, not another. The problem is that people don't understand that they have to make a healthy foundation and sound finances. It's been done in Nis for dozens of years. I'm not saying it was much better in the last two, but it's been done for dozens of years, not even ten, because they've all been acting like they've hired as much as possible, they've imposed the cost of the city as much as possible, that the expenditures have been spent in heaven, and then they've invented non-existent incomes to cover those expenditures. And every time, our deficit was big. I'm not running away from whether it's your fault, my fault, they're great, everyone. It's good if they now understand that it has to change and it's good for everyone else to understand it. Let me tell you right now, given what we got in the government as a requirement to improve the liquidity of local self-government, I'm afraid that's not the case. Therefore, Mrs Brnabić and many others will have a big job to find a way to carry out some kind of surveillance so that we do not have cities and municipalities that have bankrupted, as you have in America and in many other Western countries. We need to find a way because in the general consolidated state, the growing part of the deficit covers exactly that and takes up exactly the deficit of local self-government with project loans, which I think, seems to me, very well, as German Minister Shoble used to say -- it's important that you have more investment in capital investments than your deficit, and then your budget is good, and then the government is successful. As far as poverty is concerned, it's always a popular topic and, as someone who deals with politics, I understand that. We have a lot of kids who have one meal. One child we have to have one meal is a lot. When you talk about real numbers, it's not like that. When you talk about objective numbers, it's populist, it's demagogue to say, but when you talk about real numbers, it's not about tens of thousands, it's about hundreds, which is a huge problem. I think we should address it even better, and that's why I said we should find a solution and better target certain social needs, but there's no way to do it. I don't have a proposal either, and we're ready to accept any proposal. You say six billion for the student standard. Tell us where to take it off. You got it. Tell me where to download it for student standard. We can talk about it and then you'll see it's not as simple as you know it's not simple. Simply, the budget has been formed for a long time and it's only been possible to move money from one side to the other without control. Finally, once again, with thanks for the correct discussion, not because of me, but because it's important for people in Serbia to know that they are getting, and not to face any disaster, but to face the good and better times that are ahead of them, I want to tell you that I'm always ready to talk about creating a different atmosphere, the atmosphere in which we... I'll remind you, I condemned Ambassador Zoran Babic when he insulted some of your MPs. It wasn't when it happened on the other side. I'm always ready to do it, and no... (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: We have been told that we are apes, that nothing.) Mr. Seselj, I'm sure you didn't owe anyone in those insults, on the contrary. So the bottom line is, for something like that, it's not just who's going to get the space to say it to give someone a political blow, it's the real desire for it to happen. I think people like to watch blood, as it's said metaphorically, not make mistakes like those who say there's a Chacan accent that doesn't exist. There are short-circuit, short-circuit, long-out and long-distance. They're the only four accentes that exist. What are you gonna do? Some people don't know that, but some people don't know that, so it's not worth it. You have to train them on that, too. It is very important that we sit down and see if we can reach certain arrangements on how Serbia works and how its institutions function. I promise you one more time, and I'm ready to talk about it. So, for the upcoming presidential elections, we'll see whether or not the parliamentary elections. You'll have the full possibility of talking about anything, of mutual protection... (Vojislav Seselj, from the post: There will be parliamentary elections? I said, Mr. Seselj, possible, don't falsify my words, so let's talk about it, and be on every box together, and let every voice be preserved, and every will of the people. If you win, we will say, "Congratulations to you, you have won." Serbia must continue calmly in the future without division, as we expect if it happens the other way around. I believe that some in line with the accent, which they use, will have a short outing campaign, and some in God's name will be long gone. Nevertheless, I am confident and confident that Serbian citizens know how to choose, and that Serbian citizens, by choosing either you or us, would always choose dialogue between us as the best method and the best way to solve problems in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8040	The word is made by Minister Lonchar.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8041	Let me just answer what you said. In particular, regarding Nis, over the last two years 300 medical workers have been employed by over 100 doctors. In total, in Serbia, we employed 3,200 healthcare workers in less than two years, of which 1,400 doctors. In Nis, a 50-sister competition was called yesterday, 25 of it indefinitely and 25 at a certain time. The Nis Clinical Centre is a project from 2006, as well as other clinical centres. By 2012, when we arrived, everyone could remember, nowhere at all, nothing was done. That's the only truth, and the money, part of that money was spent. The money was spent without any justification, as all deadlines were broken in agreement with the European Bank, which should not have been completed by 2012, but had already been reconstructed. So that's true. In 2012, we found the place where the Nis Clinical Center was to be built, in a lake, in a bar. We found that file, corrected the records, and the Nis Clinical Center, as you could see, in March, will be relocated. The government cut off the money. Over two billion and 200 million dinars for the most modern equipment in it. Good question, what did you say, are we taking care of the personnel? First, we're taking them for what you said, because you can't have a specialist in less than five years, and these are the facts of people who are employed in Nis. I'll remind you, in Nis for cardio-surgery, which we found in 2012, we grew into a weedy building, today cardio-surgery does over 300 operations a year and takes off the waiting list, who doesn't want to wait in Belgrade, goes to Nis and can operate without waiting. So that's the facts, that's the truth where we've got the frame, where we've got the equipment, where we've got the material, and where it's all done. So that's what there is. The Nis clinic has a new magnetic resonance. The Nis Clinical Center has received two accelerators, two radiation apparatus where it is expected that there are no waiting lists for radiation in the next few months and a reduction in the magnetic resonance list. They're facts for Nis.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8042	Thank you. (Goran Ciric, from the place: Replica. There isn't a list, but just a few more Vulins to answer and I'll give you two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8043	I'll try not to take your time. Every politician knows that it should not, that it is not popular to talk about folk cuisines, poverty and how it is done, because it is never enough and of course everyone rightly will say that it is not enough and you are not doing it right. I want to tell you the truth, the way it is and that the government is really trying. We have 77 folk kitchens, 36,000 people's kitchen users, no child remains without their meal only if they contact our system. You know, in Nis, that we even launched another special action, past the folk cuisine we finance. The institutions of our system have already organized the Studenic Centre, the Red Cross, children's institutions, and make free meals for those below the line. We split it into 1,000 of those meals, with the cost of zero. So, just because we're organized and because we share food that would otherwise be dumped, and now it's done properly. Just to make sure our citizens know how many social protection allocations are, here, last month, for 748.296 users, four billion and 117 million dinars were allocated and paid. It's a huge asset. Are they ever well targeted? No, they're not. To be better targeted, I've been doing what hasn't been done in this country for 16 years, and that's what social protection has been talking about since social protection -- social records. In the next two years we'll do it, it's the only way to precisely target who has income, who doesn't have income, who has property, who doesn't have property. It's the only way. So far, it's just not possible. To you for the benefit of kindergarten or anything, a man comes to show he's got a minimum profit and that's it. He has the right to the privilege. And he came in a 20,000-euro car and we can't connect him to that car. These things will be changed and will certainly be done. And what is, of course, important, is that monetary social assistance was received in October by 107,306 families, which is 261,548 persons, of which 130,552 persons are workable. I know it's not popular to talk about this, but these 130,552 working people, among them is what's at the core of the problem, those who are informally employed, who are not trying to get into formal employment, because if they do, they will lose social assistance, lose all these privileges. They must be handled and the whole reform of the social system is working on exactly that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8044	Thank you. I'm giving up a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8045	Thanks for the answers. No one here is looking for popularity on this subject. Here's the idea of finding a solution to reduce differences where they're least needed, and that's among the kids at school, where one kid sits and doesn't have parents for a meal, next to friends who have every option. The bottom line is to reduce these differences where they are most unnecessary, because that's where growing together and growing together begins, and the way they progress and learn in life. What you said, Mr. Health Minister, is that I am pleased that this contest is being called in Nis, and it is good that we have initiated this topic, because we are aware that quality is neither in health nor in the state, does not mean square meters, and kilometers, and territory, business spaces, that this value is made up of people, their knowledge and their willingness to adopt these new knowledge. That is why it is important that we do not lose the continuity of people who will adopt these skills, because for five years it has produced that a large number of health workers, unfortunately, that and you know, we all know, have left Serbia because they have not seen their opportunities in Serbia. That is why it is important to open these capacities parallelly by filling them with the right content, and that was the idea. And the Prime Minister has recommented the state of the local self-government budgets. I'll tell you about 2004, I personally carried that responsibility from 2000 to 2004, in Nis, all public enterprises were in plus, and there were about 30m euros left to the next mayor, and that's something that can be checked. The essence of this debate, I think, lies in it, is that we will hardly reduce public debt when we talk about the public debt ratio and the gross social product. It is necessary to increase the gross social product, it is easy to say, but if we know absolute figures, the projected 30.7 billion is 30% less gross social product than Croatia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8046	Thank you. (Goran Ciric, from the post: It is not only your problem, it was the problem of all previous governments. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8047	If I may say just that's the problem of our people, we've never been stronger than them in the economy, never, since the establishment of the bank, had an incomparably larger gross social product than we have, but that difference, you have to admit, has been reduced for the first time in two years. For the first time, we have an external trade surplus with Croatia. We've always had a deficit in your time. That's good stuff, that's good moves. You can't make it. You sometimes when you need to use absolute numbers, when you need to use percentages, okay. But it's just the point that we're trying to catch up with increased growth, because increased growth means a reduction in public debt. It doesn't matter if we're 55 or 60 in five or 10 years, if we control it without a problem and increase growth. That's the essence of the whole story, that's what we do, that's all we do because of it, and I believe we can do it. As for reducing the difference for children, it's nice to say, but when you tell people – let's have uniforms, let's all be one-branded, and not one kid in 20.000,00 dinar shoes, another kid in 800,00 dinar shoes, then no one will accept it and start a revolution both against the minister and against the government. So whatever you say, whatever you do, it's never good enough. If we were to suggest it then you'd tell us that you're going to a commoner, and we're living in capitalism, and that's what happens. Look, anyway, what it looks like in the West, where these differences are much bigger than in ours, and I think it's important for us that, first of all, we don't let these differences be based on criminal affairs, on tycoon-crime business, as was the case until yesterday. I think that's our job, and that's how we'd best fight for a different and more successful future. Anyway, once again, thank you, and our people have a warrant that if there's a possibility that there's something to take away some money from some section and put it where you think we're ready to talk and see that we do it, so we're completely open to it. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8048	Thank you. Now in the order of the reported Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8049	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I seem to be the only MP in this House who has failed to read the text of the draft budget law. We got that Friday night, you all read it, I admire it. I see you're younger, smarter generations, smarter, and you can read fast. And what are we gonna do, stupider? And we stupider must be represented in the National Assembly. Here I, as a member of such a group, have not been able to read this. I read 200 pages a day, if I'm reading all day, I'm going to dig into it, I'm going to remember, I'm going to record it, I'm going to compare it, I'm going to do it, I'm going to read it, I'm going to read it, I'm going to read it, I'm going to read it, I'm going to read it, I'm going to read it, I'm going to read it, I'm Why did that happen? That should be declared by the government and all ministers. I was denied the right to prepare for a budget debate. Maybe I deserve to be blamed for being stupid. However, the Rules of Procedure also thought of us more foolishly, so in Article 172, it says -- the budget proposal for a session of the National Assembly can begin at the earliest 15 days of the day of the adoption of the draft budget in the National Assembly. You're giving me men of my 15 days to prepare myself. How did you take me 15 days? Where's my 15 days? The general normative act guarantees me these 15 days. Why the adoption of the Budget Law by emergency procedure, and four other decisions and six laws, and a united debate? It takes me six days to read the budget and at least one day for these laws, these six laws. You've taken away one right from me for no reason, and I want my right back. Don't let your desire for efficiency choke democracy. This is democracy, I have the right for 15 days, to be in progress, to understand what he's saying. It's easy to talk part-time about one part of the budget and it's easy to introduce demagogue discussions and write a speech like that, so hit it. To have a competent debate, that's not enough. Furthermore, why was there a violation of the country's basic system laws? We have the Budget System Act. The law has a special chapter called – budget calendar. It has all been taxing since February 15th, what the government should do, what ministers, what direct beneficiaries of funds for the budget etc. It is then said that on November 1st, the government adopts the draft budget law and delivers it to the National Assembly, on November 1st, and today is December 6th and it is December 15th to adopt the law. I know the prime minister will say that they were much worse before, they were, but that's why they were blown out of power, and that's why their parties came out like this, they barely censure. That's no excuse, then. It can't be an excuse. You promised the rule of law and you had to respect it. If the Budgetary System Act says November 1st, you have to respect it. Why isn't November 1st? What do we do now? You haven't fulfilled your legal obligation. Another thing that is even more serious, under the Budgetary System Act, we had to adopt the previous final budget account for 2015. And there is a calendar on which the final account must be made, according to the calendar, for the government to submit to the National Assembly a bill on the final account of the Republic of Serbia and a decision on the final account and an organisation for mandatory social security on July 15th. Why does it matter? So that we, MPs, could control you, see if you spent the money properly, see if you deviated from the budget items, if you changed anything in the budget items without the National Assembly, without the Budget Rebalance Act. Because this doesn't mean much if we don't know what's behind it, how it's available. You know, we've had more affairs in the Serbian government in 2005 in your government, Mr. Vukic. Let's remember the affair with Minister Vulin. His ministry and he also called a tender for funding NGOs according to certain projects and the competitions were also organised immediately before the call for competitions and those formed after the call. The scandal that echoed in public forced the minister to withdraw it. We have another case. We have the case of Minister Zorana Mihajlovic, who on her credit card to the official minister, made a cost of 1.515,451 dinar, of which she only refunded 619,000 and left a debt of 895,951 dinar. In one Italian underwear brand store spent 83,992 dinars from that account. In New York City, a famous store of 233.380 dinars, some lunch of 133,879 dinars. These are scandals that broke out in public that there was no answer. It was supposed to be answered – not answered. Now, it was supposed to show through the final budget for 2015 what who actually spent and how much he spent. The most important thing is to see if the money was spent on purpose, even if it failed what was spent on. It's all about purpose. The control function of the National Assembly cannot be executed like this, it cannot be satisfied. Furthermore, there are certain items in these budgets, which I managed to look at like that, I certainly couldn't do anything that was problematic for me. From the budget of four billion public television services to Serbia and Vojvodina. Why people? Do you see what kind of politics they lead? We finance a TV that is against Serbia, which is against the interests of the Serb people. We finance Bujosevic, who sets his own salary. It pays a lot of money to go to the football world championship. There's a circle of editors or editors around him that gives huge wages, and the others live miserablely. Why give it to him? You can't change it maybe, but when choosing this REM, you should make sure it's people who will take care of national interests. Until Bujosevic's shift, I wouldn't give a dinar, but I'd go on to privatise state television. Why should it be a burden to both the people on the neck and the state budget? Let him go to a free game with the rest of the TVs, and he'll survive or fail. It is nice to sell, assess the value, sell and finish, swim on the market, not pay for the anti-Serbian programme and as citizens, is not much – 150 dinars, but also as state over budget. They have these items that are amazing. The Anti-Corruption Agency, it's under number 481. - grants to NGOs eight million 514 dinars. The Anti-Corruption Agency has grants in NGOs. How, why? On what grounds? It also needs to determine whether there is corruption or not, and not to give them money to corrupt there, and we know what corruption is about funding NGOs, and you've scattered it on certain ministries, on certain agencies, etc. Atrocity of these NGOs should be allowed to choke if their foreign bosses do not continue to finance them. I'm not saying, the Association of Persons with Disabilities, Fighters, to maintain the traditions of Serbia's Liberation Wars, etc. what they do, which are patriotic, should finance their programmes, to be one of the ministries most suitable is the Ministry of Culture and to know that it has them in its budget items, but you're giving in to pressures from the West, because whoever comes from the West here insists on civil society. What's civil society to them? They're the ones who got that idea out of hand. It's about civil society. Civil society we have, but as civil society they consider these NGOs, and then they ask the government to fund them. In the 1990s, only from abroad are funded, except for those of our standard citizens' associations. Civil society, civil society. Every ambassador speaks - civil society. Every minister on the outside insists on civil society. How long? And civil society, what are they doing? They're destroying the state, national interests, national awareness, most of all affecting national consciousness. A negotiating team to conduct negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the EU - 64,940,000 dinars, so what are they doing? Where do they spend that money? Come on, they're going to Brussels. Well, you can't spend 64 million that easily. For what? Where? Tanya Misevic is in charge there. We've known her since Dosmania time. The grant for "Exit", 53 million dinars, is still being made by the Vojvodina Assembly from its budget, and also by Novi Sad from its budget. When was the final account "Exit" submitted to you? I want an answer from the prime minister, did the government get the final account "Exit"? The "Exit" was held. He's got some kind of tourist function. I'm not against "Exit," but I'm in charge of spending money, if the state's already giving. And that is why I am to give less money than is normally given, because beware, total support for the work of "Matice Srpske" 45 million and "Exit" 35 million. Ludi, the "Matica Srpska" let me and my father and mother. It preserved our national consciousness. For the yearbook "Matice Srpske" the best and oldest Serbian literary journal this year, there was no money to be printed. How they got that money, I don't know. It was for ‘Exit’. Here's the culture. On the "Exit" a little of this modern, modern music that makes me feel like I'm getting older. I prefer to listen to opera arias than that, but it's a matter of taste. But he can't afford that kind of money. The culture spread by "Matica Srpska" ennobles and "Exit" brings us huge amounts of drugs. It's not time yet, slow down, I have a few more things to say. This government didn't have the courage for four years to pass the Payment Class Act. You're talking about average salaries in the public sector. They're a tricky category. You allow a further situation where the minister has a salary of up to 120,000 dinars, no more, I don't think any more, and the governor of the National Bank 550,000, and the Civilian Protector 300 and a few thousand, director of RTS again 300,000, director of the Flight Control Agency 900,000. Okay, flight control experts are very important to the state. There aren't many of them. They have great training and are doing well on the foreign market. Give an exception to these experts, that they have big salaries in the environment so they don't run away. And to the director and other staff that, and if he goes right away, give the average salary to the public sector, a little more than the average, but not 900,000 dinars. Can't a housekeeper in flight control get a higher salary than a university professor, people. And that's what's happening to us. Zoran Djindjic Foundation, 10 million, fljas, for what? What memory is kept here? A memory of Zoran Djindjic? (Radoslav Milojic, from the post: Because he was prime minister. For what? Well, he designed these 12 years of Serbia's collapse. He started it. He gave the system. Everything Kostunica, Tadic and others have done has been working within the system of destroying the economy. (Radoslav Milojic, from the post: President... Kenna, shut up. (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: You can't insult. What am I insulting? I'm only telling the truth. Take this time away from my time, Mrs. Gojkovic. We can't do that. The Foundation bears its name – from voluntary contributions. You all have good wages, voluntary contributions, etc. There is no foundation here for Professor Laza Kostic, and there is Zoran Djindjic. How? What is the merit of Zoran Djindjic? What is the head of the first mob coup in mankind's history? (Radoslav Milojic, from the post: President, please. Rules of Procedure. () What is the coup financed from the West?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8050	Ambassador...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8051	Please, I'm explaining why it can't be in the Budget Law and I'm sticking to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8052	No, no. It's all right. (Radoslav Milojic and Goran Ciric, from the place: He is not alive. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8053	No, he's alive in all of you. Please let me finish by the end. I'm talking about the Budget Law. There is no room in the funding budget for Zoran Djindjic's "Fundation" because Zoran Djindjic does not deserve it on any basis. Zoran Djindjic deserves only one thing – to shed light on the circumstances of his murder. If you hadn't appointed Igor Becic as head of the Security Control Committee, if I had been the head of that committee, believe me, it would have been clarified. (Kedomir Jovanovic, from the place: Laufer and that. You got it, you got it. And Laufer...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8054	Time, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8055	... into the system.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8056	You have 10 more seconds I took from you and that's it. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. (Laughter) Sure, yeah. Take it easy.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8057	So, I had some other things to say. It doesn't matter. They'll stay unsaid this time. I'll tell them next time. I'll tell them on some other points of the agenda, but the government has not yet been able to respond to its commitments and to express these commitments through the draft budget proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8058	Thank you. I'm sure there'll be replicas, so you'll... . Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Kiric. (Goran Ciric, from the place: Replica. He's got to get hurt. Go ahead. You're not in the system. Is there anyone in the system who's been looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Zoran Zivkovic, from the site: I am in the system. You're not. Marinkovic, Vulin, Loncar, Milojičić. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: It is green. He's blinking green. You're blinking. Okay. Just to listen to the kind of injury.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8059	Thank you. They've been injured. In 107 and 108, because you allowed the previous speaker to speak in the worst, most offensive way about a man who absolutely did not deserve to be spoken of evil. Of course, the discussion on the budget was used to personally deal with the late Zoran Djindjic. It's a question of why someone does it, and I can't answer that question, but it's healthy, it's not safe. Your obligation was to interrupt the speaker and warn him that he cannot speak of a historical figure that was certainly not a mobster, for which there is certainly no reason nor his friends, nor his family, nor the largest number of Serbian citizens, who are normal and healthy people, to be ashamed and to speak ill of him. It is perfectly normal for Serbia's budget, where money is given to many things, to make a small difference for the Fund, whose goal is to scholarship successful talented students. I'm asking to be voted on by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8060	Thank you. Let me tell you, you weren't so sensitive when Bosko Obradovic, an MP, insulted the prime minister. He told him everything and everything. I didn't interrupt him. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the city: the prime minister is alive. He's alive, and that's an argument? Yeah. The People's Messenger throws it away. I didn't expect that comment from you. He insulted Rasim Ljajic, insulted Zukorlic, insulted all Bosniaks, etc. And I didn't react. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: It is sensitivity... () Be kind, I must answer even though I do not respond, but the Rules of Procedure makes me. That's how you wrote it. So not all of my answers can be liked, but I thought maybe someone had such a policy to insult, so let me let him go. Ambassador Seselj spoke of ten million dinars, given for one foundation. I'm the only one who likes people's Band-Aids depending on whose discussion is someone who doesn't like them. There's all of you, so cross your arguments and talk, but the president can't jump and make nice patches and share. We'll make a public procurement, we'll get some Band-Aids, just tell me what color it is for who. We'll vote anyway, but it's not my part. Ambassador Kiric, would you like a replica? (Goran Ciric, from the post: He spoke personally. All right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8061	Yes, MP Seselj spoke directly to the MP group DS, with the finding – Zoran Djindjic lives in you. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: So he lives? Yes, he does. He lives inside of us and we remember, of course, what he did...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8062	Please, just don't communicate like this, just through me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8063	We remember what he was doing for Serbia, and the foundation is doing great things for, above all, young people who continue to respect the energy of Zoran Djindjic and who were not even born or were two years old when he was unfortunately killed. I think it's important to keep the foundation working through the support of these young people, the most talented, who get the opportunity to prove their knowledge in the best companies in Germany and to gather their knowledge. What is important is to say, we were consistent in inviting all MPs not to insult each other, not to dig into other people's lives, and especially not in family lives. What's most painful is this kind of talk about people who aren't alive or who have a chance to answer that. That's why we're responding, and that's why you had to react in this way to talk about a man who's dead today.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8064	I reacted, but it doesn't matter, you'd attack me anyway, however you like. The word is Alexander Vukitch. I ask the messengers not to yell at other messengers. I ask the MPs to continue our work. The prime minister will respond to the previous discussion. Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8065	Just to stop the debate if possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8066	Ambassador Seselj, please. I ask the MPs not to receive. (Vojislav Seselj, from the post: I have an intellectual conversation with Žarko. I believe, from different aspects of intelligence. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8067	You know, when a man listens to all the speakers today, and people have to understand that although it is a minority, which we respect, that when they speak so many times after each other, because they have fragmented parliamentary groups, they would be said to represent the majority attitudes of Serbian citizens, and there is only one answer on the other. I don't have a problem with that either. I don't think that democracy, as a form of political regime, has been compromised by anything for one second. Today we faced certain MPs here comparing me with Hitler, and some with no one else at the press conferences they held. You know why? Just because a lot of fraud got their hands on parliament and it seems to them that they could be left without parliament. They also played Vlach when they needed to play many others to get into parliament. Now that they've got their wages, they've compared this country to Nazi Germany, and me with Hitler, I guess because my whole family was killed by Hitler's servants, but what are you going to do, that's probably saying enough about people like that. I can see that this has gone awry in different ways. I see that the EU's ambassador also complains that I said that I don't care what he thinks about internal political developments, but he just didn't add that sequel. I don't care what he thinks about political factors in Serbia, I don't care what he thinks about internal political developments, I care what he thinks about the reforms we need to implement. It's a quote of what I said. But it's not worth it, no matter what you say, people who are always trying to say something will find a reason enough. Mr. Seselj, of course, has found a smarter approach, he is more cunning and experienced, but I will now tell you how democracy is threatened today, and how it was once when I was with Mr. Seselj in the government, in which he was vice president, certainly the most significant vice president of the Serbian government. He said we were 15 days late today, a month late, that we hadn't given 15 days. Both the 1999 budget and the 2000 budget came at least 17 days after the budget that we provided to the MPs in the National Assembly this year. What was your threat to democracy then, Mr. Seselj? (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: There was then a war situation. And then there was a war situation? Well, I didn't know it was for the year 2000. Come on, if you could talk, it wasn't for... (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: In 2000 Dosmania brought. No, for the year 2000, we made the budget, you know that well. I'm not gonna lie on either side, not one way or the other. I know who's responsible for the year 2000. They can't be held accountable with four months of government. You know who was making the budget for the year 2000. Well, then we didn't endanger democracy? You said we had a united debate. In both cases, we had a united discussion. You said four decisions, six laws. In one case, we had six decisions and eight laws. So much for the democracy that applies to us when we're in opposition, and when we're in power for others, it doesn't apply. But I understand, and I can even agree with you and say that we will take this calendar very seriously and try not to get out of that calendar in the future. I'm grateful for that, and I'll tell you one more thing why. Because I realized from all these discussions that it was actually the most serious criticism of the acts that we brought before you. Because it is a good budget, because it is a serious budget and it could be heard by the citizens of Serbia, that it is in fact the most serious criticism. I have one excuse for that, i.e. Two. One excuse is that we had an IMF. So the IMF came here on November 2nd. It wasn't possible for me to leave on November 1st. We need to finish the review, we're in the IMF, which we're asking for an increase in wages and pensions. We can't come before you with an act without an increase in wages and pensions. If we come without a raise in salary and pensions, we don't have a budget. We wanted to make the citizens of Serbia, and we could have prepared the budget before. Another reason is countless technical problems to make the budget look like this, almost perfect. So, countless technical problems. Were we not capable of mastering all this? It's possible, but we've managed to overcome it, and I'm really happy with what it looks like. You've made several very concrete remarks to the final account and you're absolutely right. It's just, the final bill was never in the Assembly. Perhaps you will say, and you will say rightly, what would you compare with all others? It wasn't in 1999 or 2000, it wasn't today either. Now, what's the point? The point is that we have an analysis of spent money. I'm asking you to look at it. Every month, we have a full analysis of the money spent on the Ministry of Finance site and you have a quarterly, with all the public debt, often even on the daily level. I'm just asking you to use it. I also want to tell you how much you've encouraged something that's important again, that we'll be in front of you soon for the first time with a final account. For 2015 we couldn't finish, you have a technical problem for which the government isn't responsible, but DRI. We cannot come without the DRI's stance in front of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So, neither what we're hiding, but we're spending everything very transparently, even what you're talking about, on the Zoran Djindjic Foundation, on the Exit and everything else, we didn't put in the NGO, so we didn't know, but we put it in to know why we're spending and how we spend, what we're going to get to. As for Serbia's Radio-Television -- 4 billion in the budget, 3.2 billion goes to Serbia's Radio-Television, and 0.8 billion, one-fifth, goes to Vojvodina Radio-Television. That's how budget allocations are made. I can tell you that we hesitated and watched what, how and in what way to do it. We hesitated, and we had a political approach, I can't say the same or the same as you, but certainly not an approach that would talk with enthusiasm about what the public service is doing, on the one hand, and on the other hand we have had the approach to see whether our behaviour or our political dissatisfaction are jeopardising the functioning of the Public Service and we are still thinking about both the families of those and the people who are working there, who are going to be left without these receipts, because RTS has not reformed financially. I don't want to talk about the program, and I don't think he's anti-Serb, I think he's a rare Serb, not always, but not anti-Serb. I think a few or many things he's done in a very responsible way. And what do I think of their politics, their tours of various information shows? What do I think about when the news of my encounter with Vladimir Putin was placed in the 12th minute of the journal, which is not news, you'll agree, in no country in the world to be 12 minutes from now? Simply, it is impossible to happen anywhere and to make it perfectly normal for all of them to meet with the president of one of the two most powerful states in the world, officially and not unofficially; where you have a case where they insist on literally angering the people over the "Helicopter" case, where they say -- "and we all know that there were journalists there waiting for the minister," or with the minister, etc., and to lie openly. Well, of course we're angry. And is that why we don't define their money? I don't think so, because I still think it's one decent television. We also have to worry about employees' salaries, because you RTS employees wouldn't have salaries unless we cut the money out of the budget. So it needs to be clear to everyone, because they're not able to make enough money. Somewhere around 19, 20, 21 million euros from our own income plus what we provide them, what citizens provide them with, which we all provide through a low subscription, you'll agree, I'd say a very low subscription, that's 1.1 at the monthly level, not a really high subscription, and that's why we're replacing it from the budget. As for the Liberation Wars and our engagement, I think you should be proud of the Serbian government, and I know that somewhere you are, as I am, precisely because of what we did. We started together with Republika Srpska to mark together absolutely all events from our history, from the history of the Serbian people. That we do, it seems, in a very good way, with lots of taste, not insulting anyone else, with the measure it takes to be. For the first time, we marked the dates of the start of aggression on Serbia, in official terms, and that in, I would say, an impressive way, by wanting to show that we will not forget such things. We hold large gatherings in Jasenovac, not to go lay flowers so that our people will not forget what happened in Jasenovac. We begin with the construction of the Holocaust Museum in New Belgrade, so that everyone who comes to Belgrade knows what it is and what it is about. We also cared about the monuments of both the streets and Boris Pekic, who didn't feel the same way with us, and who was the great one, one of the greatest Serbian writers in our history, to Brani Crnčević Street, our mutual friend, to the monument of Gavril Principe, until for the first time in our city we create a monument to Stevan Nemanja, which will be magnificent across the way from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. When you talk about grants to the NGO sector, I want you to know, I understand your political initiative and I probably wouldn't be able to say the same thing or I'd think the same thing, but I wouldn't be very different from you, but it's here that you have both in mind and in terms of sports alliances, churches, official churches, sports alliances and political parties. So that's just what it's called in that division. So for that money that's huge try and cut it down. (Vojislav Seselj, from the post: But this is the Anti-Corruption Agency. ) No, no, the Anti-Corruption Agency is something else. Now I'll tell you about the Anti-Corruption Agency. That's another question. The Anti-Corruption Agency plays a very important role in our system. Do I always agree with the political statements of all members of the Anti-Corruption Agency? Of course not, and I know you know it well. But they have an important control role, and I think their role should be strengthened, and I think we should help them on this matter, so that we, from the executive authority, first of all, may not be able to judge their work, but rather help them to be the ones who, at some point, may be too harsh, sometimes not quite rightly enough to control us. As for the money for Brussels, we sometimes go away and it's necessary to go to the opening of certain chapters of 20 and 30 people. Today we can no longer borrow and hotel and motel, that is what many countries, from Slovenia, Croatia, have been doing, were renting for a year, two or three during negotiations with the EU. We don't do that and our expenses aren't small. But it's our duty and I think it's a good thing we're on the European path. I want to tell you that I have one good news, it seems to me, for the citizens of Serbia, which does not mean that it will be open, because there are other countries here, but I got the news here, probably the first news in the country, that Germany will support the opening of all three chapters by the end of the year for Serbia – and Chapters 5 and Chapters 25 and Chapter 26, which, you know, if Germany supports us on this issue, then that's still saying something, then that still means something. It means when you are supported by the most powerful EU country, one of the world's most powerful economies, when they look at Serbia in such a way and look at Serbia, with all the criticism and objections they always have. When they support it and the United States, and they don't have it against the Russians, when we do it all that way, then I think it's a very important and good result for us. You were talking about the Serbian Matrix. I also want to inform you that you have been able to see the money greater allocated to help our people beyond the borders of the Republic of Serbia and we are helping more organisations. We recently paid money to the Serbian Matika in Montenegro and other institutions to protect Serbia's cultural heritage in Montenegro. We do the same thing and I want to tell you, in different ways, that our support for Republika Srpska is very important. We don't have to talk about everything at all times, just please bear in mind that our support for Republika Srpska is very important in every respect. I also want you to know that we have allocated three times as much money to our people and our cultural institutions in the Republic of Croatia for Serbian national institutions, for institutions that preserve our people's culture and spiritual heritage. You said what you're absolutely right about, it's pay grade and I don't even know if it's going to be that way in our plan, we talked about it with the IMF, but it's terribly, terribly difficult. Who can do that, let him tell me. It is not our biggest problem where there is a illogicality that the Prime Minister has a salary of 115,000 dinars, that members of independent bodies have 36,000 each, and that the director of "Srbigas" has a million, or as you have already said. There's no big logic, especially since I haven't noticed that they're more engaged and industrious. What to do, if I knew as soon as I started talking about the money, that you'd just call in to get some money, you weren't interested in anything else. While I'm talking about these Serbian institutions and everything else, you keep quiet, but when it comes to money, you're right behind the distribution of money and the distribution of money. As for the Eggs, I can't say that in the right accounting sense we're getting reports, but we're getting reports of what we're spending the money on the Exit, which is big. We believe that this is doing a good thing for our country and for the young generation in our country, not because we like every concert on the fortress or anyone in the government, but because we attract 185,000 tourists, mostly young people from different parts of the world who come and leave significant income, significant money, filled hotels in Novi Sad and the environment, but not only that, it is a good picture of Serbia that you can't easily and simply calculate what it is worth and what it costs. On the other hand, and that decision, I would say a decision and more resolution ministers, and I agreed with it. To avoid responsibility is my decision to the Zoran Djindjic Foundation. My decision for the Zoran Djindjic Foundation is, although I have never been, as you know, a political thinker with that man. I also talked to his wife, and she felt it was important that we settle it in systematic ways. I'll tell you why I personally think it's important to solve it in a system way. You know, I don't know if everyone else knows, but I'm sure you know, I mean, in 1905, correct me, or in 1906, a monument at the corner of Paris and Prince Michael's Street was knocked down. It was a monument that represented half of Obrenovic, Milos Obrenovic, half of Karadjordz. We had a beautiful monument that represented the Serbian past and two, I would say the progenitor of Serbian modern statehood in the best possible way, showing both the spirit and the courage and the cunning and the wisdom and the strength and the strength of one and the other were significant for creating a modern Serbian state, and then the anti-Obrenovic attack brought the monument down. We never built it again. We never picked it up again. The idea with the Zoran Djindjic Foundation was next, and I mean very responsible. I don't think it's about the big money. It's about the money that needs to show our relationship. We may never have to agree to what he did as he always did, respecting the courage and strength and importance of Karadjordje, that I think that Serbian statehood has done more Milos Obrenovic, but it does not give me the right to ever do anything to not put Karadjordja on the same pedestal as Milos Obrenovic. In the same way, I wanted to show that we, because today is the time to do so with the Zoran Djindjic Foundation to show that we respect those from whom we differed, even though today we wouldn't think the same thing or always the same thing. That it's some kind of civilization progress, a civilization achievement. I was particularly proud when we erected the monument of Boris Pekic. It would be you, and Slobodan Jovanovic when I discovered the bust, and it all happened during this short period, all these giants we managed to somehow show and show to our people, and all before that they didn't want a monument or street to give them. I think it's also with the Zoran Djindjic Foundation some said the best is, you said the worst is, let history judge about it, but it's a state's job to respect it and that those who a good part of the population think are important and that they tasked our country to show respect for them additionally in view of the way in which that man was killed. (The National MP of the SRS throws: A monument to Slobodan Milosevic? So I didn't understand you. It would be a long debate about all this, but I'm willing to open this debate on this matter at any moment. In the end, I don't think there was any scandal over Minister Vulin, and that contest was withdrawn on my request because I was politically weak, not Alexander Vulin. Because I couldn't stand the pressure of the NGO sector, which is usually financed from the West, which was absolutely unsatisfactory by all the things Alexander Vulin wanted to change. I didn't have enough strength, even though I knew he was right. I knew he was right, and I knew that those who were used to using the same register, a little state, a little bit more outside, and that they rarely said or did something that wasn't always in the best interest of their country. That was Alexander Vulin's intention. The pressure was so much that I couldn't stand it, and it was my fault, not his. As for the debts of Zorana Mihajlovic, she has no debts to the Serbian government and everything used on any card was paid and returned to the Serbian government, which I would not say about some of the previous periods for which I could say how much money they took, and I see that the big stars are to shock you yourself. And if you figure out how much they spent on private planes without being prime ministers or presidents, how much they spent on private jets. I don't mind if someone picks up and pays for a private plane, but he pays out of his pocket. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Why don't you tell us? What about the state? There's plenty of time, Mr. Seselj, and we're about to announce it. I thought this Laufer was more capable and faster, but he's slowed down lately. Okay, the bottom line is, once again, I want to thank you for understanding what the biggest problem in the budget is, and that's our delay. To all of this, it seems to me that I have provided answers to which some of you will be pleased, to some not. I think we acted rationally and responsibly. I would once again like to tell the citizens of Serbia that unlike our joint prime minister, Mr Marjanovic, who has never come to the Assembly in this way to answer to everyone, I have come here, well, not even Cvetkovic, it is already common, but I wanted to tell Mr Seselj that our common prime minister did not normally do so and did not want to come to the National Assembly to talk to political opponents. As you can see, I'm ready today and I think it's a major advance in democratic, political behavior. I never avoid and always gladly come to the National Assembly and accept political conflict, political dialogue, accept everything. It seems to me that it is also gentlemanly, it seems fair to me, and it seems to me that it is an opportunity for those who oppose the parties of the government to express their views and directly face and exchange their views with the Prime Minister as well as with all other members of the government. Most of you, I don't think we have anyone from the opposition anymore. Okay, I'll wait. Well, I didn't ask you to get up, I asked if there was anyone in the opposition here, not if you were getting up. You're from the government, you're Dacic's product, he suggested you here. Okay, I'll take it. That's what we're joking about. Of course, if I'd done it and it was my biggest mistake, not Dacic's, Dacic formally represented it, but I didn't know that this kind of reaction was causing you the same second. Okay, thanks again, and I really think we did a good job.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8068	Please, there's no basis, he understood all of you. So article 104 says - if he didn't understand you. You insist? All right, you got two minutes and that's it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8069	It's nice when the Prime Minister suits me for 26 minutes on my 20s and then I only have two minutes later. Mr. Vukicu, by 2000, there was no deadline for submitting the budget to the National Assembly. The deadline was to bring the budget to the new year, otherwise it was passed on to temporary funding. There were no other deadlines, but I remind you, before the 2000 elections, we brought the budget somewhere in September of the month, that's why, counting on there to be some traffic, something, so we don't get there in time. You remember very well what the discussions were like within the government about the budget and how we broke the spear and how I arranged for order, first of all, the Ministers of the Socialists and the Ministers of the JULs who stole for their ministries only. You had that too, I hear here, you've been tearing, you've had to rip, if that's true, the submitted Budget Law. This, therefore, is not true what you said about the year 2000. If the pay problem is for employees on state television, nicely this leadership bullument to go, that the state continues to pay their wages, the costs will be at least twice as small and do nothing. It's better when they don't do anything. You said Vojvodina only leaves 800 million for public service. However, an additional 400 million will go to raise more than 400. Was that the most needed moment right now, as an investment? And what's... How much time do I have left, Maya?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8070	15 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8071	You here compare Zoran Djindjic with Karadjordje, Milos, with Borislav Pekic, with other greats. Well, watch out, Slobodan Milosevic died defending Serbia, and Djindjic delivered it to The Hague tribunal on Vidovdan. He thus put a terrible curse on himself and on his descendants.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8072	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8073	Tell me, Mr. Vukic, does Djindjic have one credit for the Serbian people and tell me what credit he deserves?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8074	Thank you. Now you'll get an answer, just a moment. I have to delete the list. We have a terrible system, what to do. Now, you sign in, if you're going to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8075	I didn't tell you, as you can't talk to me about wasteful behavior. I was talking about when the budgets were being made. You said September, you just didn't say why. Because they praised money for the elections, among other things, and because it was a major deficit and because nothing in the economy worked. That's why we had to go to the new budget and at the same time rebalance the budget for that year. At the same time, we brought it in with the rebalancing, because I remember the discussions we had in the government. It's not a question of what else you were talking about, because together we talked about how good ministers are just the ones going to open every day, and they politically adjusted to be from some other political parties. So there's no doubt about it. I'm just telling you how different principles are. Well, it would be great if we agreed once that some time and some frames were respected. It's just that what goes for us should be true for you and vice versa. I accept, there's no problem, just like we've been able to fix these other things and we'll fix it and we'll change it in the future. As for Zoran Djindjic and the debate on Zoran Djindjic and Slobodan Milosevic, I find it difficult to get into that story because... (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Only what credit did he have if he had? I heard you great and there's no need to throw anything at me. So, I heard you great and I don't want to talk about it at all, not because I don't see it, I see one important one. I'll tell you a few statements that I think were important, that people weren't talking about. I can't tell you -- it's done this or that, and certainly it is, but I'll tell you, it certainly is something, but I'll tell you a few things that mattered, because today, when I'm in those shoes, in which it's the hardest thing in Serbia to be, believe me, there are no worse shoes, the heavy shoes you're pulling. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: I can't wait to put them on. I know you can't wait, but others can't wait. I know you would, but not the people. Heavy not because of the weight of the job, but because of the weight of the responsibility. Zoran Djindjic talked about our bad habits, about the mentality of whining, about what I once heard from you, about our griefs and about the mentality of a farmer's soul or of a paradise mentality, how many times we talked about it together and how and how it takes common to overcome it. Such things are in a good way much wiser than I would be able to speak of Djindjic today. Did we have any other things under control at the time as a state? We didn't, and it was a difficult time for a wild privatisation where it was impossible to control things, where there was a lot of money to throw, for buying different media, for the hardest possible pressures from bringing out the worst possible lies, the lies of the type of people we've heard about me and my family today, the worst lies, which when you tell them -- show me one dollar, one euro, shut up and run, because they have nothing to say, because a lie is the only means and way of doing it. I can't tell you that, because it just wouldn't make sense. It seems to me that with respect and in a serious way I answer. I think it is important, as you know today, that this monument common to Karadjordju and Milos, Rados Ljusic, has sent me information in the meantime, is being kept in Patriarchia, and never, ever, every attempt to bring them out and set that monument, has never failed in Serbian history. Can you believe it? What he says about all our divisions and all our problems. Every attempt to take it out and put it on the street has never worked. Each time they were against one another and said that the other was also a disgrace against the first ones. I just want to tell you one thing. Zoran Djindjic is unfortunately dead, as is Slobodan Milosevic. I've tried, especially since I've been Prime Minister, because then I have an additional responsibility, that not one bad, not a bad word, or a too hard word to say about any of them, because they're part of our past, whatever it is you think about, and because I know there are people who respected their work at the time and there are people who respect their work and their work today. It is my duty to communicate in this way with the citizens of Serbia. I think this is a good trip. I bear responsibility for the money for the Zoran Djindjic Foundation. I think it's a good way, that it's a good way to make political opponents, not political like-mindeds, because by creating a different culture and behavior and relationships, and to show that the state and state attitude is not a side and that we don't only use it when we talk to citizens in election campaigns, we're able to do it in real, real time and when we bring the budget and when we share money and when we do what's important to people.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8076	Thank you. Dear Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that today the Assembly will be working even after 18.00 hours for the need to consider the agenda points, discuss amendments and adopt the budget. (Vojislav Seselj, from town: Replica. No, we're not leading the controversy. I judge the replicas. Zorana Mihajlovic has a replica. She's been reported for a long time. Since we've been attacked by individuals for the money we've set aside for this system, now we're going to work with a system like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8077	Thank you to the Prime Minister for answering when MP Seselj spoke about me and the so-called. scandal. It's my simple obligation to answer as well. First, there are no debts, neither my family nor my family, and all the data on that is available. You can get them up to details if you don't have any details. But on the other hand, I must also tell you that you are known for your many insults and humiliations, especially for women and for me. I can even quote some, because I've been looking for this all along the Internet. Somehow, it's to me, I have to admit that it's even good for me to be your target, because whatever you call me, whether I'm what you call a foreign spy, that I need to be arrested, what else I am, an American spy, and then a pro-painting guy napping on your spear, so you said, etc., so be free. I wish you all the best. There will always be work and results behind me. This government, for your information, completed 100 kilometers of highway in 2015, 72 kilometers rehabilitated, in 2016, 116,83 kilometers of rehabilitated, 197. I am part of this government, I am proud to be a part of this government, and I will always try to give my maximum in the results that remain behind me. Everything I do can be checked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8078	Thank you. (Vojislav Seselj, from town: Replica. No, there's no basis. She didn't say anything ugly to you. (Vojislav Seselj, from town: Replica. She didn't insult you. (Vojislav Seselj, from the city: Rules of Procedure. No, I don't. I can't give you my word... The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8079	Dear President, the Honorable Prime Minister, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, before I begin to talk about development, about the ambience, about the sustainable growth that defines this budget that we have before us today, I have to mention one fact, namely the observation that, listening closely to these debates both yesterday afternoon and today, I have to note that I have failed to see a single fundamental remark on this budget. In most cases, these were objections of a political nature that had nothing to do with what this budget had to do with. Of course, I must also refer to the words of some previous speakers and say that it is precisely the main policy of this government, but also to the majority of parliament, and the main aspect of patriotism that is precisely attracting new investors, the best, the most qualitative investors from all the countries in the world who are becoming our best partners. So Serbia finally sees its economic interest as the ultimate and best national interest. Of course we are glad to have a lot of investment, not only from EU countries, not from the United States, but from Turkey, South Korea, Israel and all those countries that have been in the past year, but also I have a whole list on ten sides, invested in Serbia. To the question – what we are doing and who we are working for, the answer is to work for those 500 employees in Teklas, Vladic's Han, for those who are employed in Aster, 500 workers in Nis, for those, Prime Minister, you mentioned earlier, from the company Solajmas, which is to come to Zitiste and that in this small town, employment, in Žitoradje, I apologize, 300 people, to breathe a new life into that small place and to contribute to our policy of equal regional development and policy for Serbia, a complete Serbia to become a modern and economically strong state. What I would particularly point out, and I think it is somehow missed in this almost two-day debate, is that according to the latest analyses by Ernst and Yang, with investments of 1.8 billion euros in 2016, we have become another country leader in Europe when it comes to attractiveness for new investments, foreign direct investment and that we are the fifth country in Europe when it comes to raising levels, the level of growth of jobs in one country. We will continue to bring into Serbia companies such as Johnson Controls, we will work and Minister Ana Brnabic is involved in bringing and signing contracts with one of the biggest companies in the world, and we hope that, with this new model of co-operation with foreign investors, which is that our companies become their suppliers, to inhale a whole new life and one incentive to domestic companies to become competitive, not only in the region, but at the EU-wide level. I think it's really good news, which we heard today, that Germany supported and supported the opening of three new chapters in this month, and that is indeed one indicator of the serious outcome for the Republic of Serbia to improve democracy, to improve the economic environment, the social environment, but also all those social life parameters that are needed to become a modern and strong country. What is also important for SDPS is that this budget is supported by social partners, that this budget is supported by unions, representative unions, that it is supported by employers, that it is supported by all relevant business associations, which represents one serious foundation of the social consensus which is one of the preconditions for the development of the state's economy and for the creation of new jobs. As we've noticed in that area, we're doing very well, given that the unemployment rate is down from 25% to 13.8%. Also, I have to mention the main economic parameters. This is an estimated 3% growth, GDP growth, which is an inflation of 1.5%, and these are really parameters with these previous successful three years that will help Serbia get as many jobs as possible and maintain its position as the main economic leader and economic hub in the region. Of course, it is very important that we reform the public sector, the public administration, to improve and introduce the E administration in full capacity in our country, to be more efficient, to be more effective and, of course, to work our administration and the public sector in the best interests possible, both citizens and businesses. I must say that Serbia is fully, along with these parameters defined in the budget, with these economic indicators, precisely for this fourth economic and industrial revolution and that we need little, with what will happen with the promotion and investment in education, in science, to create an environment in one quality way to reach those countries that are most modern, which have the most developed economies in Europe. What we expect in the coming period is to retain this aggressive performance when it comes to potential investors who will change their location in the coming period and to follow that policy that defines all state officials, starting with members of the government, members of parliament, but also all other state institutions, the kind of economic ambassadors of our country, whose main and priority is to best represent our country's potential and attract as much investment in our country as possible, to create as many jobs as possible. I can't help but mention the debate that took place when it comes to the relationship with the IMF, the World Bank, and remind my colleagues that serious foreign investors, when they decide where to invest, one of the first things they look at is whether the country has, what kind of relationship it has, and whether it has an arrangement with the IMF, what its position is on the World Bank lists. Here I have to mention Serbia's 44-seat progress in the Duing Business List of the World Bank because in one dynamic way, by introducing electronic building permits, by voting the Law on Planning and Construction, a whole series of reform laws that include the new Law on Labour, the Law on Excession, the Law on Privatisation, the conditions for us to have 50 to 60% more issued building permits at the end of 2016 than in 2015, which is just saying that in this country we are already building more, that it is being invested, and that we are just expected to do so in the next period. Of course, what is very important to mention is tourism, these are the results of tourism. Over a billion euros in first year's income and growth potential, both domestic tourists of 13% and foreign of about 12%, to be even better and to make even more income than this business branch. And to show a great pleasure to the tourism industry that I had contact with, with what you were talking about last night, which is to announce the arrival of Chinese tourists, a large number of Chinese tourists and, of course, the release of Chinese citizens and Chinese visa tourists so that this job can be done in a better and better way. And they are grateful, and of course, that they will continue to support both governments and Parliament's activities, so that this country becomes one of the most serious tourist destinations in Europe. What's very important for the SDP and what happened this year is to increase the minimum profit by 7.75% from 121.00 to 129.00 dinars. Maybe it's not much, but it's a clear sign, it's a clear signal that this country, and so, in addition to the developmental care of the social component, takes care of those who have the lowest earnings. I will only point out that in economic theory, the minimum profit is that the only economic category, the only category that is not economic, is that it is effectively delineated and defined by the government in co-operation, and in agreement, and in dialogue with employers and trade unions. This government of the Republic of Serbia has succeeded and this shows that it has enough capacity to talk further, to keep dialogue still in the interest of the union, but also in the interest of the business community, which creates additional value, which pays taxes and which, of course, makes one basis for all social activities to be developed in the best possible and most qualitative way of health, sports, science, education, these are key things. What's very good is that, in parallel with economic development, these other pillars of our society are developing, which is why investing in dual education is why promotion of dual education and integration of the economy and educational institutions, both the institution of high school and high school, is the implementation of a completely new approach among young people, the teaching on entrepreneurship, the creation of an entrepreneurial spirit, the entrepreneurial society. It will be that wind that will help our country, that young people stay in it and that young people here are trained, so that they can work in firms that are most demanding, but also those companies that are looking for craftsmen and who may be looking for a more labour force. But what will we achieve with the implementation of dual education? That we're keeping our young people here. That those who are the best, best-quality, who will work in large foreign and domestic companies will finish colleges after graduation, but we will have those who will be able to live honorably in good factories and work from their crafts and from their secondary vocational schools, because they will be educated for already completed jobs and for the already completed positions with the attracting of new, good and best-quality investments. Because that is exactly the goal, both the Government and Parliament, not just any investment, but the best companies. Yesterday there was a speech, NSR, Coopers, Svarovski. I say I have ten pages, I'd spend my time just picking them up in 2016. That's what, that's those investments that have that so-called. It's a watering effect. New technologies, new knowledge that will employ our workforce and lead to Serbia being one of the most competitive countries in this part of Europe. Of course, I have to say something about that, finally the state of Serbia is working on it, and it has increased capital allocations, so capital investments by more than 100%, from 42 billion in 2016 to as much as 95 billion in 2017 and over the necessary infrastructure equipment, 110km of highways in the past three years alone, and the continuation of this policy that just through the development of infrastructure, the development of education, the development of science, aims to attract those investors who are the best, and such investors are coming to us. They're investors from the United States, they're investors from Israel, they're investors from Turkey, they're investors from the United Arab Emirates. And of course, this way we're going to develop those industries, such as energy, such as tourism, such as agriculture, because we're going to get conditions that, as we said yesterday, literally Serbia becomes the investment destination for which those who are the best in the world are lambs. This shows that almost the best companies in the world already have either their own presidency or their factories and companies in the Republic of Serbia. What I'm saying is that years ago, two decades ago, we're talking about reforming public enterprises, corporates. And almost every year we've talked about how impossible it is to do it with us, but we're also showing through this budget that it's possible. That it is possible to find a strategic partner, that it is possible with commitment and energy, to enter into a strategic partnership with Etihad, the fourth largest airline in the world. That it's possible to find a Chinese strategic partner for the Smederev Zelezara that cost us, only that it doesn't work, ten million euros per month, and when it works, it cost 200 million. Now how much is it? Five million of the backlogs the state has to pay. And that's a model for other companies, for those who are still in the process of restructuring, and I'm sure that this government of the Republic of Serbia, with a team that has, will finish this job in the best possible way and that we, we will already become, but we will be the real economic leader of this region. This budget shows this and the SDPS will vote on this developmental budget, which gives hope to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that it will be much better here and that they will live the lives they deserve in accordance with our resources and potentials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8080	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8081	I just want to thank Ambassador Marinkovic. You presented the budget better than I did myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8082	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8083	I would like to thank Parliamentarian Marinkovic for reading the budget and especially the emphasis on the important laws that we have passed in this assembly, all together and for which you remember how they were welcomed by the knife. I mean, first of all, the Labour Act and then on. Now even the worst critics can't say they're bad laws, even when they can't say it out loud. It doesn't matter. These laws have contributed to better employment, contributed to a better economic environment, a better climate for investors, and these laws also protect workers. I wanted to say one more thing using the opportunity to report here, of course speaking about the budget. I thank the Prime Minister for what he said, but neither he was scared, nor was he broken under any NGO, the Western, of course, which other, was already a decision to consider it better to spend that money, as we have spent, on the treatment of our children. The money was transferred to the budget fund for the treatment of children from rare diseases by the government of the Republic of Serbia. And it's better that way, and that's how it's supposed to be done. I'm really glad to hear the arguments of Natasha Kandic, here on different sides, because I was attacked in the same way by Natasha Kandic and similar, and the attacks on me have started and will never stop, because I broke the monopoly of the NGO sector in which certain Western NGOs are used to taking from the state what they want and how much they want. That monopoly is broken. And from the moment it was broken, attacks started on me and will never stop. For the first time we introduced order, for the first time there was a demand to justify money from such organizations, and when it was requested, of course it jumped from all sides. Another very important thing I want to share with you, with joy, you could ask about it if you want, which is that on my request the DRI entered the Ministry of Labour, and came out with any separate opinion, even infractions, already said that the Ministry of Labour was exemplary, and that 2015 ended in the best possible way. Once again, we are the first to dare enter into a conflict with the non-governmental sector that ruled the country's budget. That's why we didn't allow this money to be in the pub and go into the supposed protection of social protection, or at the very least go suspicious social protection. We are the first government and first ministry to introduce transfer funds for services in the social protection system directly to local self-government. We give money to the municipality, and the municipality decides that it will protect social protection and improve social protection. It's the only true truth, and I wanted the citizens of Serbia to hear it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8084	Thank you very much. The word is Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8085	Thank you. Dear citizens, ladies and gentlemen, I will read the first part of the letter of pensioner Milo Delic, who says – Dearly beloved, this is a letter to the Prime Minister, I don't already know which letter to you, but you, by old custom, when you don't have an answer to boast about your successes, keep your mouth shut. I must present to you the fact that my January pension under your law has been reduced by 13.582 dinars. I have invested 185,406 dinars in your reforms so far. I wonder which one of us will have any idea of my investment that you've forced me to do with your criminal law. I'm too old to welcome anything better. So you're forcing me to invest to make you feel better sometime. I don't think the economic financial dictionary has the right expression yet for that kind of investment that you, through your listeners, have forced me to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8086	You read that to us. MPs, that's out of the question.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8087	Me and part of the pensioners that you've made with your law. Let me point out, we have taxed the only success of your reforms. You taxed people who were before you were born and when you were a teenager they were the flower and cream of society, now I recognize that there is a certain sensitivity and envy to these people. It's also saddening that you and your ministers, this public and TV cameras are reporting... .
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8088	MP, I'd like to ask you about the draft budget, if that's why you called. Please. Ambassador, be nice.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8089	... This letter is sent to Mile Delic as early as February 2016, and until today he is not responsible for this letter, and the connection to the budget is next. In the budget, the fiscal deficit for 2017 is projected at 69 billion. What is missing in the budget is the donation of Milo Delic, who donated 307,645 dinars, and what more than 600,000 pensioners of the Republic of Serbia totaled 20 billion dinars contributed to the deficit's reduction. So, if 20 billion dinars were not taken from the pensioners, and in our opinion against the constitution, the deficit would not be 69 billion, but 89 billion. Further, doctors, teachers, and others in the public sector were taken another 22 billion, and the item is seen in the budget. In addition, electricity excises have been introduced, which are additionally taking 14.9 billion from citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In addition, the government has reached out to public companies, which make a fictitious profit of 15.5 billion dinars, i.e. a profit for what is on paper, for which public enterprises must borrow loans from commercial banks so that the Government can pay off this fictitious profit. When we add up all these items, it means 20 billion dinars taken from pensioners, 22 billion from doctors and teachers, 14.9 billion from all citizens and businesses in the name of electricity excises and the profits of public enterprises they're in debt to, it means a moved deficit of 15.5 billion, we get to the number 72.4 billion. When you add that up with these 69 billion, we total up to 141.4 billion. So if it hadn't been taken out of citizens' pockets and the economy deficit wouldn't have been 69 billion, it would have been 141 billion. Furthermore, all taxes have been increased, rates have been increased by various regulations, flat-rate taxes, etc., that I do not speak from VAT, through excise duties etc., these taxes in total, if we take an average rate of about 8%, represent an additional expenditure of citizens and an economy of 60 billion dinars per year. So, if this whole thing hadn't been a total deficit this year, it would have been 200.4 billion dinars. Apparently, citizens and businesses had to sacrifice some of their incomes in order to lower the deficit by 200 billion to 69. The question is, what did the government do, or what did the partyocracy do in power? What part has been reformed, and where is this order introduced, based on which we can then say that both the government and the partyocracy in power have done something to reduce the deficit? Because, as we have seen, citizens and businesses have given up big money to bring the deficit into some normal frames. Of course, it is completely undeniable that the deficit needs to be reduced. It's how it's done. It's made out of the pockets of citizens and businesses. The finance minister certainly knows, in an economy called "ceterys paribus", that is, when I keep everything else in the same way, I can only compare two things. For example, in 2011, the fiscal deficit was 135 billion, in 2012, 213 billion dinars, in 2013, 200 billion dinars, in 2014 246, 2015 114 and now 69. However, if we take the principle that all things must remain the same and add these pensioners and doctors and excises to electricity and profits of public enterprises and raise taxes, excise taxes and everything else, we reach 200 billion dinars. This means that when all things are settled, the deficit that was planned for 2017 is the same as the deficits that we have had all these years so far. What the government did, what part it saved, when I see by these numbers that the virtual deficit is the same and that it just reached into the pockets of citizens and businesses. Let's take a look at the rest of the budget. He says like this, buildings and construction buildings of 67 billion dinars. Did everyone have to go into this budget, because to remind the pensioners they've been kidnapped 20 billion. I'm just reading the budget numbers, if I was wrong somewhere, I'd like someone to correct me. Then, donations to NGOs, 7.4 billion dinars. To remind the pensioners, 20 were kidnapped. Then, fines, penalties and damages caused by state authorities were 11.2 billion. So, the government is in power with several changes, but practically the same people, since 2012, nothing on this today has been done and fines, penals and damages are still 11.2 billion dinars. To repeat, the pensioners were kidnapped 20. Then, the principal is paid off for guarantees given to public undertakings. The budget plans 41.95 billion dinars plus interest rates of 5.625 billion. So, a total of 47.5 billion for the irresponsible management of public enterprises, where party personnel who make these losses are incompetent and cannot practically pay them, and then Serbian citizens have to. So basically, pensioners gave 20 billion dinars to pay donations to NGOs or fines and foams. Or, say, they gave 20 billion to pay off the principal, say for "Serbiagas", "The Railways", "Gallenico", "Er Serbia", "The Ways of Serbia". These are all companies listed precisely in the budget that this kind of money is given to them. When we look at budget implementation, it tells us that, let's say, in 2014, 30 billion dinar guarantees were activated. re-guarantee provided by the state to irresponsible public enterprises where party personnel are incompetent. Then in 2015, also 30 billion dinars. In the first 10 months of 2016, budget implementation says – 33 billion. So, look, from 2014 to 20016 -- 93 billion dinars on the payment of activated guarantees that cannot be paid by incompetent public enterprises. On the other hand, these same public enterprises, we should believe they have some profits that are paid to the 15.5 billion budget. These are the numbers from the budget. Well, for example, we can see that the state is planning guarantees next year, the Railways, the EPS, the "Electro Networks of Serbia" of 200m euros. Let's just say in these "Electro Networks", where Nikola Petrovic is director, it should be paid to guarantee a 15m-euro loan. The "Electro Network" workers sent us a letter indicating that ESM, "Electro Networks", i.e. Nikola Petrovic, on the Kopalnik, is building a resort for management, i.e. the amount of that investment is 150 million dinars and that is about 390 squares of net space, so it is practically built for over 3,000 euros per square cent on the Kopalnik resort for management. So that's 150 million dinars for you. At the same time, the state is asked for a 15m-euro loan guarantee. And at the same time, the EMS is one of the biggest profit payments in the name of the profit that is within this 15.5 billion. Well, what kind of math is this? How can this survive in the budget? Then, we look at subsidies, 84 billion dinars are scheduled for various subsidies to many economic operators, and here we get this list and it is on the budget list well written and "Endava", so that's the first software subsidy and all software companies will tell you that it's something you shouldn't do. It is, for example, "Majtaj" from Obrenovac, which according to the Istinomer reports is approximately a subsidy of over 27,000 euros per job. So, with thousands and tens of thousands of euros per job, we pay foreign investors opening up in Serbia, a country of cheap labour, jobs with 200-euro salaries and it's called economic policy. We don't have anything against foreign investors, of course, but they have to come with their money, not come here to give them money. So you have absurd situations where, say, our domestic water heater manufacturer pays all the dues. The state takes that money, gives a foreign investor who opens a factory next to it to better shut it down. These things and these cheap jobs and visas that the government obviously has for Serbia were also spoken by a worker named Gorenja, who described what these jobs look like, and you get them from "Jure" every day. This is not something taxpayers should support in Serbia. So we need a business good environment that will be good for all investors, for domestic and foreign, but they have to invest their own money. In addition, we have a budget planned for RTB Bor, two and a half billion dinars. This is after their famous "uppr" in which they have erased over a billion euros in debt and are now returning to receive additional money and nothing has been done for years and has been done for years. Then, among these 94 billion subsidies, we have subsidies to private enterprises, undermining private, 15.2 billion. Among them are "Fiat", "Er Serbia", "Tiger Tyres", "Mitros", "Leoni", etc. 11 billion dinars. Why are all these subsidies in public for example 37.6 billion... The only subsidies in agriculture were allocated – 31.6 so that some money would end up in part with agricultural holdings? Why is it important for us to look at the main issue of guarantees? Why is it important to observe interest issues and this whole irresponsible leadership? Because nothing was done in the introduction of order. If order had not been introduced, the government would not have begun reaching into the pockets of pensioners and public sector employees. This is what the finance minister on the board was talking about. He said that a job in the public sector on average costs millions of dinars a year, that practically there is, as the minister said, a great resistance, that he is left with what Mile Delic is talking about in his letter, which is to go where there is no resistance, where no one is protected, and these are the categories I was talking about. The problem with this budget is that we disagree on the need to reduce the deficit. The problem is that it's not right to ask citizens to ask the economy to give up this kind of money, and on the other hand, a partocrat to keep his position, to keep all his imaginary jobs, administrative, then to suffer doctors and teachers, to suffer the whole public sector to keep the party's staff in the public sector. That's the problem with this budget, not the question of whether things should be brought to some balance, whether the deficit should be reduced. The answer is undeniable – yes. To expect from the IMF and the World Bank, who, of course, takes care of their creditors and makes sure that the state pays its debts to them and that both the principal and the interest are paid, that they protect these categories and that they will actually make the government save where it needs to be saved, and not to kidnap where it is not, is really not something that the IMF is dealing with. So, the IMF asks the government -- how you're going to do the budget, how you're going to reduce the deficit, and then the government says where they're going to cut, and where they're going to increase. So, the government decided to cut the deficit out of citizens' pockets and businesses without doing anything on a party, parasitic system that practically kills Serbia, where people who are the worst come to all the leading places because they actually lead us to the worst. This is why it is this big – 41 billion namely bail payments, 99 billion in the last three years, huge losses that are being made. It was also reportedly a successful story with "Zelezar Smederevo". First, let's say that "Smedereva Iron" is no longer working. "Zelezara Smederevo" sold its assets to a Chinese investor, not a company, but a property she sold. There's a contract that makes that clear. "The Irons" as a firm continues to exist, and as a company there is almost half a billion euros in debt, and I am sure it will already appear somewhere in one of the next budgets or in the implementation of the budget. I repeat, it wasn't "The Iron" that stood on its feet, but "The Irons" sold the Buddha for why it had its property. The Chinese bought the property and should continue with the property, while "Smederevo" d.o.o. It's like the company stayed. He's got huge debts. We've heard a lot from the Prime Minister here who criticized the opposition, so I have to answer a few things. It doesn't mean being in power when you're in power to insult the opposition. It's not just acceptable. You can't use, or you can, but it's not right, it's not polite to use words – you're talking nonsense, you're talking nonsense. The opposition doesn't speak to you like that. The opposition tells you about differences in politics and expects you to talk about these differences, not insults, not disrespect. Then, talking about a congregation restaurant by someone who spent the entire working life in a congregation restaurant, who orders cakes every day at the same price...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8090	MP, is this about the budget?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8091	... It's not acceptable. Then speak, the liars.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8092	Ambassador...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8093	... It's not right. Using the street dictionary is wrong and then saying – I was decent and I chose the words...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8094	Messenger, say it, not say it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8095	So these two things don't go with each other. We need a decent dictionary...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8096	MP, can we talk about the budget?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8097	... if you found one word that offended the opposition, or MP group, offended...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8098	MP, be nice about the budget. The fact that you recognized yourself, you should have called and asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8099	So none of the parliamentary groups sweared, didn't spit. Nobody said anything like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8100	Ambassador.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8101	If you have one piece of evidence, give it to me. Do not repeat, since we neither insult nor speak falsely of others in this congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8102	Ambassador, if I disfellowship you, you will insult me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8103	We need a budget that really saves, that shuts down the party parasite system, and doesn't save by taking from the pockets of citizens and businesses. I hope the answer concerns the facts I've brought out, so if I've made a mistake somewhere that we can have a debate and that it won't turn into further insult to the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8104	MPs, you really weren't looking for a replica, it's not right, but I didn't want to interrupt you so you wouldn't say I wouldn't let you talk, but you weren't talking about the budget for the last three or four minutes at all. If you're the opposition's lawyer, you discuss it now, but it really doesn't make sense. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8105	He wasn't talking about the budget at all, not the last three or four minutes. I'd like you to hear it now, all the MPs, since I think I've heard the bosses of all the opposition parliamentary groups, mostly the former regimes, have all been in different ways, and this man who was certainly my biggest political mistake, and I publicly admit it. Biggest mistake because we've been wasting our time. As you do not have the arguments, neither hysterical behavior will help you, nor hysterical applause, nor slides, nor anything else. I've calmly heard a lot of insults, fiction, and now you're going to hear all the fiction, because I don't suppose everyone had time to read the budget carefully and hear everything. First I want to point out the following facts. On several occasions, the man I'm sorry about spoke on various social networks today about how I was so scared of him, how I was going to escape for lunch, for lunch break. They're just thinking about money and food. A little lunch, some cookies, some money. This must be some sort of obsession for them, so he said, "Behold, the Wolf escapes, he will flee." You saw that I sat still, kept my mouth shut and listened to nonsense. Yes, I apologize, my most serious insult, on account of those whom I have responded to insult that I have five million euros here, 500 million there, etc., it was that they speak nonsense. I think you have, though you don't like it, one of the most decent prime ministers. Also, I want to point out that fact, since he talked about cookies when he talks about restaurants and says someone's ordering cookies, it's true, I ordered cookies once or twice, which I paid out of my pocket. You know, I ordered those cookies for Sasha Radulovic. He ate the cakes, and I paid for it. Just so you're aware. What do you do, I guess a man doesn't like to pay from his own pocket, but from someone else's, which is fine. I think cookies come in handy and should eat them more often, even at my expense, there's no problem. So this man talked all the time about partocracy. A man who's synonym is exactly what he's talking about. A man who couldn't stand anyone, not who thought differently, but who wasn't his worst hearer. To keep in mind, that man fired five drivers in a few months. Five drivers had to be removed, which we had to move, he couldn't fire. We changed five drivers because he didn't communicate with them, because it's beneath him to communicate with drivers, because the drivers for him are beings of the lower order, he's not communicating with them, so their secretary has to tell them where and how to drive him, about which there are written statements in the Serbian government, at the Department of Joint Affairs and the General Secretariat. It's a man who calls on certain citizens here. I see you've brought back your self-portrait successfully copied. Congratulations on that, it's the highest range of your political action. You were talking about 7.4 billion, but they don't listen to what I'm saying, which stand out, they say, for the NGO sector. It is not worth telling them that all sports alliances are entering you, and they criticise us when some athlete complains, although we have given five and six times more money than any other government for our athletes, and that is why we have the greatest sports successes in Serbia's history. This is what the sports alliances come into, and the Serbian church, and the Islamic community, and the Catholic church, and the Protestant community, and the Jewish church. So they'd probably throw that out, too. That's what political parties come to. He didn't know that, because he wouldn't mention it, because they never returned any money, like no donation, but they couldn't wait to come, to pick up that money, but they didn't spend it on cookies. He likes cookies very much, but he doesn't spend on cookies, so somebody else has to pay for it. Once or twice, I paid him for it, and it was mostly paid by citizens of Serbia who robbed in different ways. He robbed them from 2007 to 2013, and before that he robbed American citizens. The fact that he robbed American citizens, that's one thing and that's fine. The fact that he robbed American citizens, that's their problem. You know, when someone stays in debt for a million and something, you can imagine how many they've robbed when it's only a million and something. That's not what I'm saying. That's what his lawyer, his party colleague, the founder of their party, Mr. Branko Klanschek, says so many others. Look, the man who set up their board at the Wizard, he's making fun of him today. Do you know why? That's how it works with drivers, that's how it works with pensioners. That's how he treats everyone. That's how he treats everyone, because nobody's up to talking to him, I guess because he's the only one capable of stealing a million euros from taxes in America and not getting arrested yet. Yeah, he's being chased by something, he doesn't go to America very often, something's going on around here, who's going to know what, but he's still under control. Now look, during that period he got as a bankruptcy manager from 2007 to 2013, to see why the story of cookies was important, he got 495 monthly fees. If it is known that the average fee is 100,000 dinars per bankruptcy procedure, it has included 49,500,000 dinars. So, that's all he had to do at the time, and that's all he had to do, 49.500,000, it's important that the citizens of Serbia know that, and they still won't pay for their cake. Then, when you look, even though he's earned hundreds of millions of dinars, the property card is always empty. There's nothing, there's no debt. Come on, I'm incompetent, which I'm a jerk, crazy, like this, that's okay, and where's the guy who made millions and billions of dollars like this? The one who's had enough of America for a million dollars and a few dollars. You know what it means to be so capable of getting America tired of a million dollars and some dollars? That's what you managed to do, and then you say, "I've got nothing." It's just that one night, all of a sudden, there's this three apartments going on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on. But soon, it seems to me, that it appears and revealed to the general public. He, by the way, proved to be very unworkable and inefficient, you noticed that. We in the government knew he wasn't able to spend an hour and a half. I decided to change it after a month, since he didn't spend more than an hour and a half in the government. He can't sit, he likes to do something else. What he does, no one knows alive, because he didn't spend an hour and a half in the government. There's something weird going on and I don't know. But, for example, he worked as a bankruptcy manager for Dmitry Tucovic. That's why he'd love to talk about all these companies, it's a professional weakness, he'd like all the companies to go bankrupt and that he can rob and steal again, as he's done before. But Serbia won't go bankrupt anymore and you won't have any more business like you used to. It is interesting that one procedure has been completed and Sasa Radulovic has been fined by 100,000 dinars and public notices over irregularities in the management of the company's bankruptcy "New Highway". Guided by the decision of the Disciplinary Council of the Agency for the Licensing of Banks Managers, the Business Court in Belgrade, on 15.12.2011, resolved Radulovic from the position of the firm's bankruptcy manager. The reason for the sentence is the fact that, of course, Radulovic was in a drastic conflict of interest. Although he was paid as a bankruptcy manager, Radulovic concluded bookkeeping services contracts with E Market Capital, whose, not likely, who was the owner is co-owner of Sasa Radulovic. So, he was practically concluding contracts with himself as a bankruptcy manager. After his entry into office as economy minister, he transferred ownership over the company to his wife, Tatjana Radulovic. I'll stop here. I'll go back to the budget and the figures that are spoken. I just wanted to show you this, I just wanted to show you the complete art section, and there's Uncle Cayettan Lopez, the listener to Zagor Teney, how it works and how it really works and what real numbers are. He established all the numbers that are completely incorrect, which will be easy and easy for the citizens of Serbia and you MPs. He doesn't know that already last year some people in the public sector have increased their salaries, not including six and a half billion. He didn't count seven and a half billion from this year, so 20 billion is less than 13 billion -- seven billion, not 20 billion. Chico Cajetana Lopez's reserve is back. So they also forget that from what was around 20 billion for pensioners, nine billion have already been returned. He couldn't count. Then he talked about the dividends we're taking, and they're taking loans for. The most important dividend of Serbia's Elektroprivreda he doesn't know, he didn't even look, he didn't care. Because of the citizens of Serbia, I want to inform you, we have not taken four billion at all. We did not take a dividend at all, and they account for 500m euros, 200m taken from the EBRD and 300m from their capital. So, a notorious lie, a notorious lie, but simply, who cares about the truth. It's enough to say it and repeat it countless times. You were talking about pensioners here. Well, you were in the government when we made those decisions. You've brought us suggestions to increase property taxes in the most terrible way possible. You've offered us property taxes to bring, to increase our property taxes ten times. That was Mr. Radulovic's proposal, an official proposal against which Lazar Krstic and I rebelled. We didn't let him increase the people's property tax ten times. I just don't know what's funny to you? I mention the man who was with me and who was listening. Something you're waving at me, I don't understand? You're suggesting again that I should address you exactly the way you look, or what? I'm sorry, MPs, I don't understand all of this. Then you talked about increasing tax rates. We haven't increased any tax rates. The lower VAT rate increased in 2014 from eight to ten percent. No more tax rates are increased, none. Our result is precisely in better charge and growth of the economy. But they, who care, go out and say – increased taxes and you don't care, you have no problem with anything. And that's what it looks like in today's Serbia, in which it's possible to pronounce the worst and most disgusting lies and not say it after that -- I'm sorry, I made it up or it's not quite true. You're attacking our capital expenditures of 67 billion. You're attacking us with what we're most proud of. That's exactly what the difference is, we're not going to throw the money in the hole but to invest in the construction of this country. That's exactly what we're proud of. That's exactly what the German Minister Shoble was talking about, what you can't understand. Maybe that's why our results are so much better than when you left the government, and the Ministry of Business and the Ministry of Finance. Because we're finally working in accordance with the rules, not in accordance with the fantazmagories that someone brings to the government. You were talking about punishments and penalties. I ask you, I ask you all in the National Assembly, for which punishment and penalty is this government responsible? Give me one. We pay everything, what we have left to pay for Strasbourg by some far earlier governments, from some previous governments. (Bosko Obradovic, from the place: Can I answer? You can't even say, let alone answer something, so don't answer anything that pleases God. I know. You will attack or you will beat another woman and you have solved your problems. It's the greatest achievement of your life. As for the guarantees you were talking about, you really don't know anything about it. Do you know what a transbalkan corridor is? Do you know what KfW is, which gives the most favourable credit conditions, where the company only pays off all its obligations? You don't know. Of course you don't even know what you'd care about. It's enough to say anything and you don't have a problem with it. You're talking about Milan Delic and 307,000 dinars, which would mean he received three million dinars in the meantime. There wouldn't have been a dinar of those three million dinars if we hadn't taken the reforms and listened to you and we'd increased the taxes ten times, as you suggested, and we'd split this country apart and we'd driven everything into bankruptcy, as you suggested. That is why I am absolutely sure that the people and that the citizens of Serbia understand that and how well they understand it. I tried, to be honest, to try a few things that I thought were relatively serious false to answer, and everything else I couldn't even tell you. I really don't know what to say. Sometimes I have, like the kids would say, a transfer of the mud, so I'm embarrassed to see you. Instead of being ashamed, I am ashamed that they sit in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, neither guilty nor debtor. But, of course, I respect the people's will and understand that I made a terrible mistake somewhere when they voted for you. I must have made a lot of mistakes, and I'm going to have to analyze what big mistakes I made if someone was so hurt that they agreed to vote for you. But I believe the people can judge it, after all, so we'll see. I haven't heard any serious remarks. Ending his address with gratitude to SNS and SPS MPs that they would present their exposure without my presence in the presence of other ministers, because I had other obligations, because I wanted to show, first of all, to the MPs of the people, but also to the public of Serbia that I was not afraid of those who were shouting, screaming and screaming for days that they would not know what to do in the National Assembly, that they would not know who to tear up in the National Assembly. I think that's what we showed the argument. The most serious argument made by several MPs was that we were seven days late and they were missing two, three or four days to prepare for the budget. But they didn't miss being obstructed and putting up with 400 amendments even though they didn't read it. So they either read it so they filed the amendments or they didn't have time to read it. And, one and the other is impossible, but what to do is possible in Serbia. We have to make it right in the future because we even have to be different from them. What I think is very important is that we have not only a well-balanced budget but that we have a real development budget. A budget that will contribute to the further construction of Serbia, the construction of our schools, hospitals, health homes. A budget that will contribute to better living standards and pensioners and workers. Workers who want to work, not those who wait for something to fall from the sky, thinking that the state will help them or those who wait for the state to go bankrupt again so that they can personally steal. So, the state won't allow it anymore, and those that different tycoons are funding today, and who can be so bold that everything they know about themselves is trying to get away from themselves, by auto-projecting, so transfer some other people, I have to say that we've brought the budget ourselves with agreement and agreement with the IMF, because that's your job when you're in the IMF. We're proud of it, we're proud of it. Those who told us that this was the most important thing for economic development, for economic stabilisation suddenly became major opponents of it, because they should decide how money is going to be spent. It's here that we don't lie about just two things, there's no great philosophy here. The fight's for two things. It's one thing – how much nonsense we're going to make and how much insult we're going to make that someone can't even get to answer that because they have to do more serious work, how much talk about it. And why is that? The goal is one - to be in the congregation, so that we can live well, and for the people, we don't care. The other thing is -- give us another little bit of power somewhere, not because we know what we would do with that power, not because we have any plan and programme, not because we suggested anything, because, if you noticed here, we haven't heard any proposals in two days of debate. No, it's politics -- if there's a little more money for us, then that's okay. And that's the whole point - the money, and they're a little bit more important, so that their picture is a little bit more hung up and they're a little more beautiful to themselves. That's the whole point. To those serious remarks we also had from the Democratic Party, from the Serbian Radical Party, from Mr Jovanovic, Canka, Tadic and many others, I think we have responded. It seems to me that we have responded with argument, serious and responsibleness. And you once and for all you have to learn one thing -- I can't see everything you write, I guess it's just an auto projection again, you're talking about yourself again, but, what can I do to you -- the point is that you have to keep in mind that I'm never going to be afraid of you. Even when you were five, and I was, and then you ran off with your head no matter where your leg caught up, so you ran away and begged the press to defend you and save you, even though I didn't do anything to you, I just called you by your real name and told you who you are and what you are. And nothing more than that. However, he complained to your Uncle Kaetano Lopez and Martinez that I almost broke his arm while we were shaking hands, complaining afterwards and crying to the press, but that was the biggest complaint. I apologize for that once again if I have inflicted serious injuries on you, I will see that I no longer harm you in the future in this way. But turn off the possibility of someone being afraid of you. I will never fear you, for righteous and truthful people, people who have cheeks, like you never are and will never be afraid. Thank you again for your attention and congratulations on your excellent budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8106	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87. Rules of Procedure, I'm setting a 60-minute break. Thank you. [[after breaks]] I'd like to ask you to continue. Djordje Milicevic is the first speaker to remain in power. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8108	Thank you. Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable representatives of the Ministry, the draft budget for 2017 for the SPS Parliament Club is a fundamental milestone in every sense in several directions. This budget, in our opinion, is specific because it is also stabilising, because it is both developmental and social, but also safe. It's stabilising because we have healthy public finances. We have an improvement based on sound foundations. It is developmental because we continue with the same pace of investment in economic recovery, economic development, greater isolation, twice the funding of infrastructure for rebuilding and building the country, but the funds for agriculture. The private sector becomes one of the pillars and bearers of economic development. It is social because the government of the Republic of Serbia has a responsible attitude towards the most socially vulnerable categories of the population, far greater allocations for social giving and savings because Serbia is still in the IMF programme today. So, in our opinion, three key characteristics are when we talk about the 2017 Budget Proposal, which is reform, growth and development. The draft budget very clearly confirms that Serbia has a government of prosperity, stability and progress. The scale is raised high. High goals have been set when it comes to the planned and envisaged historical deficit, and we believe that this is very important, above all for Serbia's future, is important for the future of all Serbian citizens. We are actually talking about Serbia's future, we are talking about another confirmation of the determination and determination of the Serbian government to make a huge effort, work, efforts to develop Serbia, and on the other hand the citizens of Serbia live better and that Serbia's living standards are even better. So economic recovery, if we look at the parameters and indicators of the 2017 Budget Proposal, the signs of economic recovery are both visible and recognizable. Serbia is today a leader in the Western Balkans region, and today it is clear that reforms were the issue of Serbia's survival. Reforms that Serbia would in economic terms be a healthy country and today it is quite clear that the reform course of the government of the Republic of Serbia has no alternative. When we hear criticisms today at the expense of the Serbian government's reform path and today we hear criticisms on the account of the difficult and unpopular measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the previous time period, it would be good to hear what an alternative is, and if it wasn't for a list of good wishes, that's not what the citizens would want to hear and what would lead Serbia to financial bankruptcy and financial collapse in financial and economic terms. The budget was made on real, not political grounds. So the budget was made on sound grounds and this is a systematic and comprehensive response to the current moment and in a very realistic way it looks at visible and recognizable results in a positive sense in the area of reform, when it comes to economics and finance achieved by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So the government is building a healthy system that has nothing to do with politics, which is not a political declaration, a healthy system that is recognizable, respected and respected in the world, a healthy system that I repeat has no touch points with some kind of political declaration, but with what is life and economy. What is very important, the second year in a row, Minister Vujovic, when we have no budget rebalance and that is a good indicator and confirmation that the government is well planning the budget, we have incomes that are always above planned and we have expenditures that are below planned. So the fiscal results go beyond expectations and that's what's important to us. We agree when you say that in 2014, there was an ambitious approach, but the results achieved are far above the objectives set at the time and this is confirmed by both the World Bank and the IMF, as well as the Fiscal Council. And when it comes to public debt participation, first of all, I want to say that I think that we have achieved two very important goals completely, public debt participation and GDP and a permanent reduction in the budget deficit. In 2014, we made it clear – the government has a long-term plan and clearly and precisely defined objectives, has concrete programme and concrete deadlines, and all this has given additional strength and stability to reform processes, credibility to reform processes, which has been recognized in the right way by international organisations. So, as you said in the opening statement, this budget also includes the development part that needs to ensure growth and growth is based on investment, increasing export volumes, but since in 2017, since January 2017, we have an increase in the minimum profit price, we have an increase in wages in the public sector and an increase in pensions, it is realistic that the third base and the backbone of that growth will also be private consumption. If there were no observed results in the area of economy and finance, we are sure that the IMF would not give consent and would not do something that is not the usual practice, to approve an increase in income during the period of the programme. The increase in public sector wages and the increase in pensions is based on sound and realistic foundations. In the right way, he has the rationale of what we have. In 2014, I will remind you, here in this room is a debate on the difficult and unpopular measures that the Government of the Republic of Serbia must begin. The key criticism at the time was that something was being kidnapped by pensioners, a key criticism when we talk about wage cuts and pensions. However, that was not the point. The point of the debate we had was that we were actually talking about the measures that were the salvation for the Serbian economy. If we had talked at that moment about the measures proposed by the government, the measures concerning the future of Serbia and the future of each Serbian citizen and that Serbia must reform itself and that Serbia has not reformed and that we have not started reform processes, we would not have results today that are recognizable and visible in the 2017 Budget Proposal. When we hear criticism that there's too little to pay for pensions, that the government is too little for pensioners, so you know how, there's an increase. There's been an increase through huge work, effort and effort, and we have an increase, and we have a plus in the state register. It would be irresponsible and unreal if we had unreal increases and had a minus in the state register. What is encouraging to us, when we talk about the 2017 draft budget, is twice as much separation for infrastructure projects for the reconstruction and construction of Serbia. So Serbia is infrastructureally imported in all passenger and rail routes and infrastructure investments for us cannot possibly be defined as a cost. It's an investment in the future. There is no economic without infrastructure development, and through the realisation of infrastructure projects, capital projects, it is a real chance to continue with successful resolution, what is today one of the burning issues in Serbia, unemployment issues. Serbia today has political and economic stability, and this is very important with the political and economic stability of conditions and incentives that Serbia gives to potential investors and, when it comes to reducing red tape and faster licensing, it all makes Serbia the most attractive, attractive country in this part of Europe for investment. What do I want to say? Much is done when we talk about the business, investment environment and business climate and Serbia today is an attractive investment destination and, in support of this finding, says one piece of exposure to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. So, from the moment the government of the Republic of Serbia was established, then 27 months ago, 38 factories, tens of thousands of new jobs were opened in Serbia, the number is now far higher today. The 10,000 new jobs in the chain draw an even greater number of jobs, and that is what citizens expect from the responsible and serious government that is committed to doing its job. We consider Serbia to be good years ahead of us, but we must continue and think that there are even better results in Serbia, but we must finish the reforms. We have to go into the system, how can I say, find the points that have been pouring money out of the budget and to point that money in the right direction. We fully agree when the Prime Minister says that we need to continue and speed up structural reforms, above all, when we talk about public enterprises. Of course, public enterprises have to make far more income, have to be more rational, have to be more efficient and have to be cheaper. Of course you have our support. You have the support of the parliamentary club when you come out with the concept of public reform and strengthening the private sector. We also believe that we fully agree that in the private sector there is a future. Therefore, the private sector is important for the economy, because it opens up new jobs, but the private sector is also important for the state, so the state lives on taxes and taxes it collects from the company's profits and it is very important that the private sector becomes one of the supporters and the backbones of Serbia's economic development and economic recovery. We need to maintain fiscal discipline of control and payment, to continue a decisive fight against the gray economy, and that is where we fully agree. Another thing that we think is very important and was partly said during today and yesterday's debate. In fact, there is Minister Brnabic, too, we believe that the orderly Serbia and the well-organised state also includes organised local self-government. So that a well-organised Serbia rests on, in an economic and financial sense, well-organised local self-government. And the place has to be successful. The situation is different from the municipality to the municipality, from the city to the city. Before a certain period of time, we adopted amendments and amendments to the Law on the financing of local self-government, and it is not true that someone is kidnapping something with local self-government, but a measure and balance has been found between what were the rigid requirements of the IMF, on the one hand, and what are the real needs of municipalities and cities, on the other hand. So no one takes anything and kidnaps local self-government. Alternative sources of income are required, but excuse me, local self-governments need to be more responsible, they need to be more serious, we need to try to prevent accidental spending of funds in local self-government and make local self-government more efficient, more stable and transparent, but also more predictable. Another law relating to local self-government is the Public Property Act. We think it's a quality law that needs to be implemented and that local self-government becomes the owners of public property, because we think it's a good base and a basis for the development of local self-government. Of course, it's important, and that's exactly what I want to say, we're not against privatisation. We fully agree with the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. We're not against privatisation, but we're against unsuccessful privatisation. We believe it is very good and positive that for the first time the draft budget law was supported by trade unions. What's the point? We have to keep earning, spending far less than what we earn, learning that, as so far, the way the government behaves, being rational and domestic, having the right way of doing what it has, continuing to go towards reducing public debt, reducing the budget deficit. I said, the objectives set, when it comes to deficits, are very important for Serbia's future, to keep going towards economic progress and economic growth. If we achieve what we define as growth, then of course that means both a better standard of living and more jobs and a far higher income. We do not say that the job is done, but Serbia is on a good track and a positive trend is visible and recognizable. A positive trend is recognizable that leads to improvement, but a improvement that is based on sound foundations in each sector. It is recognizable, I would say, the intention of the government of the Republic of Serbia to make a huge effort, effort and work to keep Serbia on track. It is important to preserve what we have achieved in the area of economy and finance, as very noticeable, positive and successful results and to start the processes to bring an end. We believe that in the future Serbia will be an economically successful, developed, modern country, a country that will be part of the family of European peoples, that Serbia will be a state in which we will have a whole new infrastructure, new investments, new factories in which Serbian citizens will work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8109	Thank you very much. We're moving on to the list. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8110	This budget has been part of a fairy tale that's been going on for over four years. Of course, like any fairy tale, he has one part that's real, true, but most of every fairy tale is fiction, praises, something that should fascinate those who listen to that fairy tale. If this is a Pinocchio or some other fairy tale, I don't want to get into it. Mahom's fairy tales are based on lies, and some would say lies. What else is said in fairy tales? Minister Knezevic knows that. It's said to be the best thing, that it's the only thing, that it's the first time in history, that it's the biggest in the world, that it's the most beautiful in the world, that there are rescuers, that there are monsters, "Just Steel" or someone else who turns a tree into gold, that solves everything. There's no calendar in those fairy tales, it doesn't matter the time. Being late for the draft budget a few months ago, getting it, not repeating what my colleagues were saying, 48, 52 or 32 hours ago, that it was impossible to read. The prime minister told us, who has otherwise fled the debate, that it is irrelevant and that the most important thing is that it is the best budget in history. That's right. This is very possible, if we agree, and this is possible in a fairy tale, that history begins in 2012. But that's not true. History begins much earlier. There are miracles in fairy tales, there are good fairies, but there are evil witches. After this debate, the evil witch in this budget, there is an opposition in this fairy tale. She's ruining everything this guy does in 25 hours a day, that unfortunate witch comes along and spoils everything alive. As I recall these fairy tales, witches usually have brooms, and since they're supposed to have almost scheduled elections...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8111	It's some horror fairy tale. I'm asking you about the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8112	I think I'm talking about the budget more than the prime minister. I think we'll agree on that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8113	Hardly.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8114	Therefore, this evil witch called the opposition will in the next election, whenever they are, and may be in April, to clean up whatever it takes. The fairy tales say that the debt is reduced, although it is 10 billion more, but it is a reduction, and now you have to go ahead and explain in any way the debt of the state 10 billion more than four years ago. That's definitely it. In fairy tales Sartide works phenomenally. In fairy tales, Basen Bor does wonders. In fairy tales, the ICC and Petrochemy create incredible successes. Everything in fairy tales is possible. In fairy tales it is possible, even you will agree on it, and colleagues from the PUPS to cut pensions by 10%, but they are bigger and better and never bigger. It's all possible in fairy tales. Of course, only naive children believe in fairy tales and Serbian citizens are not naive children, and when you grow up, you see that there are many beautiful, perhaps beautiful intentions in those fairy tales, but there is really nothing that could be useful. What could be useful? Let me tell you. I have submitted ten, only ten amendments, and their essence is in subsidies, that subsidies are reduced and some are increased. I expect the Minister of Social Policy, the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of Education to support my amendments. In fact, there are amendments that transfer some 32 billion from the esthera sector, which means I'm giving you 10,000 euros, so you're paying four years of workers you allegedly hired at your expense in the future. Thirty-two billion are being transferred from subsidies to the economy, I left 9,000 dinars not to have anything, and they're being transferred, first of all, to what's most important for a country, which is education, and that's about 20 billion somewhere. Let me tell you precisely, five billion more for the Youth Fund, four billion more for the student standard, four for the student standard, two for social protection, ten for childcare, two for culture and five for agriculture.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8115	It's been a while.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8116	Let me just say where I took it off, so the minister knows.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8117	You've wasted your time on fairy tales, what to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8118	That's what happens in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8119	The word is Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go, MP, then let me give the word to Minister Vulina.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8120	I thank the chairman. Today we are talking about the 2017 budget and before I say anything about the budget, I must say that this is the fifth budget in line of the Government of the Serbian Progressive Party, Aleksandr Vukic and this fifth budget in a row we received without a report on the implementation of the previous budgets so that we can discuss quality what is scheduled. So, if this were the first budget and you came to power this year 2016, I could support this budget, because there are some things that are positive. But I can't forget that you've been in power since 2012, in fact in different configurations, different governments, over 40 ministers have been changed, but you act as if someone else had ruled before you. And now, in all these discussions of the Prime Minister, we've heard what is appropriate to the government and to you, we've heard what the Fiscal Council said commendably about the budget, but we haven't heard anything that's negative. Also, of course, the way the budget entered the Assembly is particularly problematic, because it has entered beyond all deadlines and thus you show that you respect not only the MPs sitting here in this house, but you do not respect the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You also showed the budget yesterday when my colleague Mark Djurisic said there was no incentive for the IT company "Endava", and the budget certainly does, but afterwards, the prime minister said it might be given, and perhaps not, shows that this is also the budget, and it doesn't have to mean it. So much for the credibility of this document. Now that we look at what the basic, the parameters of the economy of a state, are certainly public debt, is GDP growth, and what is the result of all of your five governments is that in four years you have raised public debt by 10 billion euros, you have raised an average of public debt, and you owe Serbian citizens, and in parallel, GDP growth was only 25m euros per year or 100m. All governments from 2001 to 2012, including the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic, raised annual growth, or GDP, by around 2.5 billion euros and public debt by only 100 million. You've completely reversed trends and now you're talking about prosperity, you're talking about great results, and you're talking about how small the deficit is. Yeah, it's undeniable that the deficit is smaller than the previous year, but be honest, so tell the citizens why it is? Because you took money from pensioners, you took it from health employees, in the military, in the police, in the general public sector, you took it from small and medium-sized enterprises, you recruited it every day in the field, the last dinar and the last accumulation of funds, you took it from people in your pockets, and you were unable to solve in five years a cancer system that we don't have, and these are unreformed public enterprises that are today the biggest losers and someone who represents the biggest problem of the budget and according to the evaluation of the Fiscal Council. So you don't do what you have to do to reform public administration, to reduce the number of workers, to solve business problems, but to go after what's easier, which is to take from citizens, empty citizens' pockets, and thus fill the republican register. Also, yesterday, the prime minister spoke of the lack of large systems with three, four, five thousand workers, except for Jellyzara Smederevo. It is not because you have indiscriminately shut down, you have boasted, Minister Sertic, that he has shut down 500 companies in a year. I'd like to see the criteria, and by what criteria did the first five-year-old from Triestenik have to be shut down without it being put out, say, Petrochemy, that other similar companies, FAPs from the Priory, were not shut down, etc. I'm not even saying that they were supposed to shut down, but there just has to be a system and there are criteria. You can also see what I'm saying about public enterprises in the EPS. These days we are looking at the affairs that are happening on the ESM and EPS route, due to the conflict of certain SNS political currents, which are managed by EPS and ESMs, so 600,000 a day we lose because Tent B is not still in office. As for wages and pensions, you, with this modest and small increase, the pre-election actually, wanted to show the citizens that you were thinking about them. Well, don't think the right way or the right way. When some others raised salaries and pensions before the elections, you said it was a political campaign, and now you probably think it's not when you do it. In fact, we can't have different arches and you're doing it now, not because there are conditions in the budget, but because we have records and presidential elections, and rich and parliamentary elections next year. What I must commend is that it is a good shift, but still an insufficient budget for subsidies for agriculture. There's something a little bit moved from the dead spot, but given the fact that years and decades ago we've had insufficient investments, and that's a little, and I've asked amendments to increase that amount even more to exploit the potentials we have in agriculture. I haven't seen it anywhere in the budget, and I've talked about it many times, and I've asked Minister Mihajlovic why there is no Moravian Corridor, highway from Pojat to Preljina, in that part of Serbia, the densest populated, lives 500,000 inhabitants, no answer. That's why Minister Mihajlovic's budget this year had 374 million donations to foreign governments, we don't know which and for what, but I can see they're not there this year, so I'd like someone to answer that. And finally, the fines paid by the state for inefficientness and for mounted television processes and arrests are 12 billion dinars, as are services under contract, and that is something where you should have saved, not to save on salaries, pensions and other citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8121	The word first comes from Minister Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8122	Thank you. We've heard a lot of things, we've heard who's reading the book, who the fairy tales love, we've learned everything, we just haven't found out if there's a problem in the budget, because it's really hard to criticise this budget. And it is true, unfortunately, history doesn't begin in 2012, because if it were to begin 2012, it wouldn't be a history of robbery privatisation, it wouldn't be a history that made this country a poor and sad country, there wouldn't be this history that sold in this country absolutely every factory that could be sold and that could be destroyed through various bankruptcy managers. She really wouldn't be here. I don't know, I don't want to believe that it's an evil intention, I want to believe that it's just ignorance and the unreading of what's in front of the honourable MPs. Because if they wanted to read or at least wanted to say honestly what was in front of them, they would know that, say, in the last year, 5.5 billion dinars were paid to military pensioners, the debts made by governments before us, more specifically by the Democratic Party's governments. That debt has been paid to agricultural pensioners for the funeral expenses of 2.2 billion dinars, that I repeat to our countrymen in Kosovo and Metohija paid compensation due to the six-war unemployment rate of a billion and 700 million dinars. It's a debt that's been on since 2003, we've now paid it off. That workers who had lost their jobs in these companies who were artificially maintained in those five hundred and some enterprises that were artificially protected, from creditors who were held there more as a means of political pressure and blackmail, once received no salaries, and had no debts and had not had to pay them back, that six billion dinars were paid to severance workers. Not only them, but even those workers who were in businesses with failed privatisations. We are the first government that dared to tell the worker it's not your fault that the state has mistraded and ruined your business, and we have accepted them, and they are paid for the severances paid as they are paid. What was owed through the Solidarity Fund was paid to the dinar. Now these days, another 400 million dinars will be paid to the workers. No employee who is owed out of bankruptcy companies, and only for those who do not know that we are saying that through the Solidarity Fund, you get up to nine minimum earnings. No one owes them either. Where did that money come from? That money came to a better job and that money came from a better functioning economy. This is all the money paid to our workers. You're talking about how the state pays the penalty for the wrong decisions it's made, and that's why courts judge the appropriate verdicts and, of course, punish us. That's right. But who? The five-point five billion that we have paid to military pensioners so far are the result of judicial decisions based on the Democratic Party government's decisions because it has refused to respect the Constitutional Court's decision 5.5 billion for now and we have more. Do I need to remind you of the decisions of the courts when it comes to war logs in Toplicia, also because of the elections, and you know very well why such judgments were made and how they were made and against whom they were made and from which governments they were made? We pay for it. We pay it to the dinar. So then we get all this from Strasbourg and then the RS government, because you're criticising that the Serbian government is predicting money to pay for the penalty, to predict money to pay for those penalties that you left us in, that we've welcomed here, for such judgments. You say here – you did not allow, you did not reduce the number of employees in the public sector, you did not continue firing. Do you want to fire people in the public sector? Shouldn't anyone be working in the public sector or working in the public sector? Last time you criticized us for firing, now you're criticizing us that there's no firing. Come on, it's not bad for you to agree just to see if it's okay to fire or not to fire yourself. We have tried to rationalize and preserve, of course, the largest possible number of people who work and whose work has needs and justification. Of course we tried to do everything we could to protect people and we didn't do it because as you well know, we didn't do it on any party key. If we'd done it on a party key, that's all the people who are employed in the old governments, we didn't think of it. We were just trying to respect every man and try to keep him a job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8123	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Aleksandar Antic. Here you go. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. ) (Goran Ćirić, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8124	Well, okay, well, I can do it when you're replicating.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8125	Let me get this straight. I'm obliged to give the word to the minister first. That's the first thing. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica has priority. ) Another thing about the replicas, Mr. Ciric, you have not mentioned either you or the Democratic Party for a moment. (Goran Ciric, from the post: The party is mentioned twice. ) You are not a Democratic Party. Mr. Zivkovic, what part are you... (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: I recognized myself in fairy tales. I can't give you a basis, you don't have a basis. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: "Not for fairy tales"? Not for fairy tales. I'm sorry. Mr. Antichu, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8126	Ladies and gentlemen, I am obliged to respond to the discussion of Mr Alexic's MP, who during his presentation, and I suppose in that part of the afternoon session when questions were asked, presented one incorrect fact regarding the capital remont of B2 at the "Nikola Tesla" Elektrana. While you were president of the municipality, me and the minister had one serious co-operation, so I appreciate you taking my answer completely seriously and absolutely responsibly. So, during 2016, according to the remonting plan in JP EPS is really a built capital remont on block B2, the thermal power plant B has these two blocks that are the most powerful. There are over 600 megawatts in the JP EMS system. The B2 bloc's remont was completed on November 2nd, and the bloc has been online and has been operating since 9 November. So it's absolutely incorrect that the block didn't work, that it had some big empty walk. Remont's finished second, it's been on the grid since the ninth. It's about an extremely complex investment procedure. It's about the boiler's capital motif, a total generator deputy, expected to result in the bloc's strength by about 30 megawatts. In those seven days, its synchronisation on the network and the completion of documentation is very serious, as it is an investment of 70m euros. So, absolutely responsible, Ambassador Alexic, I claim that the information that you provided today is not correct and that the absolutely correct data that I have provided. It's about the highest capacity in the EPS, and it's really impossible to play with these things, it doesn't work. Knowing that you remember our co-operation, I believe you will not ask that question again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8127	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8128	Mr. Chairman, I don't think we got off to a good start here. And the minister himself knows that he mentioned DS twice in his speech, you can check from him. You're not giving me the right to a replica. I am advocating Article 104 in paragraph 2 says that if a parliamentary group is mentioned, the head of the parliamentary group has the right to reply. I don't see any reason not to give that right. I'm not going to abuse this advertising of the Rules of Procedure right now. So you violated Article 104(2) by giving no right to replication. It's not good that we start this way, because it obviously raises tension and there's no reason not to answer the arguments made by the minister or any other minister. I think it's important that you give us all a future right. I think you have a chance to admit that you've made a mistake in holding a session and not giving in to Article 104, and I say once again I'm giving up the replica because I don't want to abuse the advertising of the Rules of Procedure to answer the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8129	Thank you, Mr. Kiric. From what I understand, you don't want the National Assembly to take up voting day. (Goran Ciric, from the post: I want to make a statement that it was an injury to the Rules of Procedure. - Yes, you do. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure, but I don't think Mr. Wallin mentioned how you said twice DS. Among other things, since you mentioned Article 104(3) says that the exercise of the rights set out in Articles 1 and 2 of this article is decided by the President of the National Assembly, in particular by the chairman of the National Assembly. Mr. Aleksic, you have the basis for the replica, you will get the word, you are mentioned twice by Minister Antic, but first I must give the word to Minister Dr. Dusan Vujovic. Here you go. The minister has given up. Replica, MP Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8130	Thank you. As for Minister Antić, I asked a parliamentary question this morning based on the information I received, and regarding this problem and of course we cooperated very well in the previous period and I welcomed your choice precisely because we implemented major projects together in the municipality of Trstenik. But what Mr. Vulin was saying is, in fact, he's talking about continuing a serious campaign that you haven't been going out of since 2012. And you all the time by replacing the thesis you want to try to present to the citizens of Serbia what prosperity they actually live in, in principle whether you trust us or trust your eyes and what you feel every day in your everyday lives. The fact that this government and all previous Vucic's governments are alienated from the citizens, that's exactly what the testimony is about. So, as far as rationalization is concerned, and she unfortunately referred only to those who are not SNS, and to these data it's almost impossible to come, and we're the only country in which unemployment is reduced, and there's no increase in the number of employees, and of course that's something that's going to pay some other governments, and that's going to pay off after you and pay back the debts, as you're saying today that you're paying back someone's previous even though you're full five years in power. As for you and your resources, I have a special question here and I'm glad you're here. So, 123-124 thousand people live in the town of Kruševec, in Triestenik, 43,000. There are 700 users of social money assistance in Trstenik, in Kraševec more than 10 times than in Trstenik, 7,200. So I'd like you to tell me, by what criteria are more social cases in the town of Krusevec than it is in Tristenik, because there's no logic here, or are there certain intentions politically related to campaigning, pre-camping, and all other things? Of course, we've faced this, but we can't get to that data transparently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8131	Thank you, Mr. Alexic. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8132	So, as we can see, not a single number I've taken and not a single debt left to solve is questionable. All facts are facts and we serve everything and we manage to pay everything because employment is increased. I know it's hard to admit, but the numbers are simply inexorable. Since 7 December 2013, when a ban on public sector employment was imposed, the number of public sector employees decreased by 55,775 - fact. The number of private sector employees increased by 138,723- fact. This is based on data on the payment of mandatory social security. It's money. Or someone came and paid us 13.4 billion dinars more into the PIO fund's budget out of pure satisfaction, out of pure intent to enjoy paying 13 billion dinars of autistic initiatives, or 128,723 people who pay regular contributions were employed. There's no third answer. Choose which one you prefer. Feel free to choose, but this is the truth. Don't replace the thesis, no one said that Serbian citizens live great. They don't live. They live very hard. What we managed to do, we were able to stop the collapse, and now we're slowly moving up, and that shows all the data. And even the profit data. To live very hard on Serbian citizens, they absolutely live very hard. We hope to make life more bearable and better. And what you mentioned about the social work centre and the different number of users of financial social assistance in Triestenik and Kruševec, and we need our viewers to know that, you know very well what you said, why you said that. Maybe our viewers don't know that. The social work center policy determines the local self-government, the one where you ruled the Trieste all these years. The director of the Social Labour Centre is appointed by the local self-government assembly, not the labour minister. The minister only gives consent to what you gave. All the solutions on social financial assistance in the first degree are issued by you, the Centre for Social Work at the site. All one-time social assistance is issued without question by the Ministry of Labour again in the first degree. So there's not even the possibility of a complaint. Why a particular centre and to which, each centre decides independently in accordance with the law. So, according to the law. So it was in Tristenik, so it was in Krusevec, Belgrade, Novi Sad. Who does this to me when the social work center is doing it, when you did it until yesterday, and by yesterday, you appointed the director of the Social Labour Center. It's you till yesterday. Not the Ministry. You don't know the law. (Miroslav Aleksic, from the place: The same is now... ) It does not matter who the director is, but who set him up, and the director sets up a congregation of municipalities, and the Ministry gives only consent, no more than that. So you decide who he is. So, so far, you've run that policy and how you led it is. Don't transfer it to other organs, and especially don't accuse other centres of something like that. (Miroslav Aleksic, from the post: It is a disrespect of the law. No, it's not about disrespecting the law. So, every social work center in line with the law that is users of financial welfare, and you know that you've been setting these people up. If you weren't satisfied with their work, why didn't you replace them, but now you're unhappy when you're an opposition. But, well, it's already common manners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8133	Thank you. We are continuing to work on the order of the registered Members of the People's Parliament. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8134	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, the Honorable Chairman, just to get their colleagues out, some to turn their backs. They can easily do that to me, I can hardly trust them. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have in this short period made a state that can live off its incomes. It's not a fairy tale, it's real. If we're going to talk fairy tales, and my fellow farmer just gave the wind to the fifths, then I could talk about how they used to spend unearthed, what their budgets were, how they knew how money was spent, not how it was made, how they lived off the man in charge, not what they earned. I believe this budget is a household forecast for a good host. I could talk about this, about the enormous energy of a people who wanted to have this kind of budget in 2000, when those who have now come out, who call me a bully, looking for me in rooms to beat me, spit me, insult me... We could talk about how we spent huge energy to have a budget like this one day, and then those who led us, those who went out, failed, borrowed, sold a set of social assets, fired hundreds of thousands of workers, so today we have 400,000 at least contributions to PIO, to the Health Fund, etc. Today they resent, a poor host resents a good host and they say we're in a fairy tale. No, they live like a fairy tale, and the people let them live like a bass. It's a situation we've encountered, and it's a situation where we've tried to get the state out of the fungi, to unite about the problem, and that our unification is the result of this budget. My fellow farmer is out. He didn't want to hear that agriculture this year got 3 billion and 600 million more. The agricultural division got 8% higher, and the subsidies in agriculture got 10% higher. The government rewarded the farmers. The government also rewarded the workers. She rewarded the brothers by the blisters, the brothers by the torture. She rewarded the higher incomes, but agriculture gave it up in a certain way. You were certainly witnesses when these prone to non-violence rolled here with a stick to beat me when we passed the Agricultural Land Act. The law, and the agriculture minister knows it, put more than 100,000 hectares of land into the system and brought more millions of euros into the budget. Then the government made amends to farmers by giving more incentives, more direct payments, more funds, and what is most important will not be supported by farmers from Vračar's pasture, those who came out, but will be supported by farmers, and most of all by small, not millionaires from Vračar and Vračar's pasture, who will use it to rebuild the machinery. These are rural development funds increased by almost 30%. There will be processing funds, and it will be ideal to combine agricultural production, that what farmers produce, workers in factories, in plants that are closer to the place of production, and so it will be work and bread for both, and for others, and that some who encourage from the countryside someday wish to return to that village, to return to the property of their fathers and grandfathers, to return to the property of those who made this state. It's a story of the great economic gromats. My fellow farmer is the biggest economic gromat since that leader of Rodney's witnesses. So these are the largest two economic gromads, two of the biggest economic analysts, two of the biggest economists in Serbia, with the one from the virtual economy, which I call Rodney Del Bo, not being allowed on a single farmer's TV duel. This is where our people could best see the difference between real economic policy and the virtual one that is placed across social networks, etc. It is my duty to support both the Ministry of Agriculture and the Government, to support those who regulate the state, instead of those who have harassed it so far, to support the leaders who are willing to make other leaders, who are willing to make progress by catching up with the problem and solving it, and these former leaders are not the solution. They are a problem for every solution, and that is why I believe that our citizens cannot find any justification for who should be voted for, for that kind of critic. I am not defending neither this time nor the government, defending the state, defending those who regulate and defending the right of the Serbian state to exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8135	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. The word has a folk letter from Natasa Micic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8136	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the ministry, it is true that it is almost a regular practice to discuss budgets at the last minute, that is, with a delay, and that is not a problem for us, especially since the minister has offered a good explanation, and that the talks with the IMF have not been completed, so it is acceptable for us. However, what is unacceptable is that no final account has been submitted for the previous year. If in this country every firm has an obligation to file a final account, I think it would have to be respected by the government and has that obligation. I also mention this for the reason that a lie has been made today, that no final account has ever been submitted. So, the final bill was filed by Djindjic's government, for the first and last time in 2002. I can't believe all the following governments didn't meet that obligation, that he raised the scale so high in that regard. If we didn't tell you about it, today some MPs are sitting here, some ministers who were either part of the ruling majority or opposition, that both resolution ministers and prime ministers spoke with parliamentary groups and before the amendments were submitted, in order to make the budget better prepared. So let this, hopefully, be used for future or any other government, anyway. Okay, most of the time it's been heard -- the budget's good, it's a good budget, and there are really things that we in LDP also say are good. It is a respected reality. It's not some huge budget, when you look at 10 billion euros, that one city of Vienna has over 13 billion euros in budget. So we don't even have any big funds. Also, for the first time these project loans were envisaged, that the deficit fell to 1.7%, that the projected growth was 3%. It's all really good, and we have to agree that it's good, if nothing else, and because we respect the institutions and this country, and the most credible institution for it is the Fiscal Council, and the IMF as an international institution that actually took part in this budget. However, of course we have a grudge and we expected this budget proposal to be better. In the first place, we expected taxes and contributions to profits to be reduced. In fact, the prime minister mentioned this a month ago that it is possible, and of course these parafiscal impositions, because this is a way to further strengthen the private sector, and to eradicate the grey economy. Of course, and to increase employment. Furthermore, they are slow and inefficient and reforming public enterprises. Indeed, this is still very slow. It is a better tax charge and it is commendable, but on the other hand, the Tax Administration is still not modern and efficient and should work on it. I'd like to mention one piece of information that no one has mentioned, and it's very important for the economy, which is that we're in the global competitiveness index of the 1990s. The good news is that for four places compared to the previous year, we improved. But given that, let's say, one Albania and one Montenegro managed to advance 13 places and by these parameters, for this index of global competitiveness, and it has 12 parameters, we're actually recording the biggest decline in technological skills. Now my appeal to the minister of education and to the entire government is, and I have already talked about it, information not only for students, but also for professors, the same goes for public enterprises, to provide those European computer licenses to ECDL, as they are called, to work on it, because this is a way to raise competitiveness. Of course, in the end, no budget, no matter how well projected and how good they are, unless general policy is a European policy, regional co-operation, political stability, there is no economic stability without political stability, and therefore it should not be too often and very dangerous to open, for example, issues of coups and games and in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8137	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8138	Thank you very much. I wanted to comment a little while ago, but my colleagues have already looked back enough on previous presentations. I'm glad the discussion is turning to this document that's on the agenda today, where we're having a general debate and where we're going to have a chance to discuss the details on Thursday and Friday, I hope. Also, I want to commend the good wishes of all those who, both critics and constructive proposals, help us to do things better. I heard Mr. Zivkovic, that part of the figurative speech at first I won't comment on, but the other part that talks about subsidies will certainly be considered in the form of amendments to be sent to the government. It is easier to suggest than to adopt a change in subsidies, because there are elements that have been inherited, some rights that have been inherited. Therefore, the very fact that questions are being asked should begin the process. I don't know how fast we're going to be able to react right now, but that people, MPs first of all, and everyone else has to ask questions about the overallity of certain subsidies, levels and everything else, is certainly the right way to discuss the budget. Therefore, we have subsidies all together at a very high level, but in many areas we can talk differently and deeper about all of it, to see what part of the subsidies we can't do overnight, what part of the subsidies we can improve in the way they are dimensioned and how they are targeted to focus on those segments or populations or sectors where we want to support certain changes. So it's a subject that requires a lot of discussion and we're sure to look at everything. As for the concrete proposals mentioned in some of the shares, I can tell you that some of them are already under consideration. We have long recognized, say, that these lateral directions, such as Pojate – Preljena, etc., are important directions and are already working on it. How long it will take us to come up with concrete proposals and ideas from that beginning, and then to realize, it will depend on many factors. Among other things, from the quality of studies to be done for relatively small money at the beginning, and afterwards the possibilities of realization. But make sure we think about it very intensively and try to hire the most reputable companies in the world to help us, those who know and project and perform. The proposal, or questions about the final bill, I can only tell you the part that we do. We handed over the final bill in the deadlines in June and July. The government was a technical government, therefore, unable to consider a final account that had adequate obligations until 11 August. Afterwards, we handed over the final bill, as it goes according to procedure, to the State Auditing Institution and in the meantime she held a conversation with us on the already completed report. Now we're in the final phase, only because of short deadlines, we're not done. The prime minister didn't promise, and here I promise that in the shortest possible time, the document is finished, it's just going to be finalized, where in the shortest possible time, the final account, in which there is no spectacular news, surprises, just confirms that we have realised the budget, just as we reported monthly and quarterlyly about 2015, that you will have the opportunity to see it. As far as public enterprises are concerned, we have already found on the Committee in previous discussions that this remains a key issue of this economy. It's the heart of structural reforms. It's something that we have to solve, and double, whether on the side of inefficient public enterprises, either on the side of the fiscal and financial discipline that they assume and expect from all of us. So, the question, let's say, is, for example, "Srbigas" is not only a question of "Serbiagas", but it's a question of what conditions "Serbiagas" is doing and whether there are conditions to charge the gas delivered and therefore to solve both "Serbiagas" and the issue of using gas and the issue of fiscal discipline, because we take over at the end of the debt not paid to them by gas users, and on the other hand, that everyone commits to meet those obligations in time. I fully agree, so one of the key reforms that we are proposing is the conclusion of tax administration reform, customs, their modernisation and the improvement of the efficiency of the entire sector. As for the Global Competitiveness Index, I think you're talking about the World Economic Forum of Davos. It's been the subject of analysis for a long time. We're moving that we've achieved into so-called. Indicator of Duing's business, it's short-term shifts where you work on the inputs. The World Economic Forum measures some three areas – one is the basic assumptions of competitiveness, the other are elements that measure market efficiency and the third, what concerns you the most, and me, too, is so-called. Business sophistication, how much business is willing to accept modern management and be really competitive. Well, that's where we expect those things we're doing to have a very quick effect. For example, for me, it was alarming that Serbia today has a lower degree, the capacity to accept foreign technology that includes an organisation than it did 15 or 20 years ago. That is, among other things, the result of the outflow of personnel. It's the result of many things we have to put into order. We're following closely what's going on here and we have a plan for each of these 12 pillars within three areas. It fits into what we do, but it takes time and we expect shifts in the coming periods. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8139	Thank you, Minister Vujovic. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8140	Dear MPs, let me just give you a quick answer that we've been planning funds for the so-called budget. The digital maturity of the facility and we'll start with about 200 schools, which is a hundred miles from some remote areas, to say more underdeveloped, and a hundred from the urban ones. We also have lateral sources, where we'll include probably a hundred more facilities. We use experiences from the region, we co-operate with schools from Croatia, Slovenia, the Czech Republic, Hungary. They have withdrawn over 230m euros from European funds, here, for six years. So we move more modestly, but with some great enthusiasm, with the help and economy and various others, we hope, European funds, if chapters 25 and 26 really are realized, then we will speed up that story. Anyway, we're working on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8141	Thank you. The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8142	The budget we are talking about today says that Serbia will look like in 2017, the sixth year of the SNS government. In these six years, have the citizens been living better? Will something change in Serbia after the adoption of this budget? Has something changed in the past six years, except for changing the names of Serbia's most powerful financial tycoon? Now they're not the richest ones the old ones, now they're the richest of the new ones. And what does that mean for the lives of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia? Is there a way in this budget for families with two children to pay their bills more easily tomorrow? Can he take these kids for a vacation, can he pay for their foreign language school, can he pay for their private lessons because it's the only way these kids have a good time at school? No, I don't. Does this budget we adopt today work for married couples who don't know what they're gonna do every month when they get paid for a loan? No, I don't. Does this budget work for all those people who have their own professions that this government doesn't appreciate? Does he work for people who are about to leave the country? Does he work for those who still hope there's a future in this country? The answer is no. This budget does not work for a doctor, for a teacher, for a farmer, for a soldier who keeps the border in southern Serbia for 75 dinars a day. For them, there is no money in this budget, but there is money to pay loans to failed public enterprises, there is money to hire thousands of party activists, there is money to give tens of billions of dinars to companies that hire people for 23,000 dinars a month, and these people after 15 stand on tape and carry diapers while they do it. There's no money in this budget for Vojvodina either. You are also trying to put into the region's budget transfer funds for local self-government and salaries for teachers, teachers and teachers and all those funds that will be kept in the account of the AP Vojvodina for just one day, all trying to show that you meet those shameful 7% of the Republic of Serbia's budget, and yet the prime minister here yesterday has a face to tell us about how an Autonomous province is given something. Now, that's the problem with the government of the Republic of Serbia run by the SNS because you all keep thinking that you're giving citizens something by your mercy, by your kindness, without you even having to give it to them. There is no solution in this budget for any problem, there is no reform, and what is most problematic, there is no way for those who do not want to kneel before your party or your employers. That's the Serbia you're following, all you need to be aware is that people live in Serbia who won't be able to endure that kind of behavior much longer.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8143	Thank you. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8144	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I have listened in several final discussions and I have to correct that one incorrect information. In fact, this is about six years of someone's authority. I have to tell you, the citizens will remember that, the SNS came to power during the summer of 2012. If we also consider presidential elections, let's consider them, therefore, during the summer of 2012. It's up to this point four years and four months, so you can't even say four and a half years away, it's five years away, and six can't even be talked about. You can talk about calendar years, but you can't talk about six years or so. So it's one information that's being placed to make it look, it's, of course, an old opposition manor and it's quite all right, it's legitimate, it looks like it's been a long time, it's now six years, 16, 666 and it's okay. But it would be good to hear what the criticism of this budget is. So, the budget review, it seems to me when I listen to this like we're back in that government election session, it seems to me that the same objections, so nothing has changed, as if someone had mixed up the sessions. A few more important things. First, how were the people in charge of loans 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012? How were these people when their conditions changed overnight, when they dramatically jumped loans, when their wars were such that they thought about whether their children would have an existence if they paid the loan war and if someone warned them about it, did someone compensate them for it? Did he try to solve their problem in 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012? I'll tell you, it's not. They were not interested not only in the owner of the Swiss franc loan, they were not interested in the owner of the euro loan, nor in the clause of any other currency. No one from the government at the time, which was done by those who today are trying to honor this government, not that they weren't interested, did they make statements in Mickey's entertainer. They ran away from it like the devil from the cross. No attitude towards the citizens. Absolutely nothing, nothing. Zero, absolute zero. That's what Serbian citizens got from these governments. Now, if they only got zero, that might be good, but they got a serious minus. Serious minus since employment in the public sector was then abnormally increased. At that time, the army of party listeners was dramatically employed, just those parties, and then the number of public sector employees increased to this extent that Serbia could no longer endure it. At the time of this government, by 55,000 people, the exact number of 55,785 people was reduced by the number of public sector employees, but the number of private sector employees increased. Minister Vulin explained this well because these people were paying their contributions. These people are making contributions and it's a concrete and exact piece of information, because either someone is paying contributions because they work or someone wants to give it to the Serbian government, and I believe that nobody wants to, no one gives their money. So more people employed, much more in the private sector. People in the public sector aren't hiring right now. Then at that time when they didn't worry about people's loans and 2009 and 2010 and 2011 and 2012, then the army of party soldiers, the parties that made up the government, was hired. As for soldiers and police officers, I must tell you that those soldiers and police officers working to secure the state border within the United Forces of the Army and the police, have special diaries, special compensations, and do not receive 75 dinars, they receive a significantly higher figure. A significantly larger figure is received, which ranks about 1,800 dinars a day. So that's the money they receive, plus their regular receipts, regular salaries and all that they have in addition because they work longer. Do they do easy work? No, I don't. I've said it many times as Minister of the Interior. I think people in the police and the military are doing the hardest job. They do the hardest jobs, work on all weather conditions, and while we all sit here in warm benches and in parliament MPs enjoy good conditions, people from the police and the military work in difficult conditions. But what we, unlike some previous years, had to wait, to be terrified, not to tell you what situations both the military and the police had in many segments ten years ago, look how they got there. We can enter into a debate as to what condition the planes and the Air Force and armored vehicles and combat armored transporters and everything that, I say, were found, all that and in what state they are today, it's not even for comparison. It was far worse before, far worse, far more exploited and almost uninvested, that we came to an extent that our Air Force had barely a few aircraft capable of taking off, so with the great efforts of the government since 2012 to date it has been improved to a level that the Air Force can function. I'm saying this because my colleague Djordjevic isn't here right now. I'm sorry I didn't see him. I didn't see him. In any case, what the military and police are doing today is commendable and the state is trying to give them as much as it can. I also did an analysis of the increase in the salaries of people working in the police, from those who have the lowest salaries to those who work in special and special units and their salary increases on an annual basis will be between 28-29,000 and 50,000 final with a member of the gendarme, whose salary is about 80,000. I didn't include any of the elders' salaries, because these people work in the field, too. Being elders doesn't mean that they work less than people who, I say, are ordinary members of the police and the military. And these people work in the field both in the military and in the police, their salaries will be collected for years. When it's added to the separations for the PIO, it's the same thing that goes to them. The pensions will be increased for so long, they will be increased by so many social benefits. You get numbers at an annual level and up to 100,000 dinars increase. So it's not this small, it's an increase, but it's as much an increase as the government could single out, what's on real ground. This is what can be singled out because the state has earned so much serious and responsible work. So hopefully we'll hear some concrete suggestion, too, that we'll hear something about the budget. All I've heard so far is mostly a criticism that every opposition party has the right to do, but it's mostly a criticism that has no substance whatsoever. I haven't heard anything about the budget, and I've heard a lot of incorrect data, and it's made me answer, and I'm going to report every time someone's reporting information that doesn't have anything to do with the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8145	Thank you. My colleague Jerkov will give you my word, but I am obliged to give my word first to the proposing representatives. The word is made by Minister Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8146	Thank you, Chairman. Dear MPs, well, I also have to react and I've prepared myself for one thing that should have gone wrong, which is exactly about these journals. So, like my colleague Stefanovic said, the diaries are 1800 dinars. They are provided for all members of the military and police stationed at the border and located in the land's security zone. Assigned to the Department of Defense on special classification, emergency situations, so it's literally made possible for anyone who wants to see how that money is spent transparently. The money's already separated. There's money. Money is spent in accordance with dynamics and always and at all times there is a possibility, of course, if we go towards an emergency situation at the border being lifted, that that money should be returned to the budget and, of course, used for other things. Also, I'm going to look back at the Army's receipts. So five percent in the army will be between 32 and 90 grand when the colonel and the generals have more. I must tell you, we also calculated the average salary, or the average income in the Serbian Army in November. The average net salary was 44,418 dinars, but the average receipt was 66,817 dinars. The receipt of officers, on average, was 92,565 dinars, sub-office of 75,000 dinars, professional soldiers 58,308 dinars, and civilians received an average of 49,725 dinars. What didn't get into this whole showdown is the possibility of members of the Department of Defense opting for such a thing to go on a peace mission. Of course, in natural missions, they are able to bring along the pay they return with and receive while they are on a peacekeeping mission, return with a certain foreign exchange inflow that, of course, they bring to our country and use it to establish perhaps a business of their own or to allow themselves a roof over their heads. One more thing is important to note when it comes to securing the borders of the land's security zone, members of the Ministry of Defence who are hired down there, so they have a ten per cent salary increase for difficult working conditions, and they get an even daily of 1800 dinars times as many days as they are down there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8147	Thank you, Minister Djordjevic. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8148	Thank you very much. Let me ask you a question of the logical framework we're talking about. So, asking whether we are better today and painting goals that we can all agree on with small shades is the logical error of the first order because we fully agree on these goals. So there's absolutely no dilemma that we all want the income to be bigger, that people don't have to work, that they're going back to some branches of industry where we might have had an advantage 30 years ago, so today we came back to do it because we don't have an alternative. That's where we totally agree on that. But ask the question if they're better, it has to be put in the context of the trace of the events that it's been. The real question would have been better if we hadn't done this program we had. Would they have been better off if we'd continued on the path he predicted in 78 days of bankruptcy. Would it have been better if we had continued to increase the deficit and debt in the way that the dynamics started in 2009, 2010 and 2011. Look at the trends, you have them in a fiscal strategy, this was a trend, you see, we turned this around. That was the trend with the deficit, that's what we turned it around. Here, I'm showing you. You've got all that, you'll get all the detailed analysis. Turning that trend is painful, but it's necessary. So ask the question whether we want the people to be better, so we did it to prevent that negative trend and there's no point in looking back at what we've avoided. They're much better off than that. The bankruptcy of the country and the collapse of the dinar and the collapse of the entire economy is much better. The increase in employment, not deepening unemployment over 25%, but descending to 13.8%, that's what's better. By increasing wages in the private sector and creating a basis for under-consumption growth, we expect much more, that's better. We started at a time when the growth rate was -3.7% in the third quarter, when this government had fun for the first four, five months of misery to stop the catastrophic effects of the flood. We started in a situation where the Fund didn't want to, not the Fund as a Fund, but as someone with credibility, he didn't want to discuss the 2011 programme over 2012. It wasn't until we put on a table a rational program, that's when we sat down to talk. So we're talking about what we've achieved. If we're high enough, no one said that. We therefore say that we will grow 3% realistically in the next year and 3.5% in the next year at least, and then catch up with Europe. That's what we want. If you have an alternative, and this is the second part of the logical error, from this point on, say the alternative, say which way can be easier and better to achieve a stable, independent development of this country that will have both its industry and its highly valuable professional services and income growth that will keep us up to date with the countries of the former Yugoslavia, such as Slovenia, for example, and with the countries of the environment, that is what we want. Likewise, to maintain what we have achieved, which is that everyone looks at with a high degree of respect and sometimes envy, to the results achieved over the past two years, it is not easy. If we don't make it to the end. So that's the real question, what if we give up on this and just raise our consumption? What if we gave up the deficit 0.6% of the unsuspecting investment, 1.6% with capital investments and 1.7% of the general government and went back to -4, to -6.6, to minus what was in previous years. The deficits were like this, they've been neck-to-mouth since 2009, 4.4%, 4.6%, 4.8%, 6.8%, and then since 2012, then 5.5% and 6.6% since 2013, and then this rise that we're talking about begins. Now, that's the turnaround. That's what I'm ready to talk about. About someone projecting things that are neither logically nor economically connected, I think we're wasting energy, I don't think it makes any sense to talk. We eliminate your goals all, I will fully sign, we can talk about what's real and what's within what deadlines, not whether we should. It's just a matter of being sustainable and for the benefit of all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8149	Thank you, Minister Vujovic. The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov, the basis of the reporting of the replicas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8150	It's a small problem, Mr Vujovic, that there was a turning point. You're asking if citizens would have been better off if you hadn't implemented these measures? Yeah, they'd be better off if you hadn't cut their salaries and pensions, and instead you'd cut the incredible spending in public enterprises. Well, the Fiscal Council in these budget comments, which we received, tells you that today we don't know what you pay for public enterprises, why you pay, what guarantees, what loans, what subsidies. There is no telling which subsidies you give to private companies, and that, how can I tell you, is not fair, Mr Vujovic. It's not fair for you to take the citizens' salaries and pensions without reducing the insane costs of public enterprises. It is not fair, Mr Vujovic, that you prohibit the employment of young doctors without banning employment in public enterprises. It's not fair, it's not fair, it's not useful and it's not good for citizens. So it's not all about making a turn. The point is, that shift will take place. And you've done it in the worst, most harmful and unfair and most expensive way for citizens. We don't argue about whether the deficit needs to be reduced. Let's argue about how it's going to be done. As you do, only citizens pay, and the fiscal council tells you that in other places, where you have to save, you spend more than ever. That's the problem, Mr. Vujovicu. I apologize for saying this about the soldier logs on the border. It's just, here, let me get some answers to what kind of journals the cops have, and there's those guys who keep this derby, where they're being attacked by those hooligans, so I'll admit they're big enough diaries and the military and the police, and I'll pull what I said.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8151	The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8152	Your intention is obviously good, but I don't think the information is consistent. The first thing we did in 2014 and in the preparation of the 2015 budget was to abolish guarantees for so-called liquidity financing. It was the main channel through which the financing of public enterprises took place. So we stopped it first. All that is happening today with public enterprises is the result of guarantees and things done before that period. If you look at activated guarantees, it's all been issued in previous periods. We can't help but pay for it. One of the MPs asked a question - why do we refuse to pay for it? Because there are so-called. Cross default, so we can refuse and go bankrupt as a country. I don't think that's an option. So we have to pay off the wrong moves from the past, especially there... We can show you the exact documents, you'll see. Everyone has to sign those terms. So, the moment we refused to pay any guarantee we issued for public companies' debts, we would enter the position that all other creditors have the right to claim all claims. The money-pass is being applied, and therefore, we would bring the country into an unexplainable situation. So, paying, we don't issue new guarantees except as an exception for good enough development projects. We don't issue liquidity guarantees. We just have to honor those that were made before. That's very important. You can't turn the ship around in place. We systematically reduce it. So 34.8 billion activated guarantees that were issued in previous periods and that we inherited. Second, very important, since the subsidies, what's left? The ones that were inherited, which we can't reduce, even though we're trying to cut them down. Today it was about subsidies for so-called. Public service, four billion now were more before, we wanted to make it smaller, faster to reduce, we didn't make it. We are not successful because there are commitments to fund the Public Service and that RTS and TV fail to provide enough of their own sources of income. It's a big problem. That's where we can work together. We don't have that different position than Parliament. That we can all see together how to find a solution. Four billion now. Maybe it could be less, but we all have to do it together. Railway four billion, and you see, 11 billion, 11 billion railways that include both OPEX, and operating costs, which are primarily salaries and capital costs. We have continued subsidies in some other areas, and as we said, subsidies that will cover some things with RTB Bor, which is also cancer wounds. Except for these subsidies, everything else is development subsidies, and these in agriculture, and those in terms of credit participation. Are they well-defined? Here, Mr. Nedimovic is here, he can tell you. We're trying to turn it around, but it takes time. It is not so easy to reverse the way these subsidies are given. To cut them down, I think it's going to be very difficult. We're increasing them this year, but nature and the way they define and determine who they're going to and what something we're working on this year and next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8153	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8154	Let me just say about security of sports events, first of all, in Belgrade. For example, the last derby when it was made was the security of the Belgrade police brigade, which is a unit from Belgrade. So these people live, work here and provide for their working hours, so completely normal. And we're trying to cut costs just by hiring units of police territory and territory. We have the possibility, unlike, let's say, from assessment to assessment, for each individual event, it's a security assessment and the Police Directorate decides which units and how to provide, but I see that we've managed to achieve a good trend, to reduce the number of people employed to provide all manifestations. So, the MUP annually provides about 100,000 gatherings. If 100,000 assemblies, depending, are not all large, some are smaller, some are larger, but 100,000 events and the MUP groups provide an annual. Whether he does it with one officer's patrol or he does it with a thousand or two thousand cops, it depends on a security assessment. We want to concentrate much more on getting protection funds for members of the police, and that is where we have improved the situation in previous years. For the first time in almost eight years, we're not borrowing shields or vests or protective equipment from other surrounding countries that we've done in those years. And we borrow, of course, when they're looking for us. Now we don't have to do it anymore, we've got enough. Of course, we continue with the help of the government and with great support, to say, the entire government and prime minister of investment in protective equipment, because we want the police to have good protection, that what people wear to be both a quality uniform and a good protection against all kinds of endangering their safety.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8155	Thank you. The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8156	Thank you. Dear MPs, I want to say a few things that are related to agriculture, since a few words have been said about it, and I don't think it's well interpreted for one simple reason, because we're going to go directly to the question – is there going to be any better in agriculture at all and whether any of us will be able to live... I can tell you that this section relating to the separation of direct subsidies for agriculture will be four times higher in 2017 compared to 2016. In figures, 520 million were allocated for investments, in 2016 there will be 2.2 billion dinars that will be directly intended to subsidise investments in Serbia's space. They will be deployed in both Vojvodina and Serbia's space and Kosovo and Metohija. Compares for the sake of this, we have until the other day paid off 5,440 solutions for agricultural holdings that submitted the requirements based on the investments they had in 2016. If I tell you that we have four times more resources, then you can calculate how many agricultural holdings will be able to count on investments in the next period. We also have some measures to focus on young farmers. First of all, over grenades and that measure will be designed for 2017 by a special regulation, where we will give back 75% of the funds to young agricultural producers, those who want to start the agricultural production or processing they want to design. We will also have two tools that will lead to the promotion of agricultural production, through the start-up of projects, through the Development Fund, where it will directly join the Ministry of Agriculture and the Development Fund, and will be exclusively intended for the development of agriculture and the part related to processing, another specific level. These funds exist in the budget, but will be implemented through a special regulation later and brought down to users who will be able to use them. There's one more thing that we've been doing together with the EBRD these days, we've done the same thing in this existing budget. She can't be seen well for one simple reason. I would also like to point out for the public that we will also have development projects through the beginning of the apps, together with the EBRD that we will implement in 2017. These are just some of the tools we will use in 2017, compared to 2016.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8157	The word has a minister, Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8158	I just wanted to add one sentence. You mentioned other public enterprises. So, a large number of public enterprises are under way in the restructuring program. Many started the programme, prepared the programme, December 2014 and realized it by some dynamics. It's a rather complex process that takes time and encounters a variety of problems in all of this. Serbia's electricity is one of the first public enterprises where it was started, the railways are second, "Serbiagas" is third, there are many in all places. Those programs are developing with difficulties, but they're moving forward. We expect that all these effects and rationalisation of the number of employees and increasing technical and technological efficiency and better collection and more efficient sending will begin to take place this and next year. We've got one of the special structural loans that's dealing with public enterprises right now. We expect two cycles in this and expect a combination of professional assistance, structural loans and financial assistance to enable us to achieve what will be much better than the situation we inherited three or four years ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8159	Thank you very much. The word has a minister named Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8160	You know, here again, we don't know what the representatives of the former regime actually want. When they say that we are now helping some of the public enterprises that are irrational, we throw money at them, that's where the biggest money is spent, and then when a company gets in trouble, the workers start strikein', askin' for wages, and they say, shame on you, give people a paycheck, you won't pay people. What do you want? To shut down these companies, to help them or not to help them? Do you want us to keep their jobs or not keep their jobs? From session to session, this perception is changed. We have one or the other all the time. As we have, we are now listening for the hundredth time to this untruth, which we know is false, but it sounds very good politically, come on, what the hell, let's throw it on the back of governments, diapers and investors, workers who work 14 hours. You know we've been sending a work inspection. You know we've been checking. You know there's not a single man who said something like that by his name, but it doesn't matter, so let's keep going and let's ask another question now. Wait, these investors were brought in at the time of the former regime's government. So they were good then and the workers weren't wearing diapers, but now they're out of their mind and now they're wearing diapers, now that the second power's come. At a time when the former regime brought those investors who were now attacking workers did not wear diapers, but now they started wearing diapers just because they were not in power. Let's talk budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8161	Thank you very much. The word is by MP Dusan Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8162	Thank you. I will talk about the part of the budget relating to transfers to local self-government, in terms of how the funds are spent. We talk a lot about how money can be deployed from one position to another. I think it's good to talk a little bit about how money is spent, in what way. On behalf of the transfer to local self-government, 33 billion dinars are set out in this budget. These are non-purpose transfers, which means local self-government will get 33 billion dinars that will be able to spend whatever they want without any justification. So there's also a huge amount of money that local self-government units get as means that they have to spend on certain things. I'm talking about unintended means. How do local self-government units spend money? In the last few years, the next thing you know, Since spending has been more controlled over the past few years, local self-government units are starting to inflate revenues, arguing that they will earn a huge number of money and then increase consumption on that basis. Since revenues are unreally projected, there is a huge proportion between income and consumption, so that local self-governments go into a huge delay, they enter the debt that is transferred to next year and next year. Who ends up covering all those debts? I'm talking about the Republic budget here. All these debts of local self-government are covered by the republican budget. Can we give 33 billion dinars to local self-governments that project their own public finances in this way? So, without any explanation, how did you come by such great proportions? No responsibility, no explanation. There's a couple of ways local self-government spends their money, and now it's become a famous thing. I don't know if anyone in the government has seriously considered the mechanisms for which local self-governments spend money. I'll give you some information from one DRI report. It has been noted that, for example, in 2014 a huge number of local self-governments have established a huge number of commissions that have done things that the local administration already has to do. I'll give you a few examples from there. For example, in the municipality of Pećinci there was the Economic Council and the Council for Economy. Members of that council received money as compensation for working in it. I didn't notice that there was an economic boom in the Caves. Then, again, there were only eight refugee commissions in the municipality of Pecinica in 2014. How many refugees, I don't know if the Minister of Social Work knows how many refugees were in the municipality of Caves. In Bačka Palanca, the Commission to determine the fulfilment of minimum technical conditions for the start of work of beaches. Cereals - Commission for the control and determination of riverbed and coastal conditions and protection against natural disasters. Well, then, the Dog List Commission at the shelters. Baki Petrovac – Commission for the Destroying of Seals and Stamps. Here's a passage from the commission's report, to read you how the commission worked. The Commission was established and met on 26 August 2015 with the task of destroying one seal and press. The president and three members were appointed to be paid for the task of 14500 dinars. It's just one commission. This job was recorded on August 26th, started at 11.00 and ended at 11.30 p.m. It's just one commission. Overall, according to the 2014 report, there were 6.8 thousand such commissions that spent over 900 million dinars. That's how you spend taxpayers' money. In order not to be critical of anything and not offer any solutions, my proposal is to continue to transfer to local self-government, but on one condition, that local self-government, as well as any part of the public administration, has clearly defined criteria as to how our money is spent. What should be visible when local self-government spends money? A monthly budget has to be announced, how does the budget go? There's got to be a list of assets, a list of all debts that some unit of local self-government has. Public and cultural companies' budgets must also be published, scanned and placed on the website all contracts signed by municipal enterprises and cultural institutions in each municipality. Finally, as we all do so many times, competitions must be made for all professional bodies in the municipality, i.e. Units of local self-government, including competitions at the main sites of public utility companies. Only then can you know whether the spending of money you give to local self-government is justified or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8163	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8164	Thank you very much for these remarks. We had something in mind this year, in line with the Budgetary System Act, and this year, when sending instructions to prepare the budget, we asked all levels of local government, meaning, from municipalities and cities to go from real revenue estimates to real revenue estimates, under one, not to make unreal budgets, to decide on the budget of publication on their website and website of the ministry. So, to see exactly what you're saying, what they're spending money on, and we've also introduced, we don't have a better temporary sanction, suspending non-intentional transfers, unless they stick to these things. I think here, in this room, when it's full of composition, there's a lot of local self-government representatives, it would be good to work together here. It is not in whose interest that these rules are not respected at the level of the locals, and therefore we will have to do it together, you all know the practice that there is no rational spending and there is no strict respect for the limit of borrowing, we must do it together. Thank you very much. It's already been put into these changes, and we're going to do it much more intensively next year than this one. The problem with that punishment is that it's a temporary character. We can stop the transfers only over the year, then in December they get all the funds back, but another way so far is gone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8165	Anna Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8166	Thank you. Let me add, to what Minister Vujovic said, and I think you know that only two years ago has control over what is happening in local self-governments and through the Rino system, thanks to the Ministry of Finance, and also through a decision on the maximum number of employees in local self-government, thanks to which the number of employees in local self-government has been reduced in fact in the last two years. But we have a local self-government type, I apologize now, again, to mention Smederevska Palanka, it's really nothing personal, just because it's one of those more extreme examples, which ended in 2014 with 820 employees. So we're putting it down now, now they have about 650 employees, it's a very difficult and very painful job for both people at the bar and for the budget and for the Republic of Serbia. I think that if we talk about controlling money spending in local self-government to see a significant shift in the last two years, which we will continue to insist on together with the Ministry of Finance and transparency, and by introducing a new law on the obligation to have a public debate on the budget at the bar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8167	Thank you. Ambassador Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8168	We are clearly presented here by the government, as well as by the ministers that this budget will be financed from tax write-offs, i.e. most of the value added tax, excise tax and everything that involves the burden to be paid, i.e. to be borne by the citizens of Serbia. Here a clear minister suggested that there is a likelihood that there is an increase in excise duties, i.e. a change in tax policy, in the coming period. It's a little strange that in the past, we have witnessed that by increasing excise duties, prices have increased, and we have received the official position of the government and the authorities of this country that there is no inflation and there is no fear of inflation, there is a completely stable financial situation and we do not need to worry. Maybe it's a unique case, maybe it's something we could brag about in the next period, let's say in 2017, so we can export that patent to raise prices, raise the cost of life without inflation. But what the minister clearly underlined is that the growth of gross social product is possible, primarily, thanks to what he said, three factors. The first is investment, second is exports and third is rationalization. You may have forgotten, but you shouldn't be losing sight, that there's also a wise monetary policy. We have a stable dinar. We have an extremely stable currency relative to the euro or the dollar, we have absolutely nothing to worry about when it comes to the stability of the economy. Although, truth works, there's no real cover for that stability, but what statistics can do is we've made sure in the past. Let's leave it at that, what the minister and government are stressing, is that foreign investments are and how significant the growth generator of the gross social product, and we heard the information that in this year foreign investments were below two billion. We know from earlier, and logic of things says that for normal functioning, reconciliation of Serbia's needs for both domestic and ino, it takes at least three billion to five billion euros of foreign investment at the level of a year. As Serbia's commitments to repay the loan have now increased, it is going towards that five billion-year-old figure anyway. It is necessary to consider how and how to secure these investments, but first of all, it is necessary to draw out a clear account of how much these primarily foreign investments cost us. We have foreign investments in which this state invests and how significant funds. We have foreign investors who open factories here, while Serbia allocates funds to raise these facilities, the Serbian government makes compensations for each employee of between five and 10,000 euros and exempts them from paying commitments for one not so short period. And every investment costs Serbia more literally than the one I have any intention of doing, or who's the investor. We Serbian radicals want to help and we know that the government traditionally always asks questions – do you have any solutions? We have a solution, we offer one proposal, which is to take advantage of this privilege that we have the largest oil and gas company called Gazprom, and in Serbia, it is called "Gasprom - the oil industry of Serbia", we take advantage of that great advantage. Since earlier there is an initiative to enter Russian capital, it is now a unique opportunity to take advantage of the existence of the Russian Federation's largest company by introducing Russian capital, except for this Western one we have been using here since 2000. Well, here, you see the shift made when the Chinese capital entered. As soon as the Chinese capital entered, both bankers and investors from the West discussed differently. As long as we have only one side, one option we are doomed to accept the conditions proposed by that one side. Secondly, not to turn out to be radical emoticians from before there is a proposal from the American agricultural machinery company called John Gear, because they want to produce medium-class machines and lower classes, i.e. cubics. Talks with IMT were held earlier. The truth works here are some ministers who are witnessing part of these talks, because they are a relapse of past, past governments, so they may be able to confirm these words when these negotiations were concrete, which is that the existing facilities and infrastructures of the engine and tractor factory are exploited. That's when the negotiators on behalf of the Serbian government made it clear that there is a parallel that has the same abbreviations as the industry -- is there me? And there's been a drop. Here's an opportunity, especially, which the finance minister unites both the government and the potential American producer, to renew the talks, because they produce other than agricultural machines and special machines for field work that are not accessible. These are very simple processes of production. We have opportunities for these unemployed engineers, technical, different professions to hire them, and few more of these high school students to have masters who have lost their jobs to hire them about it, but don't let us use that shortcut if there are you in that transaction that we would possibly have done. As far as domestic investment is concerned, it is good to start showing in the budget all investments within the framework of budgetary allocation, but what is very important is that such investments should be handled carefully. Some priorities must be set. Here you have some investments that will be funded in 2017 from budget funds and from loans and other sources. In particular, you have an item relating to the conclusion of the Željev Bridge, which is the breadth of the housewives in connection with the traffic of this part of Europe and Serbia. There's 800,000 out there. You have outsourced 50 million dinars, I'm guessing for project documentation to build a tunnel through Fruska Gora, but I don't know for what reasons you didn't insert a project announcing the province's government, which is this banana highway. Is this the imagination of the province government or your oversight, I would like to hear the answer – did you have such an initiative since they presented it as a government as part of their priorities? Secondly, do not forget capital investment for this part of Serbia, the northern part of Serbia is by water supply. You know very well that it's a critical situation when it comes to supplying proper drinking water in central Banat and northern Banat. There's a critical situation. This can only be solved by providing proper drinking water from the Drinski plum. It's a very important project. It's a significant investment. What keeps the radicals a little bit in fear is that you, in the part of funding, that is, charge the budget, other than these tax write-offs, are also predicting the duties. Debts consist not only of loans but also of the broadcasting of securities of value. You have to make sure that commercial banks during the past period were primarily interested in buying these securities from values broadcast by the state of Serbia. Why? Because they're the most favourable conditions. Because they're the best interest payments paid on the continuum of taking and buying these papers. You have a 5% interest, there's nowhere a commercial bank can place its assets on such interest. In order not to achieve any conflict, we warn you that it is not the one who lost, but the one who got away. So you must always keep that in mind. As far as exports are concerned, the export structure that you think has reduced the difference between imports and exports is that electricity is most exported, and then exports of the Pirot tire factory, exports of Zastava, exports of Bos and exports of all foreign companies. In the structure of the net income from these exports, you did not so improve the situation in relation to imports to exports, i.e. the reverse exports to imports. The financial effect may be worse than it's been in the past. As far as rationalization is concerned, a key question that is being imposed on how to solve the Bor mine problem. All of you, as rain around Kragujevac, are considering solving this with foreign capital, and do not forget that the public is aware that the company's head has been the same name and last name for decades. Have you ever thought about changing that director, or are you connected to him and you and the ones who left him for you? There are solutions, try to change the director, try to change the leadership to see if there's going to be a shift, not talk about how foreign capital is going to improve it, and you're going to be left with management, or management the same. Because the party is loyal to every government, whoever comes to Serbia to run the government. We Serbian radicals will vote against this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8169	The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8170	Dear fellow MPs, honourable ministers, the draft budget bill for next year came to the Second Assembly on Friday. We're either Members in an electronic version or we could take in our space in the printed version on Saturday afternoon this material, and the session is scheduled on Sunday afternoon at 3:00. Do you think we can read all this and if we can read whether we can study all of this in a studio way so we can have a proper discussion with you? You've taken us all 15 days to read it, and you and Mr. Minister, who've had months to prepare it, with a very professional team, you've probably given the IMF three times as much time to analyze all these items, and then you've given it to the Serbian Parliament where we MPs have only one night to write amendments eventually, and we're going to see how much in some item at some ministry by way of more funds given, mostly at the cost of equipment, at costs, at specialized services, so that we can transfer them for some much more necessary purposes. When we listened to you, Mr. Minister, yesterday as you explained this budget, I believe that many of us MPs were wondering - were we living in the same country in 2016 and are we going to live in 2017 in the same country? Because when I plan my budget, my home budget, and I plan it on a monthly and annual basis, I'm not happy when I come up with a plan, when I get a projection of how much I'm going to make in a month or a year, and how much time I'm going to spend. It is just a list of good wishes, so our budget for the Republic of Serbia is just a list of wishes of direct and indirect budget users. Also our projection of how much we can charge from our taxpayers. Backwards, months already, as the biggest result or achievement of the government's work, mentions fiscal consolidation, a reduced budget deficit, even more so in these months and a budget surplus of 30 billion dinars. We've been discussing here for two days, and I think it's our turn to agree and thank all of us as a government, the executive body and we as a Parliament, that this burden of fiscal consolidation has been borne by employees in police, health care, education, public administration, pensioners. They left savings in the budget on over 70 billion dinars, and that's their credit. It's not even the government's merit, because there were no structural reforms, nor is there any merit for us, unless we've put some tax burden on these citizens somewhere. Of course you do, too, gentlemen ministers mostly all say that our wounds are public enterprises. And from government to government, from mandate to mandate, solving the problem is left. We're now saying that we've only reduced the liquidity guarantees of these companies. It's not just a problem there if they're liquid, what if we haven't reorganized them on the number of employees, not the height of the salary, and we all know what the salaries are and how much on that basis can be saved, and we're leaving it for some future time and we say, here's what we're going to do at the end of this year and next year we're going to do it. There is not much mystification and philosophy, 98% of the budget is charged with taxes, additional value, excises, earnings, and there are various taxes and about 14% more. If we think that we can impose on the final consumers, on the economy and on the citizens, if we only burden them with tax burdens to fill the budget, then this budget will be real, then we will be able to say - that we have realistically planned and we have also spent that money realistically. Until we have a budget report on how much has really been realized and how much we've really planned the spending side, until once we've analyzed it here in the assembly, we won't know if we're bringing the best budgets in history. When it comes to the spending side, only briefly, half of our budget, over 500 billion dinars, wastes on interest, pensions, and wastes partly on subsidies. Are we gonna be able to go with...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8171	Time. I thank you for your letters. Yes, thank you very much. Finish your sentence, I didn't shut you down.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8172	I said half of this budget is going to pay, interest and pension. Is there anything left that will be the development budget for next year?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8173	Thank you. Let me see, now that some have wasted their time. Radoslav Milojcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8174	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, we have before us one of the most important laws, if not the most important law of this year, and this is the Budget Act for the next 2017 and the DS will always praise what is bad as a state-owned and responsible party for 27 years with a clear and objective of action, and we will not be apriors for anything, or something good for the state of Serbia. It is acceptable for the deficit planned at 1.7% of GDP, but not completely unacceptable, Mr Vujovic, that 0.9% of the deficit is made up of companies that you plan to give significant financial resources, such as "Er Serbia", "Serbijagas" such as "Serbigas". The problem is also, Mr Vujovicu, which is a big difference between what it says here, between this budget and how Serbian citizens live. From this budget, Serbian citizens cannot fill their tank. With this budget, Serbian citizens cannot fill their wallet and with this budget, Serbian citizens cannot unfortunately fill their refrigerator to feed themselves and their family in 2017. I'm sorry I have really little time, i.e. The DS parliamentary group, but this budget per ministry means the following – for the Ministry of Defence means that unfortunately this year as well as many times since 2012, the budget is among the lowest budgets in Europe. In the defence ministry, this means that military salaries will also be the lowest in the region. In the defence ministry, too, this budget means that 80% of the members of the Republika Srpska Army will have a lower salary than the average salary in the Republic of Serbia. Who planned at the Ministry of Defence of Capital Expenses of the Ministry of Defence, where we only have two projects planned for the next two years, which is the gasification of the TREZ "Cacchak" and the modernisation of school planes. The shame of breaking the budget by any defence minister who represents not only himself, but 40,000 soldiers and members of the Republic of Serbia's Army, if that's true, I don't really want to speak. As for the finance ministry, this budget specifically means, Mr. Minister, that you cut our salaries, that you reduced Serbian citizens' pensions, that you owed Serbian citizens five years in debt to the SNS authorities with your coalition partners 10 billion euros. In the finance ministry, this specifically means that we have less growth than Albania, than Montenegro and BiH. You and the prime minister both say that you have many friends and that Serbia has many friends in Europe and the world. I'm looking forward to it, too. Both me and my family live in this country and we want this country to be the most successful in Europe as you say. Then why didn't you try with your friends to put the moratorium on interest payments for the next 10 years? If you didn't know how, you could have asked, because the government did so in 2001, whose prime minister was Dr. Zoran Djindjic. Unfortunately, in the voting day, the Democratic Party will not be able to support this draft budget because every resident's life comes first, not the letters on paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8175	Thank you very much. Minister Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8176	Thank you. I have to react again because it's true again, and I guess that's because a young colleague is not an economist, so he can't read the budget. I'll try to explain it to him and make it clearer. When it comes to the defence ministry's budget, the first thing you said was that he was the lowest in Europe. (Radoslav Milojičić, from the place: among the lowest. )......................................................................................................... among the lowest in Europe. I have to tell you that he's at his ninth height-- if we compare him to the NATO Pact countries, then he's the ninth of GDP. If we agree, then the state should stand out as much as it can, not as much as it wants and enter into some conscious minus. When it comes to wages, I have to tell you that receiving professional members of the Army is better than in Macedonia, better than in Romania, better than in Bulgaria, better than in Bosnia, and better than in Albania. So much for countries in the environment. As far as the defence ministry's budget is concerned, in 2016 it was without additional funding that we received at 1.40% of GDP. With the additional funds that we got, and we went to the modernization of the Air Force and the anti-aircraft defenses, artillery tools, murderous means and war reserves, we went to 1.6% of GDP. If we're talking about 2017, it's 1.38% at the beginning. With additional funds, expected in 2017, it will be at 1.61%). It's true that you see only two projects here, but you don't see and we didn't want to, so that's the deal with the Ministry of Finance, that we don't open a purely pro-forma at the beginning of the year of empty appraisal for three projects. It's a project of the Air Force and anti-aircraft defense, modernisation and refurbishing of the Land Army and modernization and remonting of the murder weapon. These are the three projects that were supposed to be, and here is the finance minister, but it's agreed that when next year's budget starts, these projects, in line with the state's capabilities, what is the possibility of the state giving funds, so they're being opened. I'm talking about what's gonna happen. The prime minister told you today that we have allocated enough funds this year to start modernising and refurbishing the Air Force. In that direction we will go in the coming years. Over the next four years, the Ministry of Defense has a plan to make our army the best and most modernised in our region. When it comes to the other things that you said here, which is that 80% of the average salary, that there are less than 80% of them living below the average salary in Serbia, I have to tell you that less than 40% has less than 42,000, not counting, again speaking, multinational operations and not counting their engagement in the land security zone. So each of them has been given the opportunity to have a 20-day chance of going to the border or land zone for 20 days, which, if we're talking about the lowest incomes in the military, which is professional members of the army who have 36,000, is the possibility of getting 10% on difficult working conditions. It means they have a base of 40,000 and 20 days in the land zone or at the border they have another 36,000. Unless they had the opportunity to be on duty, we are also talking about other privileges, which are increased housing costs, travel costs, etc. So we have all sorts of things about how and how we can help them and make their direct or indirect income, when it comes to receiving in the army, increase. Of course, there is no need to bypass the important fact, which is that we have also worked indirectly to increase incomes at the Ministry of Defence. You can see on the website of the Ministry of Defence that the Ministry of Defence with certain chains, both hypermarkets in terms of food and tourist agencies, and then those who sell books for education, managed to make a permanent and continuous discount for members of the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army, who, with the identification card, have a permanent discount and plus the possibility of buying the same at 12 wars. Since they have to feed their families, since they have to buy books, we in an indirect way, saving in those food and book chains, indirectly increase their income, however much it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8177	The word has Minister Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8178	This was an interesting observation. I'm only interested in Mr. Milojic commenting on the state he left in the budget. So it's an important thing to talk about. The Smederevska Palanka municipality is not a large municipality, it does not belong to the smallest, but it is not a large municipality. (Radoslav Milojic, from town: How many residents are there? () About 50,000 inhabitants. In any case, what is important is that we simply get an answer as to how it is possible that man left public administration, when the citizens of this municipality are willing to change power and when he no longer performed that function, it is possible that he left 820 employees at the municipality's budget, so 820 employees in this small municipality, and what is much more important, the debts of three billion dinars, of which is almost a billion just for electricity. It's like every day for the last ten years, there's been a million dinars a day. Every day in the last ten years, a million dinars a day. It's so long. Unfortunately, the only positive thing financial experts could say was that so much debt was that they couldn't take new loans, so it stopped further borrowing. It's the only positive thing that could have come from that task, and unfortunately, I had to say it this way because I just don't know what people can expect. 19 municipal companies were founded in the city, which mostly went bankrupt after each other and are all in a blockade at the moment. Huge work and huge investment will have to be done, huge work will have to be done in order for this municipality to return. Three billion dinars of debt in a small municipality. Three billion people. Well, we're talking about the abnormal numbers people left behind. I'm simply interested in that, because someone who gives himself the right to talk about the Ministry of Defence's budget, about the government's budget, who wants to talk seriously and to have a debate on how the state should go on, should show it by example. It should show us how it was run where this person could run, where he could show how domestic, seriously, money was being invested, to see what we could expect from such proposals and what suggestions were in the places where the people who suggest it were in power. This data is just amazing.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8179	Thank you. Replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8180	Mrs. Gojkovic, I expected you to warn Mr. Stefanovic, because a serious debate on the Ministry of Defence, which is extremely important, turned him on a completely irrelevant topic on the day when the budget was adopted. On this occasion, I invite the Minister to a TV duel, so let's clarify who left the bombed and destroyed country in 2000, who left 13 salaries, who left 16 left behind pensions, who took apartments while they bombed us, and I don't mean Minister Djordjevic, but Minister Stefanovic, so let's see who left what.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8181	So borrowing is a theme, you're running. Replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8182	I'll just have a very short one. I think three billion dinars of Serbian citizens' money are always a topic and are a topic because they are an integral part of the budget. Those debts have to be paid. These debts must be compensated for the citizens of Smederevska Palanka to have electricity and water, so that those employees in the municipality receive salaries, in order to build roads, to pave the way for the Atarian roads, in order to meet those functions that the municipality has, each municipality, and not just this one. When you make three billion dinars of debt, it's something that really is an inaccessible figure for most presidents in many terms, not just in one. We've brought enormous work down to 650 employees, to say that these people continue to live and function normally in their families. The number of employees must be reduced by twice what we were left with, and you know how to hire yourself in public enterprises, in utility companies, in local self-government. Obviously, it's exactly the way we're treated, and we're trying to show that it's done the opposite. But three billion dinars are important and three million dinars are important, especially when we're talking about a figure that looks like you've owed a million dinars a day for ten years. That's really, really amazing. (Radoslav Milojičić, from place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8183	He didn't mention you now. The word is Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8184	If you please, Serbia was bombed by a NATO pact and Serbia is not to blame for being bombed. We did not cause wars, nor did we lead them, nor did we look for them, and because we existed in Kosovo and Metohija, it is certainly not our fault, and I am sorry that some MPs feel that this is our fault. But let's talk about more specific things. For example, in Smederjevska Palanca, the municipal-tourism organisation owes 24 million 668 thousand dinars, the Public Enterprise "Palanka Vuk Karadzic" – 43 million 305 000 dinars, the Living room "Puž" – six million 793 thousand dinars, the National Museum "Smederjevska Palanca" – 16 million 800 000 dinars, the Centre for Social Work, 8 million 45 000 dinars, the JPY "Pijace" – 37 million 324 thousand dinars, the Cultural Centre – 27 million 98 thousand dinars, libraries – 12 million 130 thousand dinars, etc. Sports and Amateurism Development Center, how did you manage to make debts? Eight million 293,000 dinars. Then, Archive – 15 million, "Palanka Development" – seven million 826 thousand dinars and, of course, the already legendary Jasenica football club 1911 – eight million 728 thousand dinars, Preschool institution "Chika Jova Dragon" – 93 million 174 thousand dinars. That's how we'd run the country, that's how we'd budget. I don't think there's really any need to explain anything. (Radoslav Milojičić, from place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8185	On what grounds? Only debts from Smederevska Palanka have now been read. So no one mentioned you for anything. (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: No, people, please. Give me two minutes. The two of them can, and I can't. No, not in this discussion of Alexander Woolin's not. I listened, believe me. I gave it to you when Nebojsa Stefanovic mentioned your character and work, but not exactly how he fell. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric. Here you go. (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: Nothing is true. He reads well, but he reads the lie. He reads the debts of the Smederjev Palanka, not yours. Just sign in, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8186	Thank you. Dear ministers, respected chairman, colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, we believe the finance minister that under the IMF's review the figures are weighted in professional frameworks as well as indicators of blood counts, but there are many very serious diseases that are not seen from the blood count. The discussion on the budget is not just about economics and finance. The discussion on the budget is a policy debate, particularly on governance policy and spending money in the best public interest. When it comes to blood count indicators, for example, I'm going to look back at capital expenditure and try that number to make some sense. It's a famous CAPEX, to translate it into Prime Minister's terminology. It was 2.23 times higher compared to the 2016 budget, but the realisation of capital expenditure in 2016 was at the end of October only half of the total annual planned amount. So the 2017 budget actually envisions an increase of 4.6 times compared to the implementation in January-October 2016. So, it's unreal, given that in 2016, half of the total has been realised so far, twice as planned. This lack of investment also affects the business of municipal enterprises, I will set a concrete example. According to the audit by the State Auditing Institution, the difference between, beware now, the invoiced and produced water at the annual level in the JKP "Vodovod" in Ruma is 40%, 2.3 million cubic metres of water. So much is lost from production to collection from end-users. It's impossible for such losses to be Hawaiian. The havaries are recovered relatively quickly, and they certainly are not the cause of the disappearance of almost half of the production. This is about the introduction of order, about the rule of law and how true the reforms are, not just proclaimed. Now, here's what budget analysis actually looks like. The key member of the budget is Article 8. It gives an analysis of the spending of 2,000 billion dinars, which citizens should remember, two thousand billion dinars. It's packed into an excel file that has seven thousand rows. One MP per member can only submit one amendment and now if you want to change the purpose of money in, say, 56 items, if various subsidies of 84 billion appear in the budget, you should write an amendment of, say, 40 pages. Before that, of course, you have to go through all seven thousand rows to know that the funds you're making with the amendment are being placed in places that the funds don't get on any other basis, which they need, and for that you have two days. Then they also shorten your time by order of the board on Sunday afternoons on which the ruling majority does not arrive at nine o'clock in the morning, say, at the session of the Diaspora Committee, and similar smittens. Among the most controversial items of the budget is it, one of the 56 items of various subsidies, of a total of 84.4 billion amounts, divided by 20 Ministry of Economy, the head of 20 Ministry of Economy, so, under the direct authority of the Minister of Economy, with a budget of 33.1 billion and this programme 1510 – attracting investments with a budget of 13.6 billion dinars. In order to compare the size of this budget, I'll remind you that in addition to these 13.6 billion dinars, the subsidies are projected and 11.2 billion fines and penals, just to see what kind of money that is. And now, the 13.6 billion dinars are divided into various programmes, so it says – professional and administrative support in the area of economic and regional development – 800 million dinars, for specialized services of the Serbian Development Agency, to help professionally and administratively subsidised firms invest in Serbia. These large companies will be given to consulting 800 million dinars of money from Serbian taxpayers. Well then, direct investment incentives under already assumed liabilities of 1.3 billion. The budget's goal is to assess the success of this investment in citizens' money to create 4,950 jobs, which is not even 1% unemployed. Otherwise, out of 84.3 billion subsidies, only 15.2 billion are intended for private and all other public enterprises, which says how much the subsidy will truly help raise employment. Then you have investments of special importance, and now the names: "Fiat", "Lir", "Endava", "Leoni" etc. 11 billion dinars. Now, if what the Prime Minister said yesterday is true, that he doesn't give money and that "Endava" won't get it, I ask – why is "Endava" the name in the law then? Why is it necessary to state this company's name in the law? Who do you need to be in charge of, as a businessman, and how do you get the name of the company in law, besides the strong and independently developed domestic competitors from the IT sector who don't have that honor? The next item says -- Serbia's founding role is only five million dinars. Why does Serbia invest so little, if these are such good jobs? Why don't the state take more part in this business and make that expected big profit? Or are these investments like Al Ravafed, which showed 217m dinars of losses per final account, and should, as the prime minister announced, be showcase. Now there's another item interesting. Subsidies to private companies for the production of audio-visual content – 400 million dinars. Why does the state stimulate the very production industry of audio-visual content and what is the economic benefit of citizens? That's what I'm very interested in. Why do we think it's useful for citizens to build Hollywood here in the Balkans? That's the question. Now I need to discuss the budget competently, and we do not have a precise explanation in front of the government of the economic viability of this type of investment by taxpayers. What return, at what rate, in what time do we get on this money? You know how, to start a private growth strategy on subsidies, it's like when you produce a product that's no good, so no one's going to buy it, so then you have to attract a buyer with great benefits, so eventually you pay the buyer to buy your product. So we pay investors to invest in us because we don't have a quality state and an orderly society, but we have a cloudy water in which to hunt, and investors don't come without these extra benefits. The strategy for establishing economic growth on subsidies is, in fact, a strategy based on giving our citizens the work to deprive and defecate citizens and the production of diaspora. I think it was a message that the lady in front of the Gornje factory wanted to tell the prime minister, but he had neither patience nor nerve to listen to it precisely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8187	The word has a minister, Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8188	I will try best to separate those parts of your comments that sound rather constructive to me and as good questions for future thinking from those parts where we don't have an answer or don't agree. So first let's start with this mystery about so-called. Capex. It's not the termology of any individual, it's the termology used by OPEX and CAPEX in literature, so we took it from here. I'm sorry, we can use terms of capital expenditure and operational expenditure. So, don't blame anyone individually, it's just, you'd say, a professional language that's used, that's turned into a habit. So that's an increase from 42 billion in budget plans for this year to 94 billion. Of these, 43.5 billion relate to project loans that first appear in the budget this year. So if you clear that up then we come up with your question whether it's a real increase from 42 to 51, because that's an increase that's comparable, 43.5 billion refers to the introduction of project loans that weren't shown in the budget last year in this way. So if you look at these tables, we talked about it on several occasions, I thought your colleagues sent it to the Committee and elsewhere. So the project loans are about 1% of the social, or GDP difference last year. See the difference between the general government deficit in 2016 and the republic deficit. One was on, rounding up, at 120 billion, the other was 160. That 40 billion that was 7% were just about these project loans, because now the difference is from 0.6 to 1.6 of those same 40 and something billion, so that part. The second question is whether we're going to make it happen, the second question is whether we plan it well, etc., that's all the questions to talk about, but that just explains, there's no difference 2.5 times but there's a difference of about nine billion more. What's the difference? Because this year we started a whole series of investment projects that are planning an increased withdrawal, i.e. the use of funds in the following year. So it's a simple explanation of how real it is. It is a question of the ability of all of our combinations of ministries that play a leading role in these sectors and houses dealing with projecting and carrying out work. So we don't have such a good result in the past, but we actually have a big problem telling someone in advance that there's no money. What's very important is that we still fit on the side of the expenditure. So what's important is that everyone understands, that's that we've come from a restrictive measure of GDP, so we've dimensioned the expenditures, so we've dimensioned that so-called. Capex. So no one here is cut off, if we do less of a hat, no one gets hurt because we didn't increase the hat by cost. We've defined all other costs by limits, and we've added this. Therefore, no one should have direct damage to that. If we do more and we finish the projects so much better, if we do less, it will be balanced, because most of it is financed from so-called. The sources of 11, which are foreign sources of funding, will be in itself, with the exception of our participation balanced. As for your other issues regarding the use of subsidies, many countries in the world are serious about this. We have been rationalized within the Ministry of Economy, subsidies for regional development have been combined with the so-called subsidies to create new jobs, and there has been much done to improve the methodology of work. The whole new institution now specializes in this. It employs a whole series of ministers to avoid the bias of one or two ministers, meaning four, five ministers are involved. We have for each, the grant procedure we have to register, that's this list you see in the budget, that's those companies that will apply, and you heard the prime minister thinks that some of them probably don't have a chance to win. But this is a list of projects that the Ministry of Economy has given at the moment as a work version of projects, this is clean for information, not defined sums, but defined to be 11 billion within which companies will apply for jobs. Secondly, I think the Department of Economy can give you more accurate information at one of the working sessions. This is how effective these investments are in investing in new jobs. So, first we, like all countries that are in similar conditions, we have to act like all other countries in the region, so we compete for similar projects and we have to offer the same type and approximately level of stimulation, like. Macedonia, Bosnia, Montenegro and everyone else. It's very difficult to go away from all these standards, we have adapted here to what someone defines as a standard in the region, as the market defines your price level, and everything else here and there. Is that good, if there's a way better, it's certainly a question we can ask and try to find a good answer. So far, we haven't found a better answer than this. We tried to objectify him, include as many ministers as possible and as much analysis as possible. You have one more thing here, 1.3 billion, these are obligations under that same programme from the previous periods. So they're being negotiated in one period, and then because of the dynamics of realization over the years, we have these extensions from previous periods and 1.3 billion refers to it. What is good in this whole story, which analyses for those projects that have been achieved show that these couples are coming back very quickly. So, if you invest in jobs, the ranges are big, but the money's coming back pretty fast. So far, we're not complaining. You know, the biggest problem for us is that these investors are failing because of a variety of restrictions to realize it in the way it's planned, so they're late, so they're asking us to reprogram these funds, so it's causing problems, so they're late in realisation, often because of our problems, about getting them all the necessary papers, permits, and so on. Often and because they encounter other problems to find quality labour, to find all other elements that are important to the process of production. Therefore, the area requires that we ask a question, that we seek a solution. Minister Knezevic can tell you more about it. What I'm telling you is that this figure in the budget here, on a level, you said everything together, 13, 14 billion, 800 million for preparation. Look, it's five, six million, six and a half million euros. It's not that big a deal if those rules were done properly. That's relative, because there you have to buy international consultants and their time to give you an assessment, say, of the metal sector and the way you invest in that sector. In order to give us an analysis of the problematic sectors, such as coal and so on, you have to pay these analyses at world prices to know where you are and what to do, instead of moving your throats into strawberries, to negotiate projects, or loans for 200, 300 or 500 million that after sitting and on interest only for a year only pay five times more than these costs of designing and planning in advance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8189	Thank you, Minister Vujovic. The word is made by Minister Goran Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8190	Minister Vujovic answered all the questions, and I would just like to add a few things. Of course, one of the most important indicators of growth in the entire economy is investment and we are fighting for these investments. In this year as you've seen, we'll have 1.8 billion euros. We expect it to go over two billion in the coming years, and we would like it to be in the next two years and over three billion. This year we have signed 21 contracts. The value of investments under these contracts is 220m euros and will be employed by 15,600 people, with the return of those funds that Serbia invests in incentivising those investments on average about 3.2 years. Of course, that is equal to the Investment Law, all investors are even and I answer to what Mr Mircic just asked, so Chinese, Russian, Serbian investors are exactly the same before that law. This year we had two big investors from Temerin and FOS Surdulica, so domestic investors. We are working to change the Encouragement Regulation. We'll have them in about ten days, so, before New Year's Eve, where we expect to make a public ad for investment and employment under 100 people soon, especially in the middle of the smaller and undeveloped. As far as "Endava" is concerned, the question was why "Endava" is on this list. So the decision to grant state incentives is made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia on a proposal from the Council for Economic Development. As Minister Vujovic said, three ministers, the director of RASA and the president of the Chamber of Commerce, are sitting in the Council for Economic Development. In a well-known and very transparent procedure, they make those decisions. As we prepare for the budget and for the 2017 budget, we have listed all those companies that have passed the Council for Economic Development procedure. So we expect the government to consider these decisions at the next session and to make investment decisions for certain investors. So "Endava" didn't even get a dollar out of the budget because no contract with her has been signed and the government has not made a final decision yet.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8191	Thank you. National MP Vladimir Djuric, the basis of the reporting of replicas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8192	I thank the ministers for their answers. With regard to hats, if we compare 50 billion to 40 from the previous budget, the implementation with October was completed from 2016. So, then we compare the 50s and the 20s, again I think the rate of two and a half growth is unrealistically planned. I agree that if money does not go to capital investment, it will contribute cash, so cash flows are positive, but it will do damage to quality and availability, for example public services to citizens, and let's say that the famous loss from the public utility "Vodovod" in Ruma of 40% of production that is not invoiced will not be resolved. So we won't spend the money, but there'll be a problem. As for subsidies, I believe there is a procedure, but I think that three ministers, the president of the Chamber of Commerce and the director of the Serbian Development Agency, are too narrow a circle of five people who make a decision on spending money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8193	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8194	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Vucic was right when he said that this draft budget law could not be discussed, but not because he was so good, but because we had only 48 hours to try and at least review it, because seriously to read it certainly wasn't possible this whole material that was related to this law and all the accompanying laws. Today, the Prime Minister answered the remarks, saying that no government had ever submitted the draft budget to the MPs within the time limit provided for by the Rules of Procedure. But since he, if he and his government were known for what they were doing for the first time in history, it wouldn't be bad if for the first time in the history of this draft budget law had been sent to the MPs in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, then we could have a nice debate in every division, by any appraisal. This is how we have to talk in general, in principle, but as far as we're concerned by the SRS, at least with the intention to present to all citizens, as far as possible in this short time, some general things about the draft budget law. I tell all the citizens, I don't use the term that you like to use when you say -- to an ordinary man, because I think we're all people, then there's less or more educated, there's some who are in office, there's a lot more on the employment desk, there's a large number of those who live with pensions less than 15,000 dinars, there's about that much, and that's about half a million of those who live from the minimum, who, mildly, are increased by 7.5% and all of them, and not just to them, this draft budget law applies. Yesterday, whether it was yesterday, Minister Vujovic, when he represented the law, said that the real average growth in the public sector was not well recorded, 0.9% and 3.8% in the private sector. Now, what we should talk about and see what's real here. In the public sector, this real average profit is essentially something far from what you've said and written, because in the public sector, the largest number of employees who have minimum wage and probably because of this increase in minimumers, there has been this increase in the public sector. That's what they're called. It's the deputies and they're the ones waiting for your notices in this IMF broom you're threatening. When it comes to the private sector, we understand that neither you, nor Alexander Vukic, can know everything that's going on in the state, in the system, in society, every detail, but when Vukic represented the exposé, it's been more than half a year. At that time, we warned him that there were a number of companies where employees received minimum earnings and were paid taxes and contributions. In addition, they sign some kind of statement every month, saying they received another 20,000 dinars on their hands. Of those 20,000 dinars, they only get ten, and those other ten they sign they've received, they don't know where they are. And I've checked in a few places to see if the Government of the Republic of Serbia has been doing anything or not since I warned this serious problem. It's still working the same way, it's still a problem with the pension fund's payments on that total amount, and the key question of how that someone pulls that cash out and how and where there's 10,000 dinars left, and 10,000 dinars is giving to the employee. He said today that such and similar things, he did not specifically say, that the problem is to examine this in detail because of a small number of inspectors, and he cited an example of Hungary and Orban, who has no idea how many thousands of inspectors more than Serbia has. Of course, Orban does not listen to the IMF, but works in the interests of his country and his citizens. We strongly recommend that you hire a sufficient number of inspectors, regardless of these restrictions of the IMF. You can hire them for a certain time, just so that all those highly educated young people who have been registered at the Bureau for a few years are waiting for a job, in the meantime working on a market or a bar, that they can work and that they can finish the internship, and that this job is really done in order to actually create new jobs for them too. Zorana Mihajlovic said the other day that she needs more than 1,000 people who will be hired to legalise buildings without a building permit. Of course, no one has anything against it, firstly, because these people will be hired, secondly, because they are likely to finally solve this legalisation problem and make the right solutions, given that the result that has been recorded so far is more than modest. But I recommend that Mrs. Mihajlovic and you hire besides these 1,000 people and a number of people from the urban profession, to make urban plans, detailed urban plans for all local self-government, and that no one can build again without a building permit. As long as you don't have detailed urban plans done, people will be forced to break the law this way. The question we also asked when Vukic was talking about the exposé was exposure, and you didn't do anything, you didn't react. We asked if you knew, and now you have to know, what happens to contributions and taxes on employees' earnings in the flag, based on that harmful contract that you're not responsible for, but you're responsible for why you didn't do anything about it, because you know what happens to harmful contracts. There is a Law on Bond Relations, there are international rules of international public law. No money on behalf of the contribution and income tax from the flag, from any worker, is coming into Serbia's budget. Why? Because according to that contract in the Republic budget, every 1 or 5, when they already receive salaries, that amount of money is paid to the flag, and they only account for the same money as the contribution and return to the budget. Our same money spins every month, and we don't have a single penny of it. The question, what's also about this, is, in fact, from what I've said so far, and what I'm trying to say is, it's about the poor or at least insufficient work of institutions that have an obligation to fill the budget and, worse still, there's a discrepancy and bad coordination between these institutions, and sometimes even between the ministries within that single government of yours. These days, citizens of Serbia are simply terrified to see a postman nearby, because they receive daily or some abnormal bills for some kind of water breakdown or for some disposal that is in accordance with the Water Act, but are unsuitable. What you don't want to see is the problem of citizens and that coordination again. Mr. Nedimovic should know that. The citizens of the village of Brzan near Batocin say they wrote to the ministry and have received the answer that it is impossible to solve their problem because of the inability in the ministry run by Zorana Mihajlovic, I think it is her responsibility now. It is that you are asking citizens who live not only in this village of Brzen, but throughout the Great Morava, to pay taxes on property and to pay taxes on disposal or contribution, as it is called, for the land that Morava stole from them. So that land they can't use. That's a lot of land. How is it possible that two ministries can't solve this problem? It's very simple to solve, and you really have to solve this problem. Of course, the problem we were talking about, which is that it's hard to talk at all about any draft budget if we don't have a final bill for the previous year. Mr Vujovic said yesterday that the intersection was done for this year and that the intersection shows surplus, but of course, it is informal, it is something that you were doing for internal use, but it is not a document delivered to the MPs. Of course, you couldn't even work for 2016, but for 2015 you were obliged to do that report on the final account. Aleksandar Vukic boasted at one of the daily conferences that GDP will be 4% this year. Today he says it's 3%. But the point is something else. They say economists, good experts, yes and with that 4% GDP to get to the level since 1970, that it would take us 48 years. Just so the citizens know that this story of GDP is all three, with the four of us, etc., that they know that it's not as great as it wants to be introduced to us. This GDP is as big as it is thanks to "The Irons", otherwise it would be between 2% and 2.5%, Mr Vujovic. Just to be serious about the budget, here I am finishing up, it is necessary for the Government, that the Ministry of Finance answer a few questions. Did the government plan, and if so, what is the planned GDP per year over the next five years? You've been in power for five years now. You should have some perception of the future. What investment projects will lead to this growth? What are the sources of funding for viable planned growth? Mr. Milicevic, just these three more questions. What will be the average profit per year over the next five years? What will be the average pension in the next five years? Are you still going to kidnap the pensioners and return as you think? And what will be the public debt per year during this planned period? Thank you. We'll stick to the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8195	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević. He's not there. Do you want to speak, Mr. Jovanovic? I'm sorry, I understand you've given up.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8196	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, is ahead of us the budget, as the most important law, which this Parliament is passing and he is good and I will support him with all my support, as well as my parliamentary group. I'd like to ask a few questions to the honourable ministers, according to the time I have at my disposal. First it refers to local self-government. Yesterday and today, we have heard that local self-government is constantly referred to here as the generator of a certain deficit. On the one hand, Minister Stefanovic is right when he says – no wonder who ran all the local self-government, but on the other hand, I am someone who has run local self-government in Topoli for 10 years and I did not have a single dinar of deficits, nor does that municipality owe anyone, so I ask the distinguished Minister Brnabic – why does the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government publish clearly on the site of the ministry a list of all municipalities, to see how many debts and how many municipalities have violated the government's orders about the maximum number of employees? We have no clear record of what is the number of municipalities and what is the number of people and when we will already have it once and for the issue to no longer be pursued in parliament. One of my predecessors spoke about the transfer funds that local self-governments receive from the republican budget, but I have repeatedly raised the question in this parliament in which and by which criteria these transfer funds are determined. We have in the last six or seven years identical data and individual municipalities that were formerly loved and today receive more transfer funds than other municipalities that at that time were opposition municipalities compared to, above all, Mladjan Dinkic and G17 plus. I mentioned here a hundred times the example of Loznica and Raca, and I also mentioned the example, not to mention my municipality, but first of all the Kosjerić municipality, which is completely unjustly neglected, gets four or five times less transfer funds than it should have. Unfortunately, this took place until today, so he would ask the Minister and Mr. Knezevic and the Finance Ministry to do it clearly and transparently once, in which way and by which criteria the individual municipalities receive, the same or approximate size of the population, greater or smaller funds. The second question I would ask the Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Nedimovic, but first I would like to commend that, after years of stagnation and the country's decline in investment in agriculture, and we all swear that agriculture is our development opportunity, it moves forward. What I would ask as an explanation to me and the citizens of Serbia is – what happens to anti-urban protection? We are all witnesses, unfortunately, in the past few years that we are constantly in harm's way, and that is what the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are suffering. We passed a good law in parliament during the previous year, but we have testified that this law is not applicable and, unfortunately, although, when the 2016 budget was debated, I asked the ministry whether the funds were provided for the purchase of anti-building missiles. I was told yes, but in practice it turned out to be a no. That's why I'm asking you not only to tell me what's going on with the rocket money, but also the money to make up for the shooters who are supposed to be working on those missiles and how much will the government be able to handle it in 2017? My third question is extremely important, Minister Vulin spoke very clearly, in the previous part of the debate about social givings, but I have one specific question about former workers, and they believe that there are somewhere around 100,000 in Serbia who have worked in companies that have been victims of all these robbery privatisations, and these transitions, and these workers have executive court rulings, but the companies have either gone bankrupt, or have failed, some still exist as legal entities, but they are simply completely corrupt and there is nothing of them. We have, as far as I'm aware, the first rulings in Strasbourg, that these workers from the Republic of Serbia's budget and those who have executive judgments, for the backlogs, the different kinds of compensations, that it's worth it to them and whether they're going to find funds in the budget to help these people, I have to say, because these people are the real losers of this privatisation, and these transitions, and these are all people who are of a serious age and they absolutely need help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8197	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8198	Let me just have a few brief comments. First, to thank you for your discussions and for your suggestions. Secondly, to say that, for me, it is very interesting that the proposal to raise the number of inspectors coincides with the IMF and World Bank proposal, so it is very interesting that the Radical Party proposes the same thing as the IMF and the World Bank, and we agree. So it's a good confirmation that impartial thinking from different angles can come up with the same solution. The problem is that for now we are still in the regime of freezing employment in the public sector from December 2013 and only exceptionally, based on the Commission's solution, we can employ additional people. For now, we can only look for places within the ministries, so specifically my ministry is responsible for budget inspection and can only increase the number of people at the expense of the rest of the ministries. We don't have any other space. We asked for an extension of this regime, didn't we, Anna? By the end of this year, we will not be able to move beyond the same regime until next year to a more modern way of determining the maximum number of employees, which will take into account all these elements. So the number of people that are needed and everything else and then we'll probably have the opportunity to reflect it, but in the structure of the employees. So far, we're here where we are. As for this example, which is very interesting. We know that there are a large number of people in Serbia who do not pay taxes and contribute to the total personal incomes they carry home. So they just don't pay. In the data we have over 750,000 people are reported to receive a minimumer. Our analysis shows that maybe a third of these people are really only receiving a minimum, and two thirds, in fact, are receiving a minimumer as part of these receipts, thus achieving their rights in social security and health, first of all, but they are achieving reduced pension rights. They agree to be suspended in pensions and receive the rest in cash, in a way. I didn't quite understand the example until the end, how it appears extra, but otherwise the model is very simple. Their employers, especially in small businesses, part of the money, in profit form, are pulling out of the company and paying. Taxes are there to draw cash much smaller than taxes and contributions to wages. So it's a problem that we're all aware of and that we're going to try to solve. The solution isn't simple. As far as the data is concerned, you will soon get a fiscal strategy in which we have defined what we expect on the medium term. So, in 2017, 2018 and 2019, we have long-term projections in some things. I think it's time we had a little bit of a vision of Serbia's development for ten years, but it would require further efforts. For the sake of information alone, we expect real growth in 2017 of 3% and a growth in personal consumption of 1.4%, a growth in state spending of 1.6%, a growth in investment of 5.7%, a growth in exports of goods and services 7.7% and imports of 5.3% etc. Very similar rates per year in the coming periods. In 2018, we expect GDP to be 4.680, at growth rate, real growth rate 3.5%, we expect personal consumption to increase 2.2% and 2.9% in 2019. We adequately expect that GDP will increase to nearly 5,000 billion dinars in 2019. So these are our medium-term projections -- the stabilisation of growth at 3.5% real, the stabilisation of inflation at one low stable level, you know that we adjusted the inflation corridor price to a little bit to be three plus-minus one and a half percent. We expect that the GDP deflator that is the inflation measure in GDP will move depending on the differences in the aggregates measured by GDP compared to consumption. So, in other words, investment goods appear here, state consumption appears, exports appear, and imports affecting retail prices to a lesser extent. That's the point. So our per cap's income is about 5,000 euros. It's incomparably more than the income of 1970. So, as people remember that 70th year, as it is in their heads, another thing has been recorded. From the point of view of statistics our income per gate is much better, in this planned 2017 than in the 70th year. We can also show you the data for so-called. Corrected to purchasing power, but we are in all of this significantly above. What we're in is the level of industrial activity compared to that period, but since everything's changed we can't expect industry to return what we had. We need to position ourselves, restore our position in terms of industrial production, not necessarily its participation in GDP, and not necessarily in the structure that was then. Everything in the world has changed, so it doesn't change either. Today's most developed countries have, which are industrial forces, the participation of the industry in GDP of 20 per cent. We can't expect to be significantly different from them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8199	I thank Minister Vujovic. The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8200	Thank you. For a short time, it is about anti-urban protection, which was asked by counterpart Jovanovic. A very important thing, especially where the fruit and viticulture sector is developed, so we don't have much damage, such as. This year he was in the space of the Widow's Plato and there completely around Smederev, where we had huge damages and where great financial expenditures were incurred by the local self-government that she had, to compensate for the damage that arises. It is enough for us to know the public at 14,000 anti-urban missiles at year level, and we have provided 415.000 dinars in the division of the Republic hydrometeorological institution, which, according to its primary purpose, is in charge of these affairs. What the Ministry of Finance sent to local self-government, and alone when I was mayor, I was in the same trouble, is that local self-governments who have an interest in improving this activity can freely engage in anti-building missile procurement, and the entire structure of anti-urban shooters can also be improved in this way. What is necessary for us to develop in the coming years is the thing about, in addition to this physical protection of our orchards, vineyards and everything else, is also the story of developing financial tools that can stand at the disposal of local self-governments and farmers, as they can in a more adequate way to protect themselves. Not only do we have these general insurances that exist today, but also to use the experience of Hungary, we have been intensively speaking to them during joint meetings of the government in Nis, to take over their experiences of how to protect ourselves in these areas in an adequate way and not only to be addicted to anti-citizen missiles, but to be one of our means of a successful fight. Once again, the funds have been provided, the Ministry of Agriculture has been actively involved, in previous months, in order to bring this matter, which has been distributed, several local self-government, and the Ministry of Local Self-Government, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Interior through the emergency situation and our ministry, in order to unite and welcome as high-quality months as possible when the city's intensive presence is in 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8201	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8202	Thank you. I think you all know here and as colleagues have said, we have a lot of people from local self-government, how serious and complex problems local self-government are, and the prime minister said today and yesterday that this is one of the most difficult problems we face in government, that's where we come from, and we're trying to solve something that hasn't been solved for years and years. We literally patch up the holes and watch how to stop the water flowing while we're at the disruptor. What's very important to us, to tell you just systematically what we're working on, are amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government. The draft law has been completed and the public debate has begun. I hope, depending on the availability of the Assembly, that I will be able to defend him before you, to explain him, by the end of the year. So we are going to change and supplement the Law on Local Self-Government, which, unfortunately, does not solve all the problems because we will have to wait for constitutional changes to solve some serious problems, such as – what is the status of the city municipalities, what is the status of the district etc., but will solve some important problems which I hope, and our intention is to introduce some greater efficiency in the work of local self-government. The second serious law that we have just finished is the law on wages at the bar, units of local self-government and AP Vojvodina, which I hope will also succeed in defending, explaining, before you, by the end of this year, if not, then certainly on the first chance of 2017. These are the two laws that we have completed in these four months and that we need to adopt and that will introduce a little more transparency in work and hopefully, in terms of the law on wages at the bar, that's the part where we enter the pay classes, although it is followed by some other system laws, but that's what we're trying to establish the principle of equal pay for equal work. Then we have a decentralisation strategy. We will introduce a different way of working there, as this is a serious document for all of Serbia. Before we enter into work on the strategy, we will only do the concept of decentralisation that we will then present to the public, have a broad public debate to agree on the concept of decentralisation, and then go into the strategy. In parallel with the systemic changes, we at this point have to patch up holes that are primarily further rationalization, further reducing the number of employees in local self-government units, as you said. You see, when it started to streamline, the reduction in the number of employees at the bar, it went gradually so that they wouldn't give instructions somewhere to fire more than half the current employees at the bar, which would be a social disaster. So we have some local self-governments that have been particularly difficult in terms of the number of employees. There was certainly a local government of Prokuplje, which ended in 2014 with 856 employees, with 45,000 inhabitants, and it is realistic that they have about 400. So, we went to a decision on the maximum number of employees that by 2020 will bring all local self-government into this rationalisation plan. So it's hard enough at this point to say who's above, who's below, because, but with the Ministry of Finance in March 2017, when we're making a new decision on the maximum number of employees for 2017, we see, in fact, that we're dividing local self-government into six groups, of -3, which most have to radically rationalise, up to +3, which have already been rationalized so as not to suffer the level of services for citizens. There you will have a very transparent table of these local self-government in those six groups. That's the rationalization one, I'd say, that's the crisis plan. The second crisis plan is certainly, these local self-governments that are in terrible financial difficulties with which we really have to exert ourselves and we have made within the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, a team that, together with the units of local self-government, is currently working on a crisis plan of economic recovery, because you don't know what to do. You don't even know if you're going left or if you're going right. If you have a local self-government that has 50,000 inhabitants, a debt of three billion dinars, three and a half budgets and local self-government, you really don't know where to go. You have inherited problems, just the ones that most endanger people where they don't have basic living conditions. They don't have any water. They have water systems where they have 57% of their losses. Batocina, about 60% of the losses, 32% of the people, and that's the attention of the previous debate when I was in parliament, 32% of the people are not connected to the water system at all, they have wells, they don't have quality water. So we have to sit really seriously and at this point this team is working with three local self-governments, it's the Smederjevska Palanka, Prokuplje and Kragujevac, on this crisis plan of economic recovery, to even set some standards on how to move on. So, let's do what Minister Vujovic did with the country's economic plan. And finally, just to sort of explain to you what kind of situation we're in and what we're doing. These famous parent books that have to be transferred into electronic form so that we can enable citizens to fully apply the General Administrative Procedure Act, which is the basic quality of life law for citizens, for electronic administration, to receive all their documents immediately at that moment in the same place, or we hope from home. Local self-government had a seven-year deadline to transfer the parent books into electronic form. Each state administration ministry and local self-government further extended and further extended and extended until we said it would no longer be extended. These are the ridiculous problems of local self-government that you can't believe the ministry has to deal with at all. At this point, 23 local self-government, and December 6th is, there are below 50% in terms of transfer of parent books into electronic form. There is a whole sector of the ministry that is working on this to enable citizens and businesses from 1 June of next year to have a better and more efficient state administration. He's been working to get this job done, and since January 1st, we've been going to send in administrative inspections. So this is what you can expect in terms of working with local self-government in 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8203	Thank you. Mr. Lapčević, given that there have been certain changes in the order of the registered Members of Parliament, I respect your request and I will allow you to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8204	Thank you. Let's start with how this session was called and how the budget was adopted. So, according to the law and the budget calendar of October 15th, the finance minister provides the government with a draft budget law, and by November 1st, the government adopts the budget law and delivers it to the National Assembly. By December 15th, the Republic of Serbia's budget is due to be adopted, and that deadline has not yet been breached, but we have one illogical, or called session. On Saturday we received the material, the session was called on Sunday, and Article 172. The Rules of Procedure say the budget proposal at the National Assembly can begin at the earliest 15 days of the day of the adoption of the draft budget in the National Assembly. I think I've made it perfectly clear that these are irregularities that are so obvious that I don't know how the finance minister will be able to convince, ask the taxpayers to comply with the laws and pay what they owe to the state of Serbia, when the government and the ministries themselves don't respect their own laws. It's just illogical. So the main feature of the budget according to the prime minister's estimates and yours is that this year we will have a historical deficit, or deficit that is the smallest in Serbia's history. Is that true now? Is that right? Okay. On the website of the National Bank of Serbia, so it's a state-owned institution, whether it's a minister, it's this paper that says -- the republican budget deficit from 2005 to 2015, I'm going to read it succesively, in 2005 it was plus 0.5, i.e. surplus, minus 1.7 - 2006, minus 1.6 - 2007, etc., minus 3.2 - 2009, 3.4, 4.4, 5.4, 5.2, 6.3, 2015 I respect that, and this year it's lower again, but in any case far from the historical least. So we had a surplus just ten years ago, or 11 years ago. So much for whether it's true or not. On the other hand, let's do a little analysis of how that happened, for you, the historical smallest deficit. By reducing taxes, i.e. reduced salaries and pensions to educational workers, health workers, etc. by introducing electricity excise duties and by increasing tax rates. I understand, when we have a major deficit, it's logical that somewhere you're going to cut expenses and expenses, and it's logical to redistribute that to all budget users. But the first must be the ones to pass the law. Did the government, the ministries, do they work on themselves, did they cut their own costs? I didn't notice. If there is, I'd like to hear these bright examples, but I haven't noticed in either of these, or in previous budgets, that various ministries have drastically reduced their own spending on specialized services, contracted services, travel expenses, I don't know, these kind of things, I haven't noticed. It is not necessarily then that you ask that pensioners give up their pensions, which are earned and which are constitutionally reduced, to give up teachers, teachers, teachers, teachers from their salaries, and that the government itself has not done so. That doesn't make any sense. On the third hand, what I'm saying, which is positive in this budget, is a few things. First of all, it's very detailed and I have to commend it, every honor, detailed budget, there's a lot to see in it, but I'm not sure I can do it in 24 hours as long as we've had. The second positive thing, is more segregation for subsidies in agriculture, it's an honor. That's what we're up for, I support. The third thing, which is good, is more investment for capital investments and it's a good thing, provided they're realized. But what bothers us is that the Transition Fund is shrinking from six to three billion, so for the whole three billion will reduce the Transition Fund. Which means there won't be money for those people who are victims of transition. Great if it will be, I'd like to hear from Minister Vulin – when the backlogs will be paid for four and a half thousand workers of the former electronic industry factories, the Nitexa machine industry, the Hawk, because it's a story that lasts more than six, seven years...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8205	Thank you. You've got another ten seconds. Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8206	I'll leave the second part of your questions to my colleagues. I'm just going to tell you the answer to the first question, or the first question was about the deadlines, and I've already answered that on several occasions. So, until the end of the arrangement with the fund. We ourselves agreed to a co-operation that obliges us to have real budget-planning sizes, to wait for the third quarter result. Data for the third quarter are available on 15 October. The fund came to Belgrade on October 19th. First, on November 2nd, we finished working with them and set out to prepare the budget. We're all together, from the preparation of all the so-called. the limit, instructions by completion, including a week of iteration to resolve the issue of differences and additional requirements of 103 billion, i.e. two and a half percent, about 2.5% of GDP, finished everything, working often, very, 24 hours a day on teams every weekend from November 2nd to the handover of the budget. So we, not regretting neither time nor effort, did everything we could. We were late at the beginning, as they say – the train is late at departure, but because we wanted to provide the best and most realistic starting base, it means realising GDP. If we'd done it before, we wouldn't have those 2.5%, 2.7% this year. We wouldn't have 3% real growth in next year. We wouldn't have, therefore, a real space within which we had less to limit all the sizes we planned. As for part two of your question... Remind me, what was your second question after the budget-making deadline? You had another question regarding ministry expenditures, salary hikes? So, like this, the restrictions we applied and sent to everyone included the implementation for nine months plus the assessment of the realisation by the end of the year plus or the correction to reduce the number of employees in the middle of the economic outflow and the planned rationalisation plus the completion of the competitions that were under way based on the approval of the commission which approved it as an exception to the rules of freezing employment from December 2013 plus, or corrected for all of the following things that we had in the given ministries. So we've had a cut in costs wherever we can, but allowing the collection of energy and other sizes we've seen. We had a reduction in those costs that we voluntarily reduced ourselves, such as travel costs, living notes, and so forth. So we've been very dependent on the category of ministry spending in accordance with the principles that we've adopted, and we've made it clear to all the users of the budget from first to last including the ministry and all the others. Some units of local self-government have continued to design it in this way. Some users of funds, such as independent institutions, have continued to design in their own way. Everyone else has accepted the restrictions we agreed there would be restrictions on everyone. They were strictly moving within these limits. Remind me. You had another topic that just slipped away. Pick up the line and remind me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8207	I thank Minister Vujovic. National MP Milan Lapčević. Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8208	Dear Minister, thank you for your answers. The government announced perhaps 15 days ago, the prime minister announced in fact that there would be a reduction in the income tax and parafiscal burdens on the economy, which is indeed a fully healthy measure towards the economy. There is no sound budget, healthy finances without a strong and healthy economy, but a real business incentive would be exactly this measure. That's not in this budget. Can you tell us what's going on? On the other hand, what you're telling us is that the government has been working for a month or less than a month at 24 hours a day to create this document that has 1,323 pages. Excuse me, we MPs, I suppose, all of them, and at least those from the minority couldn't make it to this document by Friday afternoon. How can a live man of 1,323 fold in less than 48 hours? It's an incorrect relationship. On the third hand, yes, I respect what you've been doing, watching our GDP growth, but I'm sorry, elections in Serbia vote for political parties. I guess the people choose their power. It is impossible for the IMF to determine what will be done in Serbia. I guess you're supposed to be the Government of the National Assembly, not the IMF. Tell me one more thing, we have a story about increasing subsidies to foreign investment firms, investment investments. It has been said that for the Endava software company there will be no subsidy and that there is no subsidy, and it is written in the budget on page 97. ... It is numbered “Endava. “...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8209	Time, Mr. Lapchev. Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8210	Let's get back in line, so I said we worked 24 hours in that part of our business and we gave it up. Politics apparently had access to the budget a week before others from the finance ministry's website, but it's a matter of informal access, not a matter of formal budget sharing, and you're absolutely right to expect us to honor the budget calendar. It doesn't impose anything on the IMF. Our program was supported by the IMF and we care, as someone cares about the doctor to support the mentor until he defends the doctor, so we care that the IMF supports our program. So they don't impose anything on us, we just agreed on what parameters we need to complete the budget. These parameters, if you agree on global parameters, macroeconomic parameters, and you have to implement the whole budget process by procedure and by content, and to hit those needle ears you agreed on, it's a very demanding process. That's all I said. The fund doesn't dictate anything to us, the Fund can leave tomorrow and we can say – thank you very much, we don't need you. They can leave tomorrow. I think it's good for Serbia to complete a three-year programme by doing it in the best and best way, not only what we're expected to do, but what suits us. It's our responsibility to have solid finances, and it's our responsibility to have a high-quality budget, and it's our responsibility that we've turned the rate of growth into growth in fiscal consolidation. Therefore, I say to you both personally and professionally, that we have achieved something that is in Serbia's interest. What the Fund agrees with is just an additional, positive effect. Now let's go back to that thing that I forgot, because they've mentioned it a few times already, and thank you for mentioning it, and that's a comparison question. We say the government is submitting to parliament a budget with the lowest deficit. So it's not a realization, it's a draft budget. Therefore, the figure you mention refers to the achievement of the 2005 budget, and I look at the figure when the budget was submitted to parliament, at the time it was 20.5 billion of the 1,750 billion of the projected GDP. Calculate, you'll get about 1.2%. So much was the budget in what the government submitted to parliament. The comparable deficit of this budget is when you get rid of the number 69.1 - 43.5 billion relating to project loans that weren't in the budget at the time, you're going to get a 25.6 figure, which is 0.6%. That's why it's twice as low as the budget, we're talking about which the government is submitting to parliament. Someone said, "What's going to happen?" I'm sure we can achieve a higher surplus, but I think that as an economist, we shouldn't do that, since our rate of fiscal restrictions isn't... So we agree in that part. We have reached a level that is sustainable, which reduces our debt participation in GDP, which enables us to grow permanently, and now the question is to close up those places where money leaks, these are public enterprises, to complete public sector reform, to complete investment projects and to move forward into sustainable growth. So in that part, we agree. I don't think we should tighten the belt so we don't cut ourselves into waists, but I think we had to do this much, get to the level when the debt in the GDP starts to decrease. As for the issue of tax burdens and wages, we all agree that this is too high and that we should reduce. But it's easier to say than to do, because you have a situation where, under the pretext, what the people say, you almost believe. The existing level is accepted as income level. If we cut this down, then we enter the sphere to assess. So you have to estimate how many people will come out of the gray economy and report it, and that assessment is the subject of an assessment. At that moment, it becomes a possibility for us. It's so much easier to do that. So, we haven't had time to do an analysis and get into this budget already with the changed parameters, but we can do it next year. That's where we all agree. So these analyses that we've talked about here, how much in the gray economy, what we can do, we all have to do it together, to think about next year, when we go into the cycle of the end of the budget, to be the subject, because together we accept the risk of saying, we're going to decrease. My estimate is that two-thirds of those who are currently paying taxes and contributions to minimum wage could pay more if the motivation system is better. If the rates were higher, it would be motivation and employee motivation of employers, but we have to carefully investigate and go without harming income, to deploy it to more people, to stimulate employment and to be competitive. We're at about 15 percent below what the OECD measures and, therefore, we can try that, but we have to do it carefully. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8211	Thank you, Minister Vujovic. (Milan Lapčević, from town: Replica. Mr. Lapčević, we're closing a circle of replicas. (Milan Lapčević, from the post: Just one sentence. Wait a minute, Mr. Lapcitz. You've had plenty of time and to ask a question and to make certain findings, I've given you extra time, and now we're moving on with our work. The word has the People's MP Goran Jesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8212	Thank you. We had this morning and yesterday afternoon a rather unpleasant debate, and you can see that we can have a great debate in a place like this. There are various reasons, of course. This is a couple of excellent political issues and the prime minister knows it well. The campaign is at the door, and I understand that, but I don't understand why the MPs of the opposition have offended each other who had something against or pointed out something that wasn't good in the budget. In any case, several times we heard, yesterday afternoon and this afternoon, that this is the best budget in history, that there are no objections and only evil intentions can find a grudge to this budget. Minister Vujovicu, you know this well, the budget is just the government's intention to do something, and what the authorities measured is the final bill. When we have a final account in front of us, then we can say whether this budget is successful and whether your intention was successful or not. Yeah, a couple of excellencies are open political issues some here, and we haven't got an answer who's gonna make it happen next year this budget? I think it's an important political issue, on the one hand. On the other hand, if we didn't have an excuse again, like you did yesterday morning, that we couldn't respect the budget calendar because we had a technical government, so nearly half a year we had a technical government or seven months, and what effects would that have on this plan of yours, first of all, which is very ambitious in the domain of income for next year? You've made a budget that we can't say isn't good, but we'll know when we have the budget. Unfortunately, we haven't seen him, except for the Ministry of Agriculture, which the Minister delivered to the Agriculture Committee, where we saw that the execution from the third quarter of this year since the estimated 23 billion direct payments was only six billion by the end of the third quarter of the Ministry of Agriculture. That's the official report we got from the Department of Agriculture. I hope that's not the situation and that it shouldn't be. A bunch of agricultural producers have a problem and are waiting for five, six, seven thousand euros to throw up and I don't know when that vomit will happen. It's a problem for someone who's been waiting seven or eight months. On the other hand, you said yesterday, and I'm going to quote you two things: "We started the budget process the day after the conditions came." Then again, "It is in our interest to start the budget process later." I understand absolutely, I've been making 20 budgets for you in the AP Vojvodina, which in local self-government, but let's change the Budget System Act. Don't get into the stories of us all having the same grudges, breaking the law, and this is one of the few laws that we have precisely defined terms when we have to appear before MPs. Let's change it in terms of date, because we're just going to have to negotiate with the IMF. As far as the budget is concerned, we have here that you have serious incomes and increases in the revenue side predicted. I'll say it quickly. For example, 11% of tax revenues, income tax 12%, corporate income tax 12%, value added tax about 9% or 39 billion, if I was able to get a good chance of reading this data, which means we need to increase spending next year at 200 billion. I think that would happen if we had to send all 250 of us to Lapland's Santa to make it happen. I'd like that to happen, but I doubt it, especially if we're talking about a situation where we have a problem with the environment, that's what the prime minister was talking about yesterday, and that environment, first of all business, doesn't just mean in the due business list of building permits. Of all the business entities in Serbia, one percent may invest in the new Greenfield, but nearly 99% need to invest due to credit, make land conversion, and disaster is a business environment. Let's not talk about the courts that handle it, the work-law disputes and all the other disputes in the domain of the economy are terribly bad. So we have expectations that are too high. We have seven billion increases in excise cigarettes, right? We expect to make seven billion in trend when the number of smokers decreases and when they collect cigarettes, to replace that income. I say once again, all 250 congratulations together to send and ask Santa to do it for us next year. We took the money, I end up now, where it was the easiest. We heard this several times today – from pensioners, from the public sector, from health care, from education. Please, do something, we'll lose the doctors, we'll lose the educators. Hundreds of doctors finish their German language in an accelerated course, nurses who want to leave this country. If we don't do something and find the money on the other side, first of all in these subsidies to a public sector that doesn't produce results, we've been talking about it all day, we'll lose our chance to all have the right to treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8213	Thank you. The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8214	Thank you. In particular about the mention of budget implementation for 2016, I must inform you that the implementation of the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection will be over 90%, depending on everything from the coming days, and how intensively we will succeed in all the solutions to overcome. I can tell you that over 96,000 solutions in the Agrarian Payments Authority were issued this year. What I can proudly say is that over a billion and 200 million just on 30 November, 1 December and 2 December, we paid billions and 200 million dinars for 5,440 solutions based on investments. What I can also say in the budget structure of the Ministry of Agriculture was just one thing where it was said, 87% of the agriculture ministry's budget will be related to subsidies and capital expenditure, current expenditures in the structure of the budget from 14.2% to about 9%. So 1.556 billion dinars will be less at current expenditures and all of this will be transferred to subsidies and capital expenditures. Everyone in the theory of budgets, executions, everything we have, about 91-92% of budget implementation, is thought to be well-provoked, well-planned and well spent. Our intention is until the moment the vault is closed that as many solutions as possible within the Agrarian Payments Authority are realized. Where we had no money, the internal redistributions within the budget, we were able to replace that, so that all those who invested in 2016 would be paid off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8215	Thank you. Mr. Jesic, you will get the word, but first of all, the representatives of the promoter have the advantage. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8216	Thanks for the inspirational questions. They're really good questions. Here, I'll answer you now. Since we have precise figures in our circumstances and we've spent those 15 days we're talking about right now by talking about these numbers, I'm going to read you the complete figures. So if you compare this budget's proposal to last year's revenue, there were 997 billion on the side of the income, and this year about 95 billion more. However, if you compare with the execution and our assessment of execution for this year, the difference is only 18 billion. So our estimate is only 18 billion, so it's extremely conservative. I'll tell you now. So the estimate for this year is 1,074 billion, which consists of the tax 880 billion, the non-taxed 184 billion, and the donations of 8.9 billion. Breaking taxes. Taxes are 49 billion per citizen income tax, we expect 56 all next year. Tax on the profit of legal persons – 72 billion, we expect only 74, minimum increase. Value added tax - 447.6 billion, and we expect 466, so less than 20 billion increases; 447 we expect to be executed at the end of the year, and only 20 billion more projected. Extraordinary conservative. Accize – 265 - 271, only six billion more project. Customs -- 36 billion, and we're projecting 38.6, only two billion more. Finally, other non-tax revenues 10 billion and 10.4. In non-tax revenues – 184.8 billion this year, these are dividends and all the other elements that we have, we expect 22 billion less, only those that we think are permanent when we design. So our revenue projection is extremely conservative, most likely, we're almost certainly making bigger revenues, so both on the VAT side and on the excise side and on the non-tax revenue side, sure. So, we have a huge buffer that all of these things that we talk about over the year if we're going to go into the budget. Our risk is just not to let us leak in some supplemental places of funds. Now to go back to that thing that sounds terribly logical, but it's not easy to do. I heard firsthand that 50 of the best nurses in the clinic are learning German and going to Germany. The only good news is they can come back, planes fly the other way. But what's important to us is that we don't have a simple way of rewarding quality and selectively increasing wages, that's our problem. So we don't have the space to increase everyone, and we don't have a way to increase those who deserve it. That's why we're going with this little selective salary increase that obviously isn't enough, it's less than our wishes. It's something we share together as a problem. It's this famous modification of the old ravine in today's conditions. I'd like to do it, but I don't know how. I don't know how because people are gonna block us. You can't fire without a systemization, we need to complete all systems. Those who don't come to work at all, you understand, those who don't contribute at all. So the question is big for all of us. It's a matter of relationships to work, it's a question that even within what we have, we deploy people. In some places we are told that people are missing dactylographers, assistants, etc. who don't want to go to another institution, so they have to do work contracts and temporary and occasional jobs to hire new people, and here people sit without enough work. So, that's said several times today, this is the money of Serbian citizens. We don't charge their wallets, they fill the budget and they say it's coming back. So let's be clear about that. Our role, and us as states that suggest you as MPs who approve of it, is to manage both us and you with the money of Serbian citizens. That's what everybody needs to know. So we don't have any greater rights here. We're just trying to explain it to everyone and explain where we have the restriction. So, I totally agree with your question, but I don't know, the right to tell you, the easy way to do it. What Minister Brnabic said – when we get a better picture of the situation and when we know that we are not working linearly rather than attacking those places of inefficiency, then we will be able to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8217	Thank you, Minister. The word has a minister, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8218	I'm so glad you brought up the doctors, and that's the thing, to remind you, that we found a ban on specialization. We found the situation that we have 40% of specialists over the age of 55. To have a specialist, it takes a minimum of five years. I'll only tell you what we've done so far, exact data. We hired 3,200 healthcare professionals, of which over 1,400 doctors, gave over 4,000 specializations. Everything went most transparently to the competition. So, what are we doing now? We're doing everything we can to hire people, not to get into a situation where we don't have specialists, because as it went, I would literally lose a specialist because when people retire, it takes you a certain amount of time, or a minimum of five years, to get them, to get them out of school. We're seeing people now, we're giving specials so we don't get into this situation, when you have a plan somewhere that you can just receive someone when someone retires or somewhere. We have now foreseen in this budget 2,500 people outside to receive, to prevent, in the event of retirement or someone leaving, to change jobs, to go abroad or anywhere, to run out of these specialists. So these are our actual numbers. What we have promised, there will be more than we have said in the last two months, more than 500 healthcare workers, and by January we will employ more than 500 healthcare workers. So we're not thinking from today to tomorrow, we're thinking for the next five to 10 years that Serbia is on a safe path, that there are enough healthcare professionals, enough doctors, that they can carry out the task that is needed.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8219	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Goran Jesic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8220	Thank you. I'm glad you gave me two minutes, since it's really short notice. I hope you realize we're talking about the same interest, that we can't get into a situation where we're headlong, about what you're talking about, the Honorable Minister Lonchar. Mr. Vujovic, obviously you've done an old budget figure, you've blacked out the revenues. I said, and I fenced myself at the beginning that only Mr. Edimovic was executed with a third quarter. The only Ministry of Agriculture has provided committees with a third quarter that arrived on time to congregation committees. But what's terribly important to me, there's no need for us to deem it, I agree with you, but it's terribly important, the story of agriculture. We've made a decision to transfer Exactly for agrarian payments from Sapac to Belgrade, so we've lost years of looking for space and incapacitating us to withdraw funds from the IPARD that are very important for agriculture, which would allow you to disburse your budget, and those funds that you need to locate for capital investments, and locate elsewhere, above all, I mean the necessary salaries, health workers and educational workers. It is also very important to hear from Minister Nedimovic when are we going to finish the Agrarian Payments Administration? That's what we asked your assistant, the secretary of state. It is terribly important that we do not lose dozens and hundreds of millions of euros because we are unable to withdraw the funds that belong to us. That's a rough estimate of about 250 million for the past four years, about 50 of our assets that would go in and 200 that belong to us from the IPARD. These are funds that can disbursement the finance ministry's budget is located on the other side, and capital investments are financed as they are financed in the environment, primarily by European money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8221	Thank you, Mr. Jesic. The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8222	I'm going to have to do all those unbelieving Toms who thought we'd never do this job to reason. You have had an external audit report from the European Commission since 8 August, which has put in place some blocking factors related to the accreditation of our Agrarian Payments Authority. Now I'm gonna tax you what's been done. As for the Law on Agriculture and Rural Development, this law is located, passed the Government, heading towards the Assembly, and it will soon be in front of the MPs. Here, I hear he arrived today. The other thing, we had one part of the problem that concerned employees and by the end of the year will be completely solved. These people will be admitted, so that this blocking factor will be put out of force. The third thing concerns IT and security, i.e. the facility of the Agrarian Payment Authority. The problem solved, New Belgrade will be accredited by the Agrarian Payments Authority and the fourth thing concerning the benchmark in relations between other authorities and the Agrarian Payments Authority and the matter will be over. What does that mean exactly? That we're most likely to re-apply in the second quarter for the accreditation of the Agrarian Payments Authority. How serious we are in this intention is saying enough that the funds, the participation of our ministry in the framework of the IPARD co-financing, are foreseen in the 2017 budget of 720 million. It is our idea that in the second half of the year, somewhere, in August or September, we have the first calls for an IPARD of 175m euros provided for by EU funding and also our funds as co-financing. As far as the Ministry of Agriculture is concerned, we're going to end this thing in the next year once and for all to put this thing ad act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8223	Thank you. The word has a People's Messenger, Nenad Christmas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8224	Good evening, welcome to all MPs and representatives of the government. I appreciate the efforts made by Minister Vujovic to better explain the budget and the other ministers, and thank you for that, but I still don't understand so much the praise of the budget since it makes sense to praise it only when we see the final account. Nevertheless, I will focus my exposure on revenues based on dividends from public enterprises and state-owned enterprises. It is predicted that this budget will be practically doubled, that with 7.5 billion, I don't know how much, they come at nearly 15 billion. So, almost double. Can you give us some clarification on the basis of which you have concluded that you will charge so much dividend from public enterprises since, let's say, they need to make a first increase based on sales, which I don't think is as likely to expect. Secondly, if they're going to cut costs to increase profits, they have to significantly cut their entry costs, which doesn't make sense to me either, given the system of public procurement we have, which is usually one alloy of corruption where it's very hard to get to have low prices. The only thing we have left, then, is, perhaps, a downsizing of employees. As far as we haven't heard, there will be some significant reduction of employees and rationalisation especially in these public enterprises. I'm getting to the point where I don't see why you've concluded it. What's also characteristic here, for example, is that, let's say, here's an EPS that last year had 11 billion gains and that would, for example, be. Should have paid that profit 50% under the Budget Law in the Republic of Serbia's budget, e.g. only in this year for the first nine months over four billion claims from its customers that are not charged. This is where the TV Bor naturally precedes. I'm now interested in what makes you conclude that you'll be able to charge when they can't even collect their claims first? Then what are they doing? They, fictitiously, have profits on paper, but because they do not have the money, because they cannot collect it, they are taking loans and on the basis of these loans they are investing in the budget of the Republic of Serbia. The only thing that I can conclude is that we continue to revolve around the same things all the time, and in fact, the biggest problem in all of this, this inefficient public sector, especially those state-owned enterprises that are not domestically managed and inefficient. So, come on, let's talk about it and make some new policy that will make this public sector better and improve it instead of us constantly figuring out ways to cover this inefficient public sector by taking loans to pay dividends in the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8225	Thank you. The word has a national MP, Maja Vidinović. The time remaining for the DS Parliament Club is six minutes and 22 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8226	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Finance Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is the fifth budget this coalition in power brings to parliament and each of these five has been announced as the best budget in history. The country's prime minister's reaction to this one of the best budgets in history is to tear it apart. Our intention is to talk seriously about him and this is an opportunity and I welcome Mr. Finance's way of leading and the way you discuss and discuss this, because I think we are obliged to approach these issues with full care and responsibility. We wrote in a very short time a large number of amendments and the question of this inadmissible deadline and these substitutes of thesis are inadmissible. It is not a question of our ability or inability to analyse the budget in two days, but of making fun of the citizens who voted for us, with their voice, who obliged us to represent them here in parliament. The budget comes from reality, and today it's dramatically difficult. In it is the Government, in which you as the finance minister that you are explaining this budget today, defined the frameworks on how this state, how each citizen and citizen will live in the next period. That's why defining the budget, and you were talking about it yesterday, isn't just an economic issue, it's a primary political issue, and much more important than that, it's a matter of relations and a question of justice and solidarity and justice and proper distribution and equal opportunities for all citizens and citizens and relations that you as a government have with them. Reduced deficits, Minister, there's no need to repeat that is good news. It's something we say hello, it's something that's meant to be. What's crucial is who paid the price of that cut. What is crucial, with what consequences those who have financed the reduction in the deficit are coming out. You know, if you cut pensions even more, that deficit will be smaller and you pay back some of the money you took, you don't increase pensions, but you only pay back a small part of what you took away. What does this government have to do with citizens, and what does it really have to do with this budget, which is not just a set of digits, which we're unfortunately talking about these two days, we're not talking about people and their lives, we're talking about numbers, what is it telling them? What, for example, does she tell young people? That there is no space in this budget for them and what is much worse, that there is no hope in this budget for them. When we talk about the employment ban you proposed to extend to the end of 2017. For years, I ask you to pay full attention, and Mr. Loncar has now spoken of it, all together, to look at our amendments regarding how we can end the ban on employment until the end of 2017. It's a chance for young doctors, young professors, young teachers, young scientists. The Minister of Education can tell you that there are occupations that rely primarily on public administration. They've been denied that chance, they've been denied every perspective and future, and that's something I ask you all to pay attention to once again. Since economic development, which I wanted to talk about a little bit more these days, we see, that is, only the government's intentions that are primarily viewed in the non-transparent cost of subsidising investors, this reminds you of the Fiscal Council. I don't want to talk about subsidies, losers, railroads, ER Serbia, that amazing project for which Serbian citizens have to allocate funds in 2017. "Endava", what Mr. Djurisic is, and what I think is extremely important because of a few things, the prime minister said yesterday that it is absolutely not envisaged and that no single dinar will be given to the company. "Startit," so it's an organization of our most successful IT experts, the healthiest part of the society this government should look at day and night in how it can help them, he raised his voice against it, you said, the prime minister said absolutely is not giving a dinar and then we saw at the 97th budget station that absolutely stands. Who should we trust, the budget we adopt or the Prime Minister's words? Something like that is absolutely inadmissible. Sixty-five billion, according to a special government act, is something that is absolutely inadmissible. Taking care of time, I just want to draw your attention to a few things, I'm sorry the Prime Minister isn't here, but the way he communicated and the way he turned his attention to three areas, I think they're very important. The prime minister said our asset to attract investors is political stability, the prime minister said in the same sentence when he opens up the possibility of a re-election. So, the constant state of emergency that we've been living in for four years, which is sometimes interrupted by coups, if it's the political stability of the candidate country, then I have no words. He said our advantage for investment is that we have the cheapest workforce. I think it's devastating, that it's wrong, that it's destructive, that it's destructive, that it's devastating for citizens and citizens. In the end, I commend you for saying earlier that the budget has been allocated and managed by citizens' money, and not by the government's money, so I have to protest strongly against it, not only today and yesterday's prime minister, but this narrative we've been listening to for years, it's that we've been giving, while you're moaning, while you're unemployed, while you don't want to work 24 hours. That's absolutely inadmissible. The situation is alarming, the atmosphere is alarming. Unfortunately, in such an atmosphere with a budget like this, unfortunately, there's not much good news for citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8227	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8228	I would ask that the subject of the conversation be the things that are written in the documents and that we have said. Please don't quote twisted, unchecked headlines in the paper. No one said or said anything, or did anything less called, to tear up the budget. Someone figuratively said he'd torn up a list of additional demands, which is something else entirely. So it's a list of requests for additional funding of 103 billion, which were past the budget, past the process, past the procedure. So what someone in the paper wrote was either a newspaper duck or a intentional mistake. No one mentioned anything, not even in a joke. But the message is very different. To tear up the budget means to throw away the budget. It was only about an additional 103 billion in which 6.7 billion were demands for additional salaries. I'm telling you, I'm telling you honestly, as a man. So what I heard, as a joke, not as a truth, was that. So this was just about the list of additional requirements and we spent a week to review these additional requirements and if we modulate as much as we can. Not the budget, that's the difference. Second, we're back on schedule. I'm telling you, we have a situation that we have. I promise that next year we will start the budget process, so if something stops us, let us stop, but we will start the process as it says in the budget calendar, because the European semester will make us start to have budget parameters for next year at this time. So we have nothing to lose here. Next year we'll go with the documents, we'll send a strategy, if there's any need for it to change, I'll ask you, because you have patience and we'll change it later. We had ready mid-term projections in July, but there was a situation as the government that the technical government could commit to anyone, parliament didn't function and who should we commit to the projections that de facto meant the official position of the government? Analytically, we were ready. Next year, here I'm saying, we start on time, so we'll see, we'll find informal things, we'll make informal meetings about the budget process, and we'll talk there, after all. But it's important to know. Sometimes some things are formally late, essentially not late. The same thing is this comment. So, don't rush the budget from the final account. We get the results of the budget every month, but these are our results that are at the end of 99.9% the same as the figures in the final account, but the final account must have an assessment of these things and must be subject to review. So we're late with the final bill. We handed over the final bill in June, which has to pass and audit and be approved by the government and as soon as it's over, you'll get it. As for the one who paid the price, I tell you, don't let us politicize this, please. We, look at the big numbers, when we started in this process, we were in a situation of severe fiscal problems. The estimate was 78 liquidity to bankruptcy. I've said that many times already. That was an estimate. We were at the time with an estimated 8.8% deficit, we didn't invent the problem, we solved the problem. Besides, if I were a politician, I would tell you, it's totally unpopular to do fiscal consolidation. Without necessity, it's not done, like you don't do hip surgery without need. So we did it because we saw the alternative was worse. If you ask who paid the price, I'll tell you the figures, so you can judge for yourself. The figures were 500 and a few billion pensions, 400 and a few billion, rounding, simplicity, wages, 120, 130 billion interest, 50 billion roughly capital expenditures, and the rest up to a billion, billion and 100 operating costs. We didn't have anything else to cut but those things. If we hadn't paid the interest, we'd have gone into the difolt and then we'd have one completely different situation where we were in isolation, a country under forced measures, all that Greece had gone through, there the salaries and pensions cut 30%, not 5.8% of the pension and not 10% of the salary. Look at the alternative, please. The alternative was twice, three times. The professional public has proposed to go with 20% wage cuts and 15% pension cuts. I've got the papers. I have the fiscal advice he asked for. I'll get you the papers. They asked for 20% reduction, because it was linear. It was without structural measures, by linear measures. We reduced the minimum, the minimum that was needed to start the process that we started and brought in. Therefore, the question depends on who you ask and how. We are, 5.8% reduced by a pension fund, with millions and 50,000 people who have pensions below 25 grand not losing a dinar, and people from millions to 50 million and 570 lost less than 10%. Only the last 200,000 pensioners had a pension reduction of more than 10%. They pay everyone only 10%. That was the price. What else did people pay for? They paid for losing the illusion of one. Who paid, what would they pay if we kept going the way we found it? I think the consequences would be terrible and no one's talking about it. So don't kid yourself. I have now seen a graph of the thickening of the difference between the primary and the fiscal deficit, which is the result exclusively of previous debt. From one thin line, it increased to 33.5 percent. So we have the moment when we started to manage the growing difference between the primary deficit and the fiscal deficit to 3.5%. That's the 130 million with the shift in debts that were made before 2012. That's the consequence. No one's using it politically, but here's what I'm gonna use now. It's a direct consequence. You've raised our deficit by 3% by borrowing without a basis. You raised us without a base of two billion just for fiscal liquidity in September 2011 and September 2012. First from a conscious decision, and the second from the inability to swim differently. So it's documented stuff, and we can analyze and extract it from this sequence. Don't let us play here. Don't accuse me of what isn't the government's fault. We didn't raise the debt by 10 billion. To inform you of one thing like this, the debt situation, what you're counting on, the increase in the debt on December 31st 2011 was 14.8 billion, and then you count on December 31st 2016 to 24 billion. It's 10 billion, but in 2012 it was extorted and there was a 3 billion increase. From 14.8 to 17.7. If we look at how we've been increasing our debt since we started reforming, not since... The first elections were in May 2012, so the government came in, as it is said, to take control of public finances somewhere in July, in August 2012, whether so, and since then, and what matters to me, which I am responsible for, is since 15 July 2014. Since then, the debt increase is exclusively for the deficit we inherited and which we are now reducing at the highest possible rate. Therefore, we expect that by the end of this year the deficit will be 73.5% and that next year it will decrease to 72.8%. These are our real projections and we're behind it. The most important thing is to turn it around with all that we have inherited from you, 3.5% of the interest in GDP has never had this country before. It is the legacy of direct borrowing in the period 2008, 2012, if you want my professional and personal opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8229	Thank you. (Goran Ciric, from the place: Replica. On what exactly? (Goran Ciric, from the post: The minister threatened me with a finger. No, don't. You know I'm at war here with the finance minister and he's often angry with me, but he's not really a man who threatens anyone. (Goran Ciric, from the scene: It looked scary. Don't, we're so scared of this minister. He professionally explained, he said his position, opinion, he said both personally and professionally and that's it. The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8230	Thank you. How much time left for the MP's group?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8231	There's 3.39 left.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8232	A few things the finance minister said said to get back to the point. The fact is, in this draft budget, it saves 20 billion dinars from pensioners. This is a fact. Twenty-two billion since the doctor's salary cuts, public sector teachers. The fact is it's 14.9 billion from electricity excises. The fact is that the profits of public enterprises are projected by 15.5 billion. These are the facts from the budget you proposed. A total of 72.4 billion. When you add it up with 69 billion, how much you plan the deficit, we get 141 billion in total. If we add to that all the taxes that have been raised since 2012, to this day, that's another 60 billion. So, if it hadn't been for the tax hike, if it hadn't been for the withdrawal of pensioners, doctors and teachers of wages, electricity excises, the profits of public enterprises, the deficit would have been 200 billion. You yourself told the board that the reason you went to this side was because you couldn't bring order to the public sector. That's the point of the problem. So you can't put order where you need to and then, of course, the only thing you have left is this. These are the facts from the budget. Now like this. In that same budget, you'll admit, you have the principal's payments at a guarantee of 41.95 billion, interest on the guarantees the state has given 5.6 billion. That's 47.5 billion. You will also admit that since 2014 you have 30 billion in activated guarantees, so in 2015 you have 30 billion in activated guarantees, so in 2016, in the first 10 months, 33 billion in activated guarantees. Then you can't say there's no alternative. Of course there are alternatives. The alternative is precisely in these numbers. So, if you don't put order into the public sector, of course, if you allow such guarantees to be activated, if you don't put order into any public enterprise, if you say Jelizara Smederevo makes losses of 270m euros in two years, if you give an ER subsidy to Serbia of 110m euros for two years, 2014 and 2015, then of course there's no money. The fact is that the deficit has been reduced, not by the introduction of order in the state, and you have said it yourself on the board, but by the fact that order has been introduced, or reduced deficit, which we really need, by taking it from the pensioner 20 billion, by doctors and teachers 22, your numbers not ours, electricity excises 14.9 and profiting from public domains 15.5. So these are the numbers from the budget. What we point to is that there is no reform, because you say there is no systematization of jobs. That's what we need. Of course it's the essence of everything, because there are these people that you mentioned yourself, who are in the public sector, we call them party personnel, in administrative jobs that don't do anything, they get salaries, so since we have all that, then on the other hand, of course, that you have to achieve other sources, like pensions and wages. The point is to introduce order. When you introduce order, you don't have to take pensioners.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8233	Thank you, MP. The word has a minister, Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8234	The prime minister failed to comment on your specific figures today. Now I'm going to tell you why your bill isn't good. So it's true that 5.8% is reduced pension fund i.e. payouts in that fund. Also, it's 20 billion. You've calculated that well, but it's also true that last year pensions went up 1.25%, which is 6.25 billion to all. Only those over 25,000 have been reduced, and this has increased to all 6.25 billion. It's also true that this year we decided to pay 5,000 to each of them, which is 8.5 billion. A million and 760,000 people times 5,000 is 8.5 billion. So this year alone is going to get 6.25 billion more than that first reduction plus, which means 14 and something. The difference isn't 20 billion, as you say, but the difference is everything... Let's figure out here, 14.25 and 0.5 is 14.75. So that's 5.25 billion. Here, calculate, please, 1.25% per pension fund that's 6.25 billion plus 5,000 once million and 750 thousand, that's 8.5 billion. That's how much it's paid now. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: I will explain that you can not do so. Let me explain. How can he not when paid? It's paid. So you have the amount of pensions in 2014 so you reduced it by 5.8%, which was 20 billion. In 2015 we enter by 20 billion less, and then in 2016 that pension fund increased by 1.25%, which is 6.25 billion plus 5,000 linear to all, which is 8.5 billion and that's 14.75 billion. The difference between the pension fund of this at the beginning and the one paid in 2017 is only 5.25 billion. This year, please go to math class, we're moving on, there's not this 8.5 billion, but there are 6.25 billion that we transferred from the previous year plus 1.5% which is 7.5 billion. That's 13.75 billion. The difference is 6.25 billion. So if we add 10 billion commitments to military pensioners in these two years, if we look at pensioners as homogeneous categories, there was 5.25% and here 6 comas something that is 11 minus 10, that's one billion of all pensioners got less after all of these for these last two years. (Saša Radulovic, from town: Au. It's not au, it's math. It's math, it's math. Now, let me tell you one other thing, this other thing you calculated, the increase in excise duty was so little, the increase in charge was higher, the increase in excise duty was exclusively for inflation last year, which was minor. The increase in all these taxes was minor, I showed results there, so the largest was 50 billion in income increases 50 billion were no tax, 60 billion tax, of which the largest part due to the increase in the level of natural activity, and a much smaller part due to the increase in the billing, and this increase in excise duties has already been included in this projected. So we're not with it at all, it's rounding up to such a small value that we haven't shown it separately. So there was no change in tax rates. Now that you've come up with the numbers you've come up with, I don't know. Sixty-nine billion includes 43.5 project loans, the figure you got, you multiplied that three times twenty billion, I said there's no more than a billion and a half. So, more than a billion and a half are gone, so I've calculated well, so now you count as you wish. (Saša Radulovic, from the post: I will now calculate. I'll do it. I'll do it. I'll do it. So that's what matters. So, because we didn't have an alternative, from where, we couldn't, what you're saying for the reduction means guarantees, the gro you mentioned refers to the periods before, these are guarantees issued in the period from 2008, 2012, 2013, they usually come with several years of delays. The alternative not to pay the guarantee is through the difolt of Serbia, that we are all 24.25 billion in debt and going bankrupt. If you think it's an alternative, it's an honor. It's not that. This isn't the company level. This isn't bankruptcy. In bankruptcy one company goes under ice, here the whole state goes under ice, it's completely pointless what you suggest, completely pointless, to understand me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8235	Minister Antic. Here you go. First proposing, first proposing laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8236	During the mid-day work, as well as in discussions of Christmas MPs and now MP Radulovic, it was heard that one part of the dispute over the contribution related to the dividends of public enterprises, with reasons that nothing serious has been done on their restructuring, financial consolidation. Even far enough to go with some completely independent estimates, that public enterprises are borrowing loans, to pay off dividends, or profits, according to the Republic of Serbia's budget. Of course, it is absolutely not true, nor does it have any business or economic logic. I want to speak very responsibly of companies in the energy sector, whose, I say, portion of portfolios are located in the Ministry of Mining and Energy, and to say that regardless of what the prime minister has estimated today that this whole process should go faster, better quality, that some serious shifts have really been made and I want to present several key elements. First, 2015 is the first year since I can observe these data, that all energy companies have ended up with a positive financial result, means Serbia's Electric Network, and Serbia's Elektroprivreda, both Transnafta and NIS, including Serbia's one that has really rarely done so in its past. Since 2014, we have been working on a consolidation project, primarily the Elektroprivreda of Serbia and Serbiagas, and I can really not, I don't want to brag, but I have to present a few key data, first of all, of Serbia's Electrical Networks, one of our best public enterprises, one of the companies with the biggest profits it has invested in the Republic of Serbia's budget in recent years, Serbia's Elektroprivred is going through a difficult but serious process of financial consolidation. In the past, together with the World Bank team, we have made a shift in many really key factors for the company's business, reduced net losses, increased payments, and is seriously working to increase operational efficiency. This all resulted in the company's real economic performance, no more problems with current liquidity, and we've all heard or read these days, that their account situation at some of its maximums, at about 500, seems to me, about four million euros today. Of course, a lot of work ahead of us, but what I find encouraging indicators of today's electricity generation in Serbia is 3.2% higher than in the same period in 2015, coal production slightly over 4%, almost 5% and a positive effect in electricity trade somewhere at two GVH levels, it's about 70m euros we exported more electricity than we imported in the same period last year. It seems to me, even in many now parameters and in many markets, electricity exports are our largest export element. Serbiagas, we all know the genealogy of her problems, we all know the difficult situation we faced when we came to the government of the Republic of Serbia a few years ago, big debts, historical debts since November 2000. What are really good successes of this government is that we were able to repay all the debts of Serbia, which we had towards Gazprom and Jugos gas for the period 2000-2014. We paid off, that way, about $200 million. From 2014 to today, Serbia has not generated a single dinar, euro or dollar of new gas debt to Gazprom or Jugoros gas. For the first time, it participates, in returning its loans, of course not yet to the extent that the Ministry of Finance would be satisfied, but these are really serious shifts and something that we can all be relatively satisfied with together. Transnafta traditionally works well, the NIS in which the Republic of Serbia has 30% ownership is a company that has managed to keep it on its feet during a very difficult period for the oil business, and each year to operate positively. We're not completely satisfied, we're working to fix it, and I'm optimistic that we can get results in that. Absolutely not accurate data that any of these companies are credited to liquid liquidity or, God forbid, to pay off profits in the Republic of Serbia's budget. The only credit lines, the only guarantees the Government of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the budget, or the National Assembly and citizens of Serbia, are for development projects, and only in those and situations where this is most favourable and extremely favourable for this country. You have in that part of the budget that defines the guarantees of the Republic of Serbia, that according to Germany's KFE Development Bank, the state guarantees two loans to Serbia's Elektroprivreda. One is a major and significant environmental project to ensure the long-term work of the Tent A Termopower Plant, related to the burn project, as well as to Serbia's Elektroprivreda project related to the Vetropark programme in Kostolc. Both credit and other credit are given a state guarantee because it thus achieves extremely favourable credit conditions, and when it comes to repaying credit, it is as always indisputable in the power of the Elektroprivred Serbia, never the state of Serbia has returned a single dollar, the euro, a dollar loan for the needs of Serbia's Elektroprivreda. When it comes to guarantees for the "Electro Network of Serbia", this is an even more favourable project for the Republic of Serbia. It is about funding the Transbalkan Corridor project and it is an extremely important share of the Transbalkan Corridor that passes through the Republic of Serbia. It's the construction of a new 400 sq ft power line between Kragujevci two and the King's Three, with the lift of the King's Three Trafo station to 400 sqm level. So it's a project that dramatically improves the general tensions in the Republic of Serbia, influences energy efficiency and represents, I say, the one bridge within the Republic of Serbia, which, on this great corridor from northeastern Europe, can transport electricity to the southwest of Europe. What is significant about this loan, Mr. Radulovic, and why we have defined ourselves for this particular credit line, which was followed by a 6.6m-euro KfW shell, is a 28m-euro project, a 15m-euro credit line, the rest is funded by JP's own funds, the "Electro Network of Serbia", i.e. now A.D. "Electro Network of Serbia". Why the credit? Well, of course, credit if it's been followed by a one-hand grenade, if it's the cheapest money we've agreed as a state at the end of the day, so no one uses their own cash if they have an extremely cheap loan for such an investment and that's some general rules. What I have to do, you've said it three times today, and you've mentioned it three times. So, when asking questions both during the morning and press conference, it is related to a completely incorrect information that you provide in the public, related to reconstruction and construction of a resort of the "Electro Network of Serbia" company in Kopalnik. In fact, the only thing that's true about everything you've said and what you're doing on your Twitter account and on the Twitter account of your Citizens Group is enough. What exactly is it? It is true that there "Electro Network of Serbia" has an facility, a resting place for the needs of its employees, the "Tepre" facility. This facility is indeed an old facility, in an extremely poor state, unconditional, for many years it has not been used as such and for many years this facility is located in investment plans, but due to the development of a detailed regulation plan, with this reconstruction, construction and addition of the facility awaited. In 2014, a detailed regulation plan was made and the implementation of the project joined. This project has been done extremely seriously. What I'm holding here, and what I'm showing you right now, is a study of the justification for building a new facility that is important, because of the fact that it's in the protected area, and it's also been through the process of the revisan commission. The "Electro Network of Serbia" primarily based on the obligation that, due to the fact that out of 1,300 employees in the "Electro Network of Serbia" company around, it seems to me, the exact number of 593 are working in extremely difficult conditions, or with a well-fused working time, to have an obligation which, by law, according to a collective contract to keep account, are absolutely responsible for those employees, to provide them with the prevention of work disability, recreation, rehabilitation. For this reason, the implementation of the project, which I repeat, is primarily only available to all employees of the "Electro Network of Serbia", as well as all their other resorts, seems to have three more facilities to rest. I've seen that you've announced that you have a memo from concerned or infuriated employees. First of all, I always stand at the point where serious people don't deal with unsigned memos. And even if they do, they have to very seriously access the analysis of all these elements, so I have to say that I seriously question whether it was some concerned citizens or whether it was just part of a dot, let me say, which you have or some weird emotions that you have towards ESM and their director, Mr. Petrovic, which you exhibit every little bit. The most common shooting in the blank as it was a story about whether it was worth buying or taking operational licking, but not to do it now. Since you mentioned this three times, I have to say, first of all, it's not true that this object as you wrote it has 451, and today you said 300 and some square meters of useful building surfaces. It is a total gross building area of 798.27 square meters. You've been looking at one part, I guess, but you haven't checked it out until the end, it's just the floor area of 451,12 square meters, but you've ignored the ground floor area of 119 square meters and the surface of the land under an object of 225,14 square meters. So it's 798 square meters. It's not true that 150 million dinars were paid for that job. You took into account the precalculated value of the works, in the process of ensuring that these works were carried out, a price was reached about 15% lower, approximately 127 was. It is not accurate that the construction of the facility cost, as you said, 3,000 euros per square metre. If so, I have to say a completely unargumented computer number, considering that you missed the number, it would be about 1302 meters square, but given that this is not just about building an object, but also about editing the object, its complete equipment with all the contents, rooms, inventory, kitchen and all the accompanying contents, I repeat the number that comes out in that way. Finally, it's not even the picture you showed on your site today. It's a technical object, I don't know who planted it on you, and I'm really sorry that you fell for such a lie, this is a picture of Mr. Radulovic building up at the moment. It is a new completely representative facility owned by the Republic of Serbia. So it's not about any waste or any waste of some state money, it's not about increasing state property. This facility will be worth twice as much tomorrow. Finally, with this ending, it is not exactly what you call this company, this company is not called the "Electro Networks of Serbia", but the "Electro Network of Serbia" and I ask you to be more precise in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8237	Thanks for the explanation. Gordana Komic. (Saša Radulovic, from town: Replica. You don't have a word. (Saša Radulovic, from town: Replica. Well, you don't. He explained the minister. You brought this up this morning, you can wave all you want with those papers. First I told you I was short-sighted and don't make fun of me for being short-sighted. So I don't see what you're showing me, you'll bring it here. (Saša Radulović, from town: Article 104) Don't make fun of me, I'm really wearing a huge dioptria. He is a member of Article 104(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. So, a very polite explanation of what you said this morning. Very polite. (Saša Radulovic, from town: Replica, two ministers. I'm not here to speculate. Or make a decision I don't make. Gordana Komic, if she wants to use the time, if not, no. (Sasa Radulovic, from the place: How are you not ashamed? ) Thank you for saying that I should be ashamed. I didn't expect anything from you but to be insulted. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: How do I insult you? Give us your word. No, you didn't get the word. I just let you guys hear the viewers say you can insult me, and I made it possible for you not to turn out after you said you didn't say something. You insult me, both for my shortsightedness and for everything. Gordana Komic. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: I am looking for a word. ) I would ask the DJB parliamentary group not to spoil every session and make a mess of it all the time. (Saša Radulovic, from town: Give us your word. ) You'll get a word in the end, you have a minute and 10 seconds per article 96. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: Give me your word. I've got two minutes for replica. ) Does the MP Gordana Komic want to speak? I'll try to make it work for you, if I succeed, it works. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: Give me your word. Two minutes. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8239	Thank you. Minister Nedimovic's question about the amount we cannot find in the Republika Srpska budget, which he announced during the debate, i.e. "grants of old-taps" for farmers, noting that it is good that they have submitted the budget to the board, as counterpart Jesic said, but was done by Minister Djordjevic for the Ministry of Defence and it would be good for all ministers to submit the budget. Minister Vujovic, since he has a dilemma about whether he has taken salaries and pensions, or not, I have a proposal for you from January 15th to come with the 2018 budget here in the Assembly, not with the whole budget. Come with 500 million euros, which are not enough for us, which we need to figure out how to get our salaries and pensions back, how to pass a law on non-linear income increases, how to introduce taxes, let's say churches, how to deal with the gray economy, and how to do what's hard, because kidnapping salaries and pensions is easy, and that's to do public sector reforms. The congregation serves that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8240	Thank you. Minister Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8241	Just one brief explanation. It is located in the part concerning the incentive of the Agrarian Payments Authority for one simple reason - because in that section, funds for young farmers are planned in that classification. It will later be subject to a special measure, which is detailedly regulated by the amendments to the laws on incentives in agriculture, which will be defined by the legal framework, later legal sublaws, in that group, i.e. in that amount of money.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8242	Thank you. Marinika Tepic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8243	I thank the president. Dear guests of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs, the difficult part of the debate so far has largely come down to what I would call an external policy or an external picture of the budget, which is how it happened, which is its framework, the contour, with a focus on how the deficit has been reduced, which is certainly commendable. I will look back at some things in as little time as there is left for LSV and that my President Nenad Canak did not arrive yesterday, and it is visible from some positions of budgetary direct users and what everyone understands who participates in this debate and who follows her naturally in direct transmission. First of all, what hurt our eyes is a position relating to services under contract of nearly 20 billion dinars, where for example. This is a small amount, but still worth the attention, for services contracted to the President of the Republic, an amount of 36 million dinars. We think that if these were funds, it would be better if they were planned for youth employment programmes, for example. as part of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, or as a member of the Fund for young talents of the same ministry, because we believe that young people, most gifted, with the right diplomats should be further educated and that they will serve the Republic of Serbia much more and better better than the current President of the Republic. What also hurt our eyes is an enormous amount of donations to the Serbian Orthodox Church, in multiple positions, both through the KIM Office and through other positions. And, to be clear, right away, what my president says -- we don't have a problem with God, but with his administration on earth, and that administration, unlike all other recognised traditional churches, which have four more, this clergy receives salaries from the Republic of Serbia's budget, this clergy receives pensions from the Republic of Serbia's budget, which does not receive any clergy of other recognised traditional churches in the Republic of Serbia. We believe that these enormous funds of many hundreds of millions of dinars were better invested in the Ministry of Education in improving student and student standards, and as far as the minister of education is concerned, he recognizes innovative ideas, and I am sure that these funds would, for example, be. I prefer to invest in new educational content on reproductive health, on sexual education, on HIV prevention, the Ministry of Health, for example. for the prevention of HPV virus, fatal to our women, at the highest level compared to all women in Europe. Furthermore, what deports us, since we are constantly listening to the cry of the plague problem, that we are getting smaller and smaller, and I don't know who all these budgets are going to serve if this continues, but on the other hand, this budget provides only 130 million for population or intelligence policy, while for example the budget for the government's air service is 270 million. So almost twice as big. Or if you want a budget fund for the treatment of rare diseases and conditions that cannot be treated in the Republic of Serbia is reduced to 200 million dinars, which is also much less than the government's air service. In addition to any direct budget user, each ministry, all agencies have additional special positions for travel costs. What I would point out is that the only direct budget user who has been cleverly planning his budget for us does not mean that others may not have been able to, but did not have more resources, such as. The Ministry of Youth and Sports, which I believe should have received more funding, both for the development of school sports, education parallelly, but because of the start of a new Olympic cycle, but in our view the only sound budget is planned at the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. Even if the Ministry were to reciprocate the amendments to the Law on the financing of local self-government and return it to the state of some time ago, when local self-government income was drastically reduced on the basis of profit tax, as the safest income for our municipalities and cities, then this budget would indeed be complete, and I hope that the minister will hear about it and that we will return to the initial stage, and that the basic Law on Local Self-Government was first changed, and only then following the Law on the financing of local self-government units. These are just some of the reasons, aside from the reasons that Nenad Canak referred to yesterday, which is why we will not be able to support this budget, but we will work through the amendments to try, with our contribution and hopefully, constructive proposals, at what is current and existing, to make it look better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8244	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Lonchar.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8245	I'll answer you just a few questions as you say. As for the HPV vaccine, I think you're aware that this year we started the HPV vaccine. Secondly, you have in the Assembly who has accepted to be a promoter of all that and that we have put it all in the budget and that it will go from next year's set for all of Serbia. Another thing about the budget Fund for the treatment of diseases for children who cannot be treated in Serbia has so far been spent 271,267,624 dinars. Forty-five was sent abroad, treated and cured. So 84 samples of various blood or other material were sent and a diagnosis was established. It was paid by foreign experts to come here to treat and operate on nine of our children in Serbia. We have absolutely enough funds in that fund, right now more than 100 million. As far as this fund is concerned, there's absolutely no problem here, and I'll remind you that we've created this fund and that this fund has been working since this government was formed. So these are the facts they're using and this fund will keep working and more. Well, that's true.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8246	Thank you. The word has an Ana Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8247	I would like to ask you briefly and appeal to actually look at the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government, he's on the Ministry's website, he's starting a public debate, and you're sending us comments. It would certainly mean something to us, because it's a system law, very important, and if we could achieve the highest degree of consensus, it certainly is important for us to have your experience in it, as regional parties. So, look at the law, and then we can see how we can fix it before it goes into procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8248	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8249	Thank you. Thank you for the information on the Bill Draft, which I hope will provide for a bar change from a monotypic to a political system of local self-government arrangements. I would only like further information from the Minister of Health on the prevention of HPV, or HPV vaccines he mentioned. In what regime are the girls from 10 to 14 years of age still concerned, which population will be covered, since the failure of the initiative, unfortunately, in the AP Vojvodina, collapsed some time ago around the HPV vaccine, primarily because of the disagreement of parents who had too little information to accept such a measure? As for the budget fund, which you mentioned, yes, I know, it was established in 2013, however, and before that, revenues under the Law on Games on Happiness were partly compared to 40%, so one fifth of which, apart from the Red Cross, research on rare diseases, etc., were defined somewhere. It was supposed to be a budget fund and some of the funds were being pooled to investigate rare diseases. I don't know how they spent it, but I'd like to know that too. I know that the Fund was set up in 2013 and I have already held several sessions in a row with an initiative to amend the law on gambling, which 5%, based on the law on gambling, would increase to 25% the funds that would additionally be added directly to this budget fund. Because as satisfying as you say he is, we still have a situation where we have humanitarian appeals through SMS and humanitarian concerts to provide the most vulnerable groups with treatment outside our country or, as you say, by bringing foreign experts to intervene here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8250	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8251	I've heard from you for the first time, but with this gambling fund, or anything, it doesn't matter and they don't charge. This fund was mostly filled from the budget. I'm glad you agree with this fund. This fund is what went through all those actions, text messages and concerts and all that. This is a good opportunity to tell everyone, I've seen a lot of actions that have taken place without even trying to reach this fund. This time I appeal to all people, they all know that this fund exists, but it can't help someone if someone doesn't ask for help. There, that's a fact. I saw a couple of actions, but it wasn't relevant. So there's a fund, but it can't help someone who doesn't want to. The fund has enough money, for this fund there won't be any problem, but you have to contact the fund to help you. These are the numbers related to the money I told you, which is spent and which is there and about all those whom this fund is helping and who are going to help. As for the HPV vaccine, you're right, that's an extremely sensitive question. That's why we carefully went in with him through those pilot projects, so people could see. We're just going to have a debate here in the Assembly, so based on that and the moods of all of those, we're already scheduled for these public hearings and debates, I think next week, come, everyone has a right to speak their mind. We don't want to impose anything on anyone, especially in those areas where we have different opinions. But once again, I urge you to use this fund, and it exists, and there's no need for text, or for charity concerts, this fund can help anyone who needs help.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8252	Thank you. Next Thursday is a public hearing, the Health Committee has scheduled, I don't know exactly what time, but we'll let all MPs know. The word is Vanja Udovici.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8253	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, just a moment to answer about the Youth Fund. Since I've been president of the Youth Fund, the government has increased the amount of scholarships from 25,000 dinars to 30,000 and from 1,000 scholarships to 1200. This year, we are late for the opening of the competition for the adoption of the budget, because we want to increase the number of scholarships this year, so we are increasing 50 scholarships to the new competition, i.e. Next year. I think it's a strong message for young people, that in these three years we have increased from 1,000 now with a new competition to 1250 scholarships, primarily for students of the final years of primary studies. You also mentioned the development of school sports. We've worked very well together in the previous period. What I want to say is that, in relation to the Youth and Sports Ministry's budget, the resources are defined for the renovation of the gym in that part that we want to restore sports props, and primarily I mean goals, baskets, construction, balls, nets, and in collaboration with other ministries. In this way, the government wants to encourage a strong message with the Minister of Education, but also with Deputy Prime Minister Mihajlovic, that we want to restore all sports infrastructure through the definitions of funds over the next two years, perhaps in a shorter period of time, perhaps. props in all physical halls throughout Serbia. In this way, we will encourage strengthening and developing school sports, as well as the education system itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8254	Thank you very much. The word has Enis Imamovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8255	Thank you, President. Dear Ministers, I would like to begin by saying that the MPs of the SDA Sandzak will not support this draft budget. From the perspective of Bosniaks, but also of all citizens living in Sandzak, this budget proposal has not given an adequate solution to the huge problems that have been accumulated in Sandzak for decades. We, with a few amendments, tried to fix a solution like this and give answers to these accumulated questions. Although it is one of the youngest regions in Europe, Sandzak is huge unemployment, especially among young people. It is up to three times that of the Republic average today, from 53% unemployment in Novi Pazar to about 60% in Tutin, and is similar with the Shadow, Prepolje, Pribo and Novi Varosha. As a direct result of this poor government policy, we today have thousands and thousands of young people who go to Western European countries every day and do the jobs of the weakest paid and even those with college degrees. What we are also very interested in in Sandzak is the means to build Corridor 11 through the Cave. We propose that the 2017 budget be set aside with the means to develop a spatial plan that will in some way remove any doubt that this project will be developed. The lack of these funds in the budget also removes the big question whether Sandzak citizens will be kidnapped and this project, as well as all capital projects so far, such as the Railways, which we have been waiting for over a hundred years, factories, roads, hospitals, etc. We have proposed amendments, as I said, to include in this budget the funds for the reconstruction of the regional roads of Novi Pazar and Novi Pazar-Tutin and Novi Pazar-Senica, because these are the roads guaranteed among the worst roads in the country, and Novi Pazar-Tutin is in the worst condition.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8256	Thank you. The time that belongs to your parliamentary group has expired in principle for this item of the agenda. The time has elapsed which belongs to the parliamentary group you belong to, related to this item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8257	All right, we'll continue to discuss the details when we discuss the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8258	Of course. There is a debate on details. Thank you. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8259	Dear Members of the People's Parliament, the honourable ministers, the MP group of the Serbian Movement of the Dveri, of course, will not vote for this budget. Listening to the Prime Minister and the Minister's statement, I'm really wondering if we live in the same country. Obviously, there is one state of Serbia that is located only in your media performances and another that is in reality. I think it's time someone woke you up from that fairy tale and told you that next to your colorful lie, fairy tales, there's another fairy tale, Hans Christian Andersen wrote it, and that's "Care's new suit," so the Emperor is naked. This budget is one set, on the nocturnal very legs, especially the revenue side of 1,092,883,504, not to mention further, is a large figure. You put an unreal increase in income tax on citizens, from 45.4 billion to 56 billion, and 19%, respectively. Part of this increase refers to spillage from local self-government. We recently passed a law that we have criticised, where you take 4.8 billion from local self-government, but you also predict 5.6 billion increases in income on earnings, which is practically with this mode of employment and this employment rate impossible, since we know that more people get fired than they start working relationships, i.e. that the wages themselves do not grow. But you admit it, because you're going to take over 20 billion employees in the public sector. The corporate tax is also unrealistic and overrated. You expect to increase it from 58.3 to 74.4 billion, 22% increase in corporate income tax, which is indeed an exceptional leap, meaning 16.1 billion dinars of increase, and then you would have to make a bigger projection of gross national income growth, if it really is that much growth. I don't really know who you're charging from, since your main foreign investors, who you're so boasting about, are the very companies that don't pay this tax. I ask the question – how can you boast about foreign investment, when it is a burden that affects domestic legal persons and domestic entrepreneurs, and these biggest ones who have received so many subsidies that they come to Serbia to earn their profits and do not pay profit tax here? Income from VAT. And that's where you expect growth. But here, which is problematic especially, is VAT revenue from imports from 333 billion to 357, compared to income on domestic goods from 90 billion to 106 billion. So the increase in goods from imports is 24 billion, and the domestic increase in imports is 16 billion. You expect a further increase in imported goods in Serbia amounting to over 75% when looking at this VAT structure. This does not encourage domestic economy and domestic production. It is another serious problem that Serbia will develop if we depend on imports. Depending on imports, it also shows your planned increase in customs revenue from 34 billion to 38 billion. It is just over 10%, not raising customs duties, which means you expect additional growth of imported goods and additional production suppression in Serbia. The increase in excise duties, we just heard you're taking from citizens 15 billion almost dinars on electricity excises, but I'm curious – how do you expect to take 144 billion from excises on fuel? So it's a growth of about eight billion compared to the previous year. If we have announcements that the price of oil in the world will rise after the agreement between Russia and the PKK, the price of dollars is also rising, so it's really interesting how you think to impose an additional burden on citizens. So, what does this show? Unreal increase in profits from public enterprises from eight to 16 billion dinars. I really don't see how you can and how you expect so much income, unless, of course, they're planning on taking loans to unrealize their own profits. That would also reflect the growth of gross national income, and you didn't see that coming. Also, you cut public sector profits by 22 billion, you take extra money from citizens. How do you charge the budget? Only, Serbia's citizens are full of budgets, exclusively domestic companies full of budgets. Another problematic item, please explain, we didn't comment much. The funds needed to finance the budget deficit, the acquisition of financial assets and the payment of principals on the basis of debts to domestic and foreign lenders for direct and indirect commitments of the Republic of Serbia, from Article 1 of this law, totalling 858,870,388,000 dinars, will be provided from loans to domestic and international commercial and multinational financial institutions. So an additional debt for nearly 860 billion dinars. You really are the champion, Mr. Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8260	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8261	We'll have to go through the numbers again. So, the figures we are designing for the 2017 budget are based on realisation for the first nine-ten months, depending on the category, projections by the end of the year and then a very conservative increase for next year. Let's take it in a row. Income tax – 49 billion percent by the end of this year. We're maybe 1% plus-minus. So, 49 billion, you said yourself, 4.8 billion are going to be given a change of the Law on funding of the locals and the difference is, it's projected 56. So that's only seven, of which 4.8 is that increase and 2.2 is next. If you think it's unrealistic, explain it to me, please. So the difference between 49 and 56 is seven, of which 4.8 is the redistribution of income tax for citizens between cities, municipalities and the Republic, introduced by the Law on the financing of local self-government. A colleague, Brnabic, defended the law in early October. Getting legal faces is 72 billion percent, in the budget we have 74.4 billion, just 2.4 billion more, very conservative. Value added tax – 447.6. Estimated performance for this year which is bigger than the plan, but you are looking at the budget, and I am telling you the achievement plus projection by the end of the year – 466.0 for next year. So the difference is less than 20, the difference is about 18.4. You mentioned VAT figures on imports, but the net domestic VAT, since gross domestic VAT includes in itself and VAT refund as source. We designed it based on the best estimates we have on the movement of exports and imports. I was just saying growth rates and exports and imports, world market price developments and VAT estimates on import goods that have always been quite good to us so far, and in exports I admit that we have an element of uncertainty in the assessment of vomiting, as this depends not only on some previous dynamics, but depends on what level of VAT credit companies have. So, a company that starts a new business and imports equipment, it raises that level of VAT credit to make it easier and faster to get sick. So she forms a loan and then she gets the money back from there in no time. The companies that finished the investment are reducing it. There it takes a much more complex model than what we have to assess this dynamic, plus we have about six thousand taxpayers dealing with non- VAT-returning stores, so, pulls the VAT and shuts down the company, or the company goes bankrupt on purpose and sells it to a friend. We have people from 140 to 170 companies closed behind us and we told the IRS when such people apply for VAT refund – see before you return because these companies disappear and damage the state for huge funds. Secondly, with excise duties we have 265 billion all together, that includes excise duties on oil derivatives and on alcohol and on all living things, we have an annual planned increase in excise duties that are always on the calendar of the increase in excise duties and these laws will be in front of you next week. That minimal increase and some increase in traffic gives us an increase of 277, that's only six-seven. So 277. Also very conservative. This doesn't even count with a more serious reduction in the grey economy that we expect. So, we expect, like this year, to transfer both VAT and excise. The near rate of inflation is a mere indexation, you understand, which will enter the rates and we do not expect any effects of reducing the grey economy, and it is realistic to expect them and to have them, as we expect to reorganise the tax administration and improve the work of the tax administration. Customs 36.3, you mentioned this, 38.6, extremely conservative. So, just what the increase in imports gives you, explains this increase. So no change in any rate, no change in any other parameter. We finally have the rest of the non-taxes, they're literally constant 10.2 and 10.4, not tax revenues, 184.8, 162.6, less. Less by 22 billion, because when you look at the details, you'll see that there are elements where we estimate. Here, among other things, they come in and dividend and everything. This is one more detailed analytical examination needed to see this. We're going very conservatively. And when you add donations that, based on the figures we have, increase from 8.9 to 13.5, you get the figure where the total revenues in 2017 are estimated to be 1,093 billion rounded by 1,074 billion estimates based on execution. So the difference is literally 19 billion. That's underrated to me. If anything, there's space here that's gonna be better than this, and that's why I'm saying, what we're planning, we're planning conservatively on the side of the income, and we expect it to get better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8262	Thank you. National MP, Srdjan Nogo, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8263	I understand you, Mr. Vujovic, but I still have to tell you as a citizen, it is not easy to endure all the accusations committed by the SNS, or the previous three governments. Fuel excise, how do you expect to grow if there's a fuel collection? Because you, when the fuel price was at the historic minimum, we had the most expensive fuel in the region. Imagine if it starts to rise the price of fuel, how will it further affect our budget? Well, then, let's see inflation, since transport costs are going to rise? Well, if you're counting on a pay cut, let's say, 22 billion for public sector employees, did you also count the VAT revenue cuts, because their purchasing power is going to fall? It's a very awkward thing. I understand how you look from the point of view of the state, but what to say is a simple citizen. How long will a Serbian businessman or a Serbian worker be able to withstand one of these charges? I would also ask you to comment on additional, almost 860 billion debts, because if it is a thousand and 93 billion planned revenues, you want 860 billion, additional dinars, to lend to Serbia. Among other things, part of these debts, nearly 13 billion, is taken by the Ministry of Business, well, then 11 billion from that credit debt abroad to invest in foreign investors. Instead of, say, investing directly in the economy, it invests in foreign investors that they come, destroys our competition. That's why, let's say, 75% of the goods on our market are from imports. We have a great need for the substitution of imports. It's a great need, and I urge the government to do something about it. The killing, so, the competition, takes over the market, is all the profits from Serbia and the workers who pay miserablely, we saw the case with the worker Jure, who got fired when she got cancer, and yet no payment for the worker was made for what "Jura" got from the state for her. That's one very difficult item.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8264	Thank you, Mr. Nogo. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8265	Since the prime minister has already answered the question of the figures referred to in Article 1 of the budget, the last part of the first table called b, the financing account, let me repeat it. So 859 billion is round, because they're so-called. gross financing needs. Gross funding needs include, as logically, a deficit of 69.1 billion and all else is the refinance of commitments that come next year. That's 789 billion of you. Divide that by 120, that's about six billion euros. Of the 24 billion, that's about one quarter of our debt, coming in next year. The average age is five years long, and that's all those bonds that we've issued, that come in, that are mostly refinanced. Maybe it's getting a little bit more, but we're getting a net number here. So we're going to return one piece without refinance when they arrive, or we're going to pay off the principal and we're not going to do it again, and we're going to recycle most of it maybe with a longer term, maybe with the same or similar deadline, from 53 days to ten years. So six billion comes to refinance. If we had by any chance, here, let's say, to sell everything we have to Telekom and Airport, we could go back if we wanted to, but that wouldn't be good, but what's the point, that's to refinance this, but now at lower rates, at lower interest rates, and preferably longer. So the burden on the budget goes down. Remember, it's coming down from 140 billion to 133 billion, and it's going to include this effect, that based on a better credit rating country, that disgusting foreign country is admitting us a reduction in interest and we're approaching the countries that are ahead of us and at the level of income and by everything in the region. We have interest which is minimally different now. There's never been a lower difference between us and the Eurofish. Euroribor is negative. We're now refinanced under two, two, seven, two and a half percent. This reduces the average debt price by about 40.50m euros to every billion euros. Therefore, we expect this reduction to save Serbia by one six billion euros, that we will save about 200m euros. That's what you can see in a reduction of six, seven billion interest costs. So that's an explanation, that's a 69.1 deficit, and we're certainly going to have to finance it, but since it's out of that 69.1 and 43.5 are project loans they already have secured funding sources, and we expect that from the loan to support the budget to finance the difference. So we're in a very comfortable situation. Therefore, this refinancing doesn't need to confuse anyone with every country. Each country has a gross funding needs that are more than a net funding requirement, and the net is, a deficit plus a liquidity change that we probably won't change next year. It's minimal, and you'll see it at the bottom of this table, it's kind of a minimal rounding, it's a liquidity change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8266	Thank you. The People's Messenger Miladin Shevarlic has the word. Here you go. The time remaining for the Dweri parliamentary group is three minutes and 42 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8267	Thank you. Tomorrow's the big jubilee, 170 farming cooperatives in Vojvodina. I ask, Minister of Agriculture, whether it will continue its destructive policy towards agricultural cooperatives by financially supporting the same way as the registered agricultural holding of a natural person. Secondly, I ask the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Agriculture and the former Minister of Agriculture, and the current Minister of Economy, but also the Minister of Labour, Social Policy and so on, to find a solution and corrections to the injustice that was done in 2012, when a text message fired 1658 advisers, including a group of 50 advisers in the Nis agricultural service, who did not receive five million 235 000 and five hundred dinars, and these funds were returned from the Nis Agriculture Service to the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Correct this injustice, so before today, according to the National Employment Service, we have five thousand 513 unemployed graduate engineers and veterinarians, agronomists. Among them are 26 doctors of science and 414 masters of masters and specialists. The only constant of all governments including all governments of this regime since 2012 to this day is that no year has been met by law on a five per cent obligation, a minimum five per cent boost for agriculture and rural development. Except for two years, since 2004, it has been a cracterist for all previous governments as well. Thanks to the courtesy of the Ministry of Agriculture, I was able to obtain information on the planned and implemented budget for subsidies in agriculture and rural development from 2013 to 2015. This budget is higher for 2017 than the 2016 budget, but it is only at the level of the budget that was paid, i.e. implemented in 2014 according to the documentation of the Ministry of Agriculture that I received. If the exact note I received from the finance minister is that in terms of the law governing the budget system 5% is calculated at 916 billion and 800 million tax revenues, this means that the agrarian budget should be 45 billion and 840 million. So this year if it's 27,495, as far as it's supposed to be in this position, it's only 3%. If 34.8 billion, as my colleague Obradovic told me today at the Ministry of Agriculture, this means that 11 billion farmers have been cut off, and never before has any government of these three found it appropriate that, in addition to thanking employees who have reduced salaries of 10% and pensioners who have reduced pensions to 25%, up to 40% in some years, there was a smaller agrarian budget than prescribed by law. Say thank you to the farmers once.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8268	Thank you, Mr. Cheverlitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8269	All I ask is for the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Agriculture to explain whether the incentives in agriculture are under the Encouragement Act 27,495 or 34,883?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8270	They certainly understood the question. The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8271	Thank you. We have a few questions here, a few of them seem to me to be misreading the digits. What is true, the incentives in agriculture and rural development are 27 billion and 495 million and 999, which is about 2.5 billion more than planned in the 2016 budget. I have to say that the Ministry's budget is higher by 8.11% than it was in the previous year. We have interrupted a negative trend in the reduction of funds and we have for the first time a significant increase. What I also have to tell you is that it's not just incentive funds that are contained in agriculture. We have additional expenditure on the management of agricultural land, water management, food safety, veterinary and phytosanitary policies. Also, farming supervision, so that volume of funds is much, much larger. The fact that at this point in the Ministry's budget, compared to 916 billion is 4.78%. Then you'll tell me that's where the environment should be. But I can tell you one more thing that isn't contained in the divisive side, but we are given the right if we realize projects in the area of irrigation, as regards Abu Dhabi Fund and 14 projects that will be implemented since January of the month. Through this project, we will have an additional 3.6 billion to be implemented in 2017. The Ministry's intensity, together with the Ministry of Finance, is to increase the level of funds contained within the Ministry of Agriculture and the environment. I can only tell you that the incentive funds are not the only ones that are separate for agriculture. The second question that was about farming cooperatives, yes, tomorrow is the anniversary, tomorrow they mark it in the New Sad. We have 80 new cooperatives formed under the new Cooperatives Act and in the measures contained in 2016, initiated by the Government, special benefits are prescribed if cooperatives apply for certain funds in the area of investment. This volume of funds is also foreseen for lending, at a significantly higher amount than for agricultural holdings. We will especially potentiate the story of cooperatives in 2017 and try to explain to everyone that association is, as I say, citizens' associations have one purpose, and cooperatives are forms and production groups are forms that we should potential in the future as something that creates additional value. Associations are fine, but for discussion and for imposing certain topics in the field of agriculture, but the stories of cooperatives and stories of association through that form are actually what we need as agriculture. What's a big problem for us, it's a termological definition of a cooperative. She has a great tradition, but she's been devastated since the 1990s. Some agricultural producers, when they hear about the term of cooperatives, often think of disintegration of property. You'll agree to what happened in the 1990s and after 2000. But for us, what we need, it's a teaming of people to achieve greater value by teaming up to acquire machinery, to get repromaterials so that their costs are as low as possible. It's the intensity of this government and it's the intensity of this ministry in 2017.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8272	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Miladin Shevarlic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8273	I didn't get all the answers. I agree that, in addition to this 27.5 billion position, there are other incentives for agriculture, and that is what I discussed with my colleague Obradovic from the Ministry of Agriculture today, and that is these 34.8 and nine billion, respectively, but still 11 billion, that is less than legally prescribed. If we're designing this all year long, four years earlier, it means that farmers have been cut off by a one-year agricultural budget. I'll figure it out by next session of the Agriculture Committee. It would be good if we could do a joint analysis of it. Also, remember that farmers have never been in a difficult situation. In 2015, subsidies were reduced from 100 hectares to 20 hectares or 500 per cent for plant production. In 2016, this year, from 12,000 to 4,000, or 300 percent. So, in plant production, subsidies were reduced by 15 times or 1,500 per cent. No farm in the world can stand it. I'm asking you to provide for diesel fuel subsidies with a measure of agrarian policy. We have the most expensive fuel, and we don't have diesel fuel subsidies. We're the only country in the region that doesn't have diesel fuel subsidies. Pay attention to this, otherwise count on more extensive agricultural production, and thus less yields, etc. It's not just a reduction for plant production, it's a reduction in crop insurance for those 80 hectares from 20 to 100, 40%, how much premiums, while, at the same time, increased subsidies for individual purposes in livestock production and introduced some new ones, for cows, calves. But this increase is significantly less than the reduction of subsidies in plant production. In addition, livestock production cannot be done without plant production.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8274	Thank you. The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8275	I owe you one more extra note. We can spend as much money as there is in the country and that's what's true. The truth is also that there has been an increase in the 2017 agricultural budget and these are facts, you'll agree, 8.11% we have more. Also, you will soon find laws that will provide a legal framework for incentive policy in 2017. You were talking about incentives that existed in the previous year. Of course, we will pay attention to those parts of agricultural production that have a good perspective on the market, in the medium and longer term. I must also point out that, as never before, we have the funds for investments in agriculture. It is our idea that with four times as much funding, as we will have for investments in agriculture, than it was in the 2016 budget, we will try to increase competitiveness. I'm just going to bring one absurd here. There are no fellow MPs from Koceljev. We have an absurd situation. Fruity area, rarely where so much fruit is produced as it is in the area of Koceljeva – Osecina. There is in Blace, there is in Meroshina, there is in Smederevo, there is in Frustia Gora, and I say, one of the ends that is the highest. You had one absurd - seven new tractors in five years. We will, through encouraging measures, which we will implement through sublegal acts, predict the acquisition of this type of machinery to increase the competitiveness of these people, so that these people can deal with this quality of their agricultural production. We will also have measures aimed at young farmers, so that we can sort of protect them and fertilize them with additional agricultural production. What I can tell you is that we have also one coming, I hope, a good source of income in 2017, which is IPARD's portfolio. We will do everything to make available and finally implement this funding source into Serbian agriculture for the measure of three, as regards the processing sector.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8276	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Momo Colaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8277	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable MPs, I express, at the beginning of my presentation, great satisfaction, and this is the first time since I am a National MP, that the entire government is taking part in a session of the National Assembly. In general, I support the draft budget law for 2017 and, as the president of the parliamentary group said, we will support the budget in the voting day. I'd like to say something in the shortest possible terms, and today there's been a lot of talk about reforms in pension-inhabited insurance. It is, in fact, that these reforms, in my assessment, gave the best and most effective results. I'll do something again. First of all, the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund works in the best possible way. His efficiency has increased to over 95%. Contributions, as we heard during today's debate, have been increased. Budget participation in pension payments from 48.9% fell to 36-37%, with a trend of further decline. If we continue to do so in the next period, I hope it falls below 30%, which is some European standard. The participation of disability pensions in the total number of pensioners fell from 21 to 16%. Also, participation in pension payments in the gross social product from 14% in the start of this government fell to 12.3%, with a tendency to achieve that strategic goal, which is below 11%. Because of this, we did not support the IMF's views and we did not support the views of the Fiscal Council, but of Prime Minister Vukic, that pensions are coordinated every year and that one-time assistance is granted to all pensioners, especially those who are the most vulnerable. Since time has moved away, very briefly, three suggestions. The first is – certain obligations in this sphere must be made by local self-government. For example, I will cite Novi Sad, where I particularly point out, with pleasure, that the United Pensions of Serbia Party and that social policy portfolio in the town of Novi Sad are headed by a PUPS representative. So responsible social policy, headed by the mayor of Novi Sad, Milos Vučević, realizes that pensioners and old faces feel quite different from they did in previous periods. In this respect, significant resources are also allocated for these purposes. I personally think it's very good. I can even say that they expressed their great satisfaction in supporting reform policy, that the oldest pensioners were awarded the October award of the city of Novi Sad for 2016. I therefore suggest that other local self-governments do the same. The second suggestion is – to create certain conditions in relation to, I talked to Minister Vulin about it, by creating conditions for certain spas that function, which can work independently, for old people, for old people, for pensioners, to ensure their recovery and stay in those spas. The third suggestion is to create conditions for increasing the capacity for the accommodation of old people or pensioners. In this sense, I also point out that need and place on Fruszko Gora where we have a certain space that the state would not cost much, to build a stationary for 300-350 beds, or accommodation. In that sense, I, in general, once again say that our parliamentary group will support the Budget Law for 2017. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8278	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principle and uniform search, I ask if the President or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used their right under Article 96 want the word. Rules of Procedure? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Sasa Radulovic. The time that's left for you is a minute and 10 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8279	Thank you. Finally a replica I didn't get. First, to thank the minister for confirming that an exclusive facility is being built on the Kopalnik. Partocracy is obviously growing. We're going to ask for information of public importance to get every penny, so thank you for that part and confirmation of the square that we threw out in the report. As far as the finance minister is concerned, it really wasn't right to refer to math. We can have different views, but it's not right in that way to discuss. What's important, you must know that only 40% of the total number of pensioners received a reduction. That's a 22-25-percent cut. When you give an increase of 1.25, you can't count all pensions, but only what's been taken, or these 20 billion, and 20 billion is the number that we got from the Fiscal Council. I asked the board to show that number in one place, so you didn't give it up. But when you look at your exposure, I don't think you'll be proud of it, but what we're doing is a little bit of a political struggle. In any case, I repeat, the essence, the reforms are gone, the government takes from citizens and businesses and thus tries to patch up the deficit, because it is unable to introduce...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8280	Thank you, Mr. Radulovich. Finally, the minister has the opportunity to give the final word and the final presentation. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. You have one minute and 35 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8281	Thank you, Your Honor. I was very inspired by Honorable Minister Antić with that carpet built in the bathing woods and to tell you that your presentation of the budget looks like that fairy tale that starts with that morning view of the evil queen in the mirror, which says - mirrors, mirrores, the most beautiful in the world who is? That's about what the Wolf's exposé looks like about this budget. I would really like to propose Alexander Vukic for Oscar, for the best scenario, the best male lead role and the best director of this 2017 Assembly Budget Session. Of course, you can cheat for a long time, but you can't cheat on Serbian citizens forever. You have violated all your pre-election promises, failed voters' will, we look forward to the extraordinary and republican parliamentary elections in which the SNS will receive much less votes, because it has not done anything in five years, and of course Dveri will be among those who will receive more votes, for the simple reason that Alexander Vukic in the National Assembly has received a serious opposition and the voice of the opposition is now heard much more seriously than it was before. That is why this debate on the budget is extremely valuable for Serbian democracy, because we have indicated that you serve not the interests of Serbian citizens, but the interests of the IMF.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8282	Thank you, Mr. Radovic. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or others who have not used their rights under Article 96? Rules of Procedure, does he want a word? The word has a folk emissary, Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8283	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, fellow MPs. Well, here's to wrap up today's debate with all today's topics, which were everything, not just a budget debate, because we also had stories about the management of Serbia's citizens' money, and the destruction of democracy, and the budgets that expired. However, if we go back a little bit and look back in 2008, the budgets were adopted on December 26th, then in 2009 on December 29th, and the session was interesting that this vote of the SRS budget, at half 11pm, had to drop 400 amendments in order for Serbia's budget to be adopted. So it wasn't the destruction of democracy at the time. Nor in 2010 on 21 December 2009 for the following year, nor on 29 December 2010, when two budget rebalances were adopted, and in order for the deficit to be 140 billion dinars with the projections of then-Prime Minister Cvetkovic to be at 152 billion dinars on 29 December 2011. So, then democracy was not threatened, then it was all the best order, all by law, where budget deficits and public debt were also beyond all allowed limits, but now that since 2013 the budget was adopted on December 1st, 2014, December 13, 2015, and now we will have adopted, also before 15 December, which is, of course, all by law and deadline, democracy is now collapsing, because the government is headed by Mr. Vukic and SNS, and because the results in each respect are much, much better and that Serbia's citizens should not worry about security or their salaries or their pensions. They were threatened by 2012, particularly in terms of general public finances and bankruptcy. The deficits then amounted to 104 billion dinars to a record 173.7 billion dinars. Now that the budget deficit is 69.1 billion, in record time, practically implemented economic reforms and financial consolidation, it's no good now. However, what should be said, which is that, while the SNS has passed a full set of laws over the past four years, it has managed to implement economic reforms, for these results it has received the praise of all international institutions, means not only the IMF, but also the world banks, and the practical association of all foreign investors and all international financial centres, as well as banks that finance certain credit lines, but not just countries in the region, but also the EU. Now we come into a situation to hear that all these are fairy tales, that they are all one set of good wishes, and that what the profession says, Mr Vujovic explained in detail all day, is simply not realistic. What's real? It is realistic that today the biggest exporters of Serbia have practically led to the fact that over three billion euros in trade traffic for the first 10 months of 2016, that the best exporters "Fiat", "Hestil", a company that was actually called "Gelezara" and 5,000 workers in Smederevo, were also discussed by different legal solutions here in parliament, "Tiger Tyres", "Filip Morris", "NIS", "HIP Petrochemija", that in 14 places are the same "Jura" that we talk so much in public, "Hemofarm", "Bos" and "Leon". That 15 factories were opened in 2016, both domestic and foreign, 'Bekament', 'Geoks', new drive 'British American Tabacco', 'Everest', 'Hachinston', 'Tibet fashion', 'PHC', 'Vibac', 'Teklas automotive', 'Teklas automotive', 'Dr Etker', 'Leoni' factory, 'Jura' Lescovac Continental' in Subotica, 'Delfi', 'Lir' in Novi Sad and 'Aster' textiles' in 2000. This is all the results in 2016 that say that the rate of growth is practically 2.7%, i.e. guaranteed for the first ten months, and it will come to 2.8 percentage points, that the rate of the dinar is very important, that at a low level of inflation, we are talking about that over 100 kilometers of highways have been built in Serbia at all, that more than 500 local roads have been rehabilitated, 15 bridges, 100 slides have been rehabilitated, that unemployment has been recorded, i.e. 15.2%, that more has been done in the past 30 years when we are talking about infrastructure, and that, otherwise, project loans are now in the budget, have been hidden in various reports relating to the Treasury, that the development of entrepreneurship has been developed through the opening of new small, medium-sized enterprises, practical struggle for a modern Serbia. We also have announcements today for the new openings of three chapters, next to those open, and that is chapter 5 when we talk about public procurement, and very important chapters related to science and education. Therefore, what today was the story of us neglecting education simply does not stand, but what is very good that in this budget figures say that more funding next year will be invested in agriculture, especially in this part to get used to investments in agriculture, not just primary production and giving certain subsidies per hectare. That more money is allocated to culture, that more money is allocated to the military and the police, and that, we heard about 2.5 billion dinars more in agriculture, when we talk about culture almost 1.78 billion, for an army of 4.5 billion, for the interior ministry 4 billion. When we talk about Serbia's budget, we should not forget that growth is very important to us. Why? Because growth is talking about there's economic activity and when we talked about development, and everybody here wanted to talk about how important development is, development doesn't go without growth. Your growth is practically the number of pieces of manufactured goods and services in one year, which should be bigger next year. If it's bigger, then it's growth, if it's zero, then it's stagnation, and if it hasn't reached the number that was in the previous year, it's stagnation. At the time of those who ruled until 2012, there was a decline, i.e. 3.6% less every year, which means that you ate the future of your own children. That you have practically paid all the money that Serbia's budget has paid from 4.2 billion privatisations from 2001 to 2006, so we are talking about official data, and this is a practically certain professional public that published its works in the "Finance" magazine in 2015, saying that 4.2 billion by 2006 paid into Serbia's budget has not been used at any time for infrastructure projects, but has gone completely into public consumption, which shows the complete irresponsibility of those who ruled at the time. Simply all you could use to invest in your future, you didn't do it. And then when this famous global economic crisis came, at that point, you were simply forced to raise loans at unfavourable interest rates and continue to go to raising public spending, raising wages and pensions and ultimately irresponsible policies leading the state. And as it seemed, just as every ministry had its own jury account, every public firm had its own giro account, every agency had its own giro account, didn't keep any accounts simply to those who were above their jurisdiction but eventually came here at the end of the fiscal year, so they adopted budget rebalances, so then Mr. Dulic came along and he said let's now cover it with a 1.4 billion loan and we'll iron it if we need to go through environmental protection, through agriculture, through some projects, and then we'll just put it all into public debt. That's what the Serbia budget looked like by 2012. Making such as Mr. Miskovic would like to spend without some who simply financed from privatisation. With this practice, it stopped in 2012, when it was simply seen that all the costs, all the interest of all the loans came on the charge, 750m euros from the budget each year was given to companies in restructuring, in four years it was three billion euros and plus 1.2 to 1.5 billion euros were interest. So for these four years 8 billion euros you had to serve, plus normal is why the public debt jumped. When you come into this situation that you have to solve your finances, then it's completely understandable why the savings had to come. Such savings models were proposed both to Greece, and to Portugal and to give solutions, but there were 20% wages and pension cuts, 40% were practically reduced when it came to the work on state administration and layoffs. Our model was much better. We did it before, it simply made us go bankrupt by doing something, rather than making ourselves a plan to restructure the economy, economic reforms. We made our own funding plan practically Serbia's budget and called the IMF and said, "We're ready for you to oversee this plan." Those who speak of the need to have fiscal consolidation measures in Serbia, which the Assembly is due to adopt, have not seen that the Ministry of Finance has in the most responsible way brought many acts, in particular a financial strategy relating to the consolidation of public finances from 2018 to 2020, a programme of economic reforms from 2018 to 2020 and a programme of public finance management reforms that also addressed to the Committee on Budget and Finance. Therefore, all those who say that the budget at this point did not enter the legal way to argue, simply want to ignore the fact that they are just used to adopting the last day's budgets, practically in the current year. When we talk about Serbia's final budget account, you need to be realistic and say by 2002 no government has brought a final bill. When we talk about the final account, we first have to end this fiscal year in order to do the final bill, and the second revision has to pass its act on the basis of international standards that need to be brought into line naturally with the Ministry of Finance, and then we really look at the final accounts of the budget after that. That's never happened before. And all those who talk have so many ideas about how to do something have never done it, but they simply borrowed and brought budgets with 127 MPs in this assembly up to 128, simply putting their political interests into office as such and not taking care of the citizens of Serbia. Therefore, today's final degree of hypocrisy has been given the opportunity to hear from individual parliamentary groups here who have had their own exposure. What is important to say is that when we talk about whether we really want better for this Serbia, then we should say that at the Finance Committee, the minister said that there is a solution to the problems that really require a certain consensus. And that consensus should be sought in the parties that have been talking about the budget all day today. The topics we need to discuss together are in addition to public enterprises reform and public administration reform, to talk about firms that are in restructuring because we inherited them as they inherited them. However, they inherited them in a much better position when they were in moments of financial growth, not in moments of bankruptcy. But what is interesting to say is that in his report, the Fiscal Council for the first time praised and said that the growing debt spiral had practically turned its course. Those who are the greatest critics, because they only look at numbers, because they simply don't look at real life, because these figures represent jobs of classical conservative economies for the first time now say something more interesting, that Elektroprivreda and Serbiaagas, for the first time now they don't have any loans for current liquidity, but also say that you should give out of the budget and help certain firms in restructuring like Bor, like Resavica, not to get into a situation like before to simply make big debts, to push debts under the carpet, and then to come back into the situation that we have to re-activate certain guarantees and actually increase public debt. So that's what the fiscal council says. It wasn't a proposal or a ministry. Why do they say that? Because they've had more serious experience than before. Because they have been saying since 2007, that wages and pensions should be reduced, or should not be increased at that speed linearly, rather than modelling that everyone equally bear the burden of the global economic crisis. This was a very serious debate on the Committee on Finance, and I think it just entered the domain of the profession and everyone who wanted to hear heard what they were supposed to do, and that's especially when the story of Bor and when the story of Resavica is, the story of energy policy that we need here in the Assembly to open up the issue of coal financing, and the questions of 4,000 workers in Resavica, who today pay a billion and a half dinar for taxes and contributions. So, from the former practical debt, everything goes normally from the production itself, which is currently inefficient and uneconomically profitable. So Resavica is one big problem of our country, but also one big political issue because we should even open the energy issue here in parliament, given that environmental standards somewhere make us respect and have big investments in mines. On the other hand, those who want international big investors to enter with investments for renewable energy sources are looking for budget guarantees, and at this point Serbia is not able to do so, not only Serbia, but many countries in the Western Balkan region. It's something we need to talk about. So here we had guests from the Bundestag of the European Parliament and we talked in general about green energy policy. But that green energy is expensive at this point for models that exist in developed European countries. That is why Serbia needs to find its energy mix and it has it for the given political circumstances at the moment, but that is what is an unchangeable category and that is why we need to talk about it in the future. Heterogen subsidy and old debts are another topic that Minister Vujovic has launched on the committee to discuss. Heterogenic subsidies something that we used to give simply certain subsidies to agriculture per hectare and give to people, to farmers, who are indeed now perhaps in years and who cannot process agricultural land. We come into the realm practically that certain subsidies represent the social category, social subsidies. And then that's what they should be called. They should not be called simply certain subsidies for agriculture, because they do not contribute to development. That was why it was important to hear on the board what we needed to talk about in the future. I would just like to mention one more thing where we haven't forgotten, which is that the Serbian Progressive Party with MPs from the Women's Parliamentary Network is discussing amendments to gender-responsible budgeting. To thank indeed the minister, who heard last year about the six amendments, but did not sit with his hands cut, his ministry organised workshops across all institutions that were to determine indicators, practically for the birth-responsible budgeting of 28 institutions. They've sent their reports and, of course, we haven't stopped at it, there will be two other amendments that apply to women in the field of science. This is why, indeed, Minister Vujovic, we need somewhere to tell everyone in the public that you have recognised the practical need for this kind of amendment and this entire one area to be raised to an entirely higher level than in the government by 2012.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8284	Thank you, Mrs. Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8285	Thank you. In voting day, the SNS will support this set of laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8286	Thank you. The word has a minister, Alexander Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8287	Thank you. I'll be very brief. First of all, and because of this high house and because of the public and the comments we heard just before Mrs Tomic, or two discussions before Mrs Tomic, I think that I am clear in one, hopefully, very argumentable exhibition showed that the property of the company of the Elektro Network of Serbia is reconstructed and built on Kopalnik for the needs of employees not for management, primarily as a consequence of the company's obligation to provide employees with prevention of work disability, recreation and rehabilitation, in order to protect health and improve the ability of employees, taking into account the fact that of 1,340 employees, 593 employees are working under extremely difficult circumstances. People, these are really working conditions on the most difficult times, very dangerous jobs. In accordance with the law, a collective contract has an obligation to provide one level of support for these people, and I really think it's very bad that we're dragging one of these activities through the dust here. Also, I have proven that this facility is 77% higher per area than what was brought forward during the debate and that the costs of its construction are 15% lower than that of the debate and that the project was fully done in accordance with the eligibility studies that proved the viability of the object that had passed the DRI. I hope that it is clear to the MPs, as I do not understand it, and I hope that my colleague Obradovic will not be angry that I will make a little joke, I do not understand what inspired you on that bathing stand. (Bosko Obradović, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8288	You have no basis for replication. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8289	Thank you very much. We're trying to get to the point where we can say that the debate is in principle over. Let me just have a few comments for the end. First, in terms of the numbers mentioned earlier in the discussion, in one thing we agree, the pension reduction in the first year was 5.8% times the total pension fund, which was 20 billion and that was the reduction in the first year. We disagree on everything else. So, in the second year, i.e. In 2016, there was an increase in pensions of 1.25%, amounting to 6.25 billion. So that's an increase in that amount by 6.5 billion. There was a one-time payment in 2016 of 5,000 dinars per pensioner, which is 8.5 billion, and there was a payment of pensions to military pensioners 10 billion in 2016, which basically means that more was paid in 2016 than before. So 24.75 billion instead of 20. So that's an increase of 4 billion. In the third year, i.e. In this next one we're planning, the effect is going to be minus 20 plus 6.25 from the first increase, plus 7.50 from the second increase, and when it's all added up, in three years, the reduction is 21.5 billion, and that's 7 billion a year. It's a reduction that's less than the first reduction. Therefore, we expect that by increasing in 2017, all this will be returned. Of course, pensions depend largely on contributions, additional transfers paid by Serbian citizens to the pension fund. These transfers were around 256 billion in 2014, so they went down to 230 billion, and this year there are 220 billion, while next year we expect 201 billion, primarily due to better payment of pension insurance contributions, which Minister Vulin was already talking about. We hope that this will be the case in the future, but we do not accept the qualification that anyone is damaged for anything, since the budget contributes 20.10 to 15 times more to the pension fund than there was an initial reduction that was necessary for reforms to begin. Also, the quota part of the burden was borne by all public sector employees by a 10% reduction, which is largely compensated in sectors with lowest wages and the most difficult jobs in the state of Serbia. So that's my answer to the comments about the state taking something away from someone, stealing, moving away, etc. It is not there, this is a joint job, in which the whole public sector participates in the redistribution of the funds given by Serbian citizens. So, Serbian citizens pay all these taxes, Serbia's citizens pay money for the budget, and it is our duty to effectively manage and redistribute those funds for the best purposes, to provide social services, to provide education, to support culture, to support everything the state has to do, and, among other things, to support the security of the population and to create infrastructure and preconditions for future economic growth and development. I'm glad the discussion showed what the basic remarks were. I wish we'd started the budget cycle in time this year. In the coming years, we will certainly do so in time and give everyone the opportunity to participate actively in everything. We asked for some things to be resolved by consensus and we'll do it again at the beginning of next year. I am grateful to the MPs for a whole series of useful proposals, and I hope they will be specified by the amendments we will consider after 24 hours, so on Thursday and Friday. I hope that we will have the opportunity to improve these amendments the text of the 2017 draft budget and the accompanying laws, i.e. accompanying documents. Thank you for participating in this long debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-06-0.u8290	Thank you. According to Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint general and uniform search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 1-7 of the agenda. I thank the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We continue our work on Thursday, December 8, at 10:00 p.m. [[The session was suspended at 22.15 hours]]
