ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49158	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 86 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 125 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the next MPs: Konstantin Arsenović and Dr Milorad Mijatovic. We continue to work and move on to a joint principled and unique search on the proposals of acts from point. From the 7th to the 23rd agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they have been invited to attend today's session: Nikola Selakovic, Justice Minister, Miroljub Tomic, election member of the Supreme Council of the Judges, Zorica Stojsic and Majda Rakic, election members of the State Council of Prosecutors, Zoran Djordjevic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence, Cedomir Backović, Nela Kuburović and Zoran Balinovac, Assistant Minister of Justice Jovan Ćosic, Head of the Department of Justice and Captain of the Warship Milan Konjikovic, Head of International Military Co-operation at the Ministry of Defence. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. Pursuant to Article 157(2) of Article 170(1) and Article 1(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1305/2013, 201 and 202. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a joint principled and uniform search on: Proposal for a Law on the Elimination of Assets of the Victims of the Holocaust, which do not have living legal successors, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Violations, the Proposal for a Law on Amendment of the Law of the Court of Justice, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Organisation for Co-operation in the field of defence, the Proposal for a decision on the termination of the role of the Public Prosecutors, the Proposal for a decision of the Court of Justice of First Instance of the Court of Justice, the Court of First Instance, the Court of Justice of Justice, the Court of Justice of the Court of First Instance, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice of Justice of the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of Justice of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice of Justice of Justice of Justice of Justice of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of Justice of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Do any of the representatives of the motionors, Justice Minister Nikola Selakovic or Miroljub Tomic, election member of the High Council of Judges? The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49159	Thank you. Dear Presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the beginning of the debate in principle allow me to give you a few introductory notes regarding the draft law on the removal of property from the victims of the Holocaust, which do not have living legal heirs, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Infringements and the amendment of the Law on Amendments to the Law of Courts. The passing of laws governing the removal of the consequences of the confiscation of property to Holocaust victims in the territory of the Republic of Serbia who do not have living legal heirs is rounding the legislative framework in the area of return of the seized property. The process of restitution of property in the Republic of Serbia was initiated by the adoption of the Return Act, i.e. the restitution of property to churches and religious communities, which has been applied since 1 October 2006. The legislative framework in the area of property restitution was then completed by the adoption of the return law of the seized property and compensation, which has been in force since 6 October 2011 and which regulates the conditions, the way and procedure for the return of the seized property and the compensation for the seized property, which has been withdrawn from natural and certain legal persons in the territory of the Republic of Serbia by applying rules on agrarian reform, nationalisation, sequestration, as well as other provisions on the basis of the laws on land use, since 9 March 1945, and transferred to general national, state, social or cooperative property. The adoption of a law governing the removal of property from the victims of the Holocaust and other victims of fascism in the territory of the Republic of Serbia is foreseen by the national programme for the adoption of EU legal fluids in the period from 2014 to 2018 and in accordance with the annual work plan of the Government for 2016. The Republic of Serbia is a signator of the Teresa Declaration of Property adopted in 2009, in Terezin, the Czech Republic, in a place where they were killed and where they were sent to camps of the death of 1,000 European Jews and other victims of Nazi persecution during World War II. In a place that is of special importance to us Serbs, given that in Terezin he ended his young life as well as Gabriel Princip. The declaration was declared by representatives of 49 states and the EU, and it calls and obliges all signatories to return property seized by Holocaust victims during World War II. Serbia signed this Declaration in 2012. However, in addition to everything that constitutes a legal basis for the adoption of such a law, there is something that can be called a moral obligation that strengthens the anti-fascist circle and the anti-fascist identity of our people and our state, some kind of commitment to our countrymen, members of the Jewish people, who devoted their lives and actions to our Serbia. There is no more significant book, at least in the legal area, legal literature, without being betrayed by one Geca Con. He published works by Slobodan Jovanovic, Lazar Markovic, Crnjanski, Nusic. He published the first number of archives for legal and social sciences in 1906. Due to the "wartnik" calendar, which has been extolling the Serbian army's victories over Austro-Hungarian, Geca Kon was interned in the Nejider camp in Hungary in 1916, where he spent three years of slavery. Witnesses of Gece Kon's legacy or will, which died because he did not want to leave Serbia, were two large Serbian intellectuals Slobodan Jovanovic and Milutin Milankovic. Our probably most beautiful patriotic song "Serbia" was written by Oscar Davicho. Stanislav Vinaver was one of the 1300 corporals. The way Enrico Josif, composer and academic spoke about the Serbian issue, holds the throne even today for those who listen to him. A writer of the "Keep the Serbs", Archibald Rice, of Jewish origin, died in Belgrade, was buried in Topcider Park, and his heart was taken to the top of the Kaimakalan into the skeleton of Serb warriors and his war buddies. Mosha Pijada, who pleaded as a Serb of Moses' faith, dared to seek autonomy for Serbs in Croatia only after World War II. All that says enough about the relationship between Serbs and Jews. Serbs are Jews and Jews have always seen Serbs as great friends, almost countrymen. Without the breadth of the Serbian spirit and our sometimes naive universalist feelings and warmth, it is hard for Jews to do anything big in Serbia and for Serbs. That's why scientific, cultural and every other Jewish contribution speaks of them at one time, as well as of us. The Jews had a noble sense of response to the generosity of Serbs, and the Serbs refused throughout history to see a reluctant speciality in the Jews. Even a controversial character of our history, Dimitrij Ljotic, in 1940, regretting that such a relationship between Serbs towards Jews, said in one text that the directors of secondary schools and teachers at the university refuse to apply government regulations to which Jews are discriminated, with the view that the government itself is practically not behind its measures. The 2011 Law on the Abuse of Assets and Compensation specifically provides for the law to be applied to the return of property, which is the consequence of the Holocaust on the territory of today's Serbia. The same law stipulates that the removal of property from the victims of the Holocaust and other victims of fascism in the territory of the Republic of Serbia that do not have living legal heirs will be governed by a special law. The importance of restitution of the joint and individual immovable property belonging to the victims of the Holocaust justifies any effort to correct the consequences of the unfair confiscation of property carried out through confiscation, forced sale of property and sale under duress, which was part of the persecution of these innocent people and groups, most of which died without an heir. In the resolution of this complex issue, as well as the return of property and compensation, which are subject to the Law on the return of seized property and compensation, it was necessary to achieve a balanced approach that takes into account the need to remove the consequences of the confiscation of property to the victims of the Holocaust who do not have living legal heirs, the owner of whose property, after the Second World War, passed into the state, or social property, and the public interest that the return process is integrated into the process of developing the national economy and objective economic and financial power of society. In a comprehensive manner, the law regulates the issue of eliminating the consequences of confiscation of property to Holocaust victims who do not have living legal heirs. The law regulates the terms, manner and procedure of the return of property taken from members of the Jewish community who do not have legal heirs and the return of the seized property of the organizations that were in office of the Jewish community at the time of the confiscation, which was taken from the territory of the Republic of Serbia at the time of the Holocaust or on the basis of the regulations laid down in Article 2. The law on the return of seized property and compensation, as well as the financial support of the Republic of Serbia to the Jewish community in Serbia. This property was seized during the Holocaust, but even after this period, the consequences of the confiscation of property based on regulations, laws and sublaws, based on which legal and political measures were implemented, on which things in private property passed to state or social property. By implementing these measures from private property, certain agricultural land, forests and forest land, building land, as well as businesses, apartments and housing. Removing the consequences of the confiscation of property to Holocaust victims will contribute to greater understanding of human rights, which is essential for combating and preventing all forms of racial, religious and ethnic discrimination. The law will continue to identify and privatise state assets and contribute to the creation of full legal certainty as preconditions for providing direct long-term foreign investment. The return of property within the meaning of this law removes any uncertainty regarding the further legal fate of the seized property. When proposing the provisions of the law, it was also in the light of the Terezin Declaration, in which the signatories found, among other things, that the survivors of the Holocaust and the other victims of Nazi persecution in the advanced age of life, had special needs in the field of health care and that the participating countries in confirming this Declaration supported as one of the priorities of the effort to address social welfare needs for the most vulnerable elderly victims and that it was of imperative importance to respect their personal dignity and to take care of their needs in the area of social well-being as a matter of utmost importance. The need to preserve memory for the benefit of future generations and never forget the unique history and heritage of the Holocaust during which three quarters of European Judaism were destroyed, also, that the survivors of the Holocaust and other victims of Nazi persecution, including those who experienced the horrors of the Holocaust as small and helpless children during their persecution suffered a physical and emotional trauma without precedent. It has been found that in some countries assets without heirs could be used as a basis for addressing the material needs of vulnerable persons who survived the Holocaust, as well as for permanent education on the Holocaust, its causes and consequences, confirming the importance of education on the Holocaust and other Nazi crimes as lessons of essential importance for humanity. The declaration strongly encourages all countries to support or establish a regular annual memory ceremony or memorial ceremony and to work on preserving memorial sites and other memory sites of victims, as well as that countries can consider different additional means of supporting education and human rights, with confidence that international law in the field of human rights reflects the essential lessons of history. During the period from 27 November to 18 December 2015, a public debate was held on the draft of this law in which the participation was taken by representatives of state authorities and organisations of Jewish municipalities, the Union of Jewish municipalities, representatives of the World Jewish Organisation for Restitution, representatives of several embassies and other interested persons to obtain public opinion through remarks, proposals and suggestions to improve the text of the Bill. In accordance with the results of the public debate, the provisions governing the return of assets in a natural form are based on the provisions of the applicable Return Act of the seized property and the compensation under the similar application of the law governing the general administrative procedure. The adoption of this provision of the Return Act will ensure the uniform application of restitution rules to all rightholders, thus ensuring legal certainty and stability. The law specifically defines the notion of holocausts within the meaning of the law, and at the same time it is particularly normised to interpret the terms used in this law exclusively as expressions of compassion, solidarity and understanding of the Republic of Serbia for the death of the Jewish people on their territory during an enemy occupation from 6 April 1941 to 9 May 1945. The law provides for a form and total amount of financial support from the Republic of Serbia. The procedure for the return of the party's assets in the proceedings has been arranged, the body conducting the proceedings, the applicant shall request, submit and contain the requests, the time limit for the adoption of the solution, the remedies and the execution of the solution. The activities aimed at revenue made through the law are listed, and the creation of a management programme and a report on the management of the revenues of the Association of Jewish Municipalitys of Serbia and the Jewish municipalities is prescribed. The monitoring and monitoring of revenue management carried out through the Supervisory Committee is foreseen and the composition of this Committee and its work is envisaged, and the obligation of the Union of Jewish municipalities to maintain a permanent and up-to-date, public records available to both former owners and returned assets and revenues achieved through the application of this law, which is one of the important mechanisms for achieving the objective of the law. I would add that by passing one of these laws, the Republic of Serbia, its Government and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia make it clear what is the position of the whole state and people towards certain meek, dark and ugly events in our past, especially during the time of enemy occupation and especially as a result of the operation of the Quinsec regime on the territory of the current central Serbia and Banat. You also have before you a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Infringements. The new Law on Infringements Reformed Law has started to apply since 1 March 2014. The institutes introduced by this law, such as the Institute of Violent Orders, which are issued by authorised law enforcement authorities, for which a fine is provided for in a fixed amount, as well as the unique registers of criminal sanctions and non-paid fines, as the need for the management of a payment control system not sufficiently present, as well as a number of other institutes, has shown significant results during the current application of the law for a relatively short period of time. According to data from the Criminal Court of Appeal, for example, mainly by the Traffic Police, since the application of the Violation Act, a total of 1.123.64 violations have been issued, with only 1.48% or 16.625 of them being contested on the basis of requests for judicial ruling. The number of voluntary fines paid from violations is very large, 835,245 fines and makes up a high 75% of voluntary penalties, which is a significant improvement compared to 20% of voluntary penalties imposed on court sentences. A total of 16.7m euros were voluntarily paid on the basis of orders issued. After almost two years of application of the law, and based on statistics, authorised applicants are required to initiate the infringement procedure, in particular the Traffic Police and the Communist Police, as well as infringing courts, the need for a smaller number of provisions of the applicable law to be amended or complemented in measuring the transitional time of application of the law and the test of its quality has been established. Where it is taken into account that penalties under the infringements issued have been paid as soon as possible, without the conduct of the proceedings, with minimum costs in connection with the issuing of infringements, with the benefits of offenders, the payment of a lower amount of sentence imposed with the purpose of punishment, all indicators shall contribute to the extension of the application of the infringement order to a larger number of infringements. Unwarranted restrictions should be abolished for the conclusion of an agreement on the recognition of infringements. The traffic police first began to apply the institute to a greater extent, but the trend was slowed down due to different practices regarding the adoption of an agreement which sets out a safeguard measure to a lesser extent or not. There is a need to simplify the procedure for the conclusion of the agreement and to specify those provisions in order to avoid different interpretations. The limits to which it should be pointed are, as a problem in practice, examples of violations where the range of fines is foreseen in other regulations from 800,000 to millions of dinars or from 100,000 to 120,000 dinars. From the point of view of the conclusion of the agreement, it's extremely irrational and impervious. It is necessary to address the problem of limiting the possibility of communicating the defendants and applicants with respect to the extent of the threatened safeguards. This is logical if I am a state authority, responsible for overseeing the implementation of a material law which provides for a violation and a certain sanction to be agreed with the accused, considers that the more effective and effective enforcement of the law in question is more appropriate for those accused in exchange for the recognition of criminal liability to offer the possibility of giving a safeguard measure in a shorter period than prescribed or that the prescribed safeguard measure is not imposed at all. This creates an opportunity to continue the initial trend in the rapid growth of the number of agreements, in connection with road safety violations, in the first year of implementation, when the Traffic Police concluded around 11,000 agreements. Almost all of these agreements have been concluded in connection with the execution of offences for which a one-month safeguard measure is provided for in addition to fines. This is particularly important for a total reduction in the number of cases in criminal courts, as more than half of the cases were initiated due to violations of the traffic safety law on the roads. This will open up the possibility of a wider application of this institute in other areas as well. It's just enough to mention the start of applying the new Inspectorate Control Act. In this way, as well as extending the application of a criminal order, it will contribute to the dispensation of criminal courts. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let me remind you of certain legal solutions passed by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Violents. The new provisions of Article 39 are significant. The law, in so far as it provides for an increase in the maximum amount of fixed penalties to be prescribed, without changing the penalty maximum. The proposed amendment which regulates that the decisions of the assembly of the AP, the assembly of the municipality or the assembly of the city may provide for fines only in a fixed amount which cannot exceed half the maximum amount prescribed for the fixed penalties referred to in Article 2 of this Article. In addition to creating a framework for more uniform regulation at the level of local self-government, wider application of the infringement order is ensured as a significantly more economical and efficient means of processing offences than the court proceedings. It is provided for a period of one year from the entry into force of this law to comply with the rules on infringements which do not comply with this law. The second-degree court's obligation to rule, confirm or amend a first-degree decision shall be provided that, in the same case, the first-degree decision has already been abolished. The restriction of the resuscitation, i.e. the obligation of the court to withdraw the first-degree verdict for the purpose of appeal, and to return the case to the first-degree court, is foreseen for the effectiveness of the conduct of the infringement procedure. The possibility of issuing an infringement order in electronic form and the delivery provisions have been completed in order to allow for the practical application of an infringement order made in electronic form, and that is when the person deemed to have committed an offence is to be served in electronic form at the time of the detection of the offence. It shall be arranged to issue a general order for the bringing, in order to allow the defendant found on the run or apparently avoids being brought in, to be issued by an infringing court by a general order to be delivered to the police authorities for the purpose of calling for a search. This should lead to the effective finding and introduction of multiple perpetrators of criminal offences, since the avoidance of reception calls leads to an obsolescence of the conduct of a misdemeanor procedure. The proposed provisions concerning an agreement on the recognition of an infringement are aimed at extending the application of the Agreement on the recognition of infringements or leaving a wider space for the communication of the accused and the applicant of the request for a level of punishment. It is proposed to remove restrictions on the possibility of agreeing the defendants and applicants with respect to the extent of the threatened safeguards. For the purpose of efficiency and rationality, it is proposed to delete the provisions on the maintenance of the hearing and to simplify the procedure itself to decide on the agreement. The consequences of enrolment in the register of fines shall be specified. As more than half of the traffic security violations were committed, the application of the consequences was considered best achieved by issuing traffic documents to achieve the purpose of this provision, i.e. to improve the efficiency of payment of fines. It is specified under which conditions it is possible to provide for some other regulation and temporary denial of the issue or extension of the importance of other permits and documents, and that it cannot be denied the issue or extension of the importance of permits and documents which would endanger the achievement of the Constitution of guaranteed human and minority rights, human health and safety, environment or property of a larger scale. As regards the draft law amending the Courts' Law, I point out the following. The transitional provisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Regulation of Courts, of November 2013, set a deadline for the taking over of certain responsibilities of the Ministry of Justice by the High Council of the judiciary. This is about taking over competences relating to the adoption of the criteria for the determination of the number of staff in courts, the competence to carry out certain judicial affairs, and the authority to adopt and supervise the application of the Rules of Procedure. Also, those transitional provisions set a deadline for the termination of the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice, which concerns the proposal, the implementation of the budget necessary for the work of the courts and the supervision of the spending of those funds. In addition, a deadline has been set for taking over the archive, as well as employees at the Justice Ministry, who are now performing the tasks that are being taken over. In view of the fact that the Law found that these transactions were taken over from 1 June 2016, the High Council of the Court of Justice addressed the initiative of the Ministry of Justice, on 21 January 2016, to propose amendments to the Law on the Regulation of the Courts, which would move the deadline for taking over the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice, by the High Council of the Court on 1 January 2017. In the light of this initiative, the High Judicial Council states that since 1 January of this year, courts have been introduced into a system of implementation of the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and that the 2016 Budget Law has been approved, has been allocated at an annual level, so that the taking over of jurisdiction in the affairs of the judicial administration, particularly when it comes to carrying out material and financial affairs, should be postponed until 1 January 2017, as taking over these responsibilities in half of the fiscal year, would affect the implementation of the budget and the annual report on the implementation of the budget by the courts. The Ministry of Justice accepted the reasons set out in that initiative of the High Council of Justice and proposed to the Government the establishment of a draft law amending the Law on the Regulation of Courts, which extends the time limit for the taking over of the jurisdiction of certain members of the law by seven months. by 1 January 2017, in order to obtain all legal material and technical personal conditions for the exercise of new competences by the High Council. Let me give you a few words when it comes to the two agreements in front of you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, by joining the Partnership for Peace Programme, the Republic of Serbia has shown its commitment to improving co-operation and working together with the Member States of the North Atlantic Treaty and other partner countries in building a global, regional, national security, with the expression of readiness to take part in the responsibility for a stable and lasting peace in the region, participates in multinational operations and achieves interoperability of the armed forces with the forces of the Member States of this organisation and partner countries. In this respect, the need to establish co-operation with the Organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty and to support and obtain, thus increasing the efficiency of logistics support and also reducing the costs of engagement in multinational operations and achieving interoperability of the armed forces with the forces of the Member States of the Organisation and of the partner countries, has been recognised. Also, a contractual relationship with this organisation would provide a legal basis for the implementation of the NATO Trust Fund for the deboration and destruction of surplus killing funds and the improvement of the capacity of the Kragujevac Technical and Remont Institute, which also envisions the destruction of about 4,000 tonnes of killing funds. I note that providing logistics support services by that organisation would be of great importance to establish effective logistics support at the level of the Republic of Serbia. With this in mind, you have before you the proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the organisation for supporting and obtaining co-operation in the field of logistics support signed in Capelen on 7 September 2015 and in Belgrade on 14 September 2015. That law or agreement is fully in line with the Law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts and the Vienna Treaty on Contract Law, as well as with all other relevant regulations of the Republic of Serbia. Dear ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, having regard to the above, and in particular to the benefit of the Republic of Serbia, which is achieved both by the agreement signed and by all other agreements resulting from the application of the contract in question, I propose that the National Assembly in the day of the vote support the Law on the approval of this agreement. You are also facing a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is represented by the Ministry of Defence and the Government of the Republic of Myanmar, which is represented by the Ministry of Defence, on co-operation in the area of defence, signed in Belgrade on 11 May 2015. The entry into force of that agreement creates a legal basis for the co-operation of defence ministries as well as other forms of co-operation in the area of defence for which the parties are interested. The Agreement contains areas and forms of co-operation, provides for the possibility of developing co-operation in areas of common interest through the conclusion of specific contracts, and in accordance with the agreement in question, the provisions on the protection of classified information and the costs incurred during its implementation, medical protection and disciplinary responsibility. The agreement provides for ways to address possible disputes, changes and additions, how it enters into force, period of validity and cancellation. The agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Myanmar on co-operation in the field of defence, whose validation is proposed by this law, sets out the basic objectives and principles on which co-operation in the area of defence between the governments of Serbia and the Myanmar Union, i.e. their competent authorities, and to contribute to the development of the two countries' overall bilateral relations, as well as peace and security in the world. Finally, I would like to thank you for your attention and express my hope that after the debate in principle and in particular the proposed laws will be adopted in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49160	I thank you, Mr. Minister. Now I would like to give my word to Mr. Miroljub Tomic, election member of the High Council of Justice. Sign in, Mr. Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49161	Thank you. First of all, I would like to welcome the Presidential Assembly and the People's MPs in front of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. We are here today to explain and put forward proposals from the High Council of the judiciary relating to several points of the agenda, so I will try to be as brief as possible in my presentation as possible on the one hand, and on the other hand to present all the facts that I consider important, both for you MPs who will decide on these proposals and for the citizens who may be following this television broadcast. One of the points of the agenda is the motion for a decision to resolve the role of President of the Basic Court in Valjevo, Ljiljan Karic. Consistent with the provisions of Article 13. The Law on the High Council of the Judiciary, the Council, as we know, proposes to the National Assembly the choice and resolution of the President of the Court. So far, we have met mostly in this House when it comes to proposing candidates for judicial functions, namely the election of the President of the Court of Justice, and this time it is a motion to resolve from the position of President of the Basic Court in Valjevo. At a session held on 21 October 2015, the High Judicial Council decided to adopt a proposal by the Minister of Justice of 3 June 2015 to initiate a procedure for establishing the grounds for the resolution of the President of the Court of Justice in Valjevo, Ljiljana Karic, for violating the obligations established by the rules for the conduct of the affairs of the judicial administration within the meaning of Article 52(1). The Law on Court Orders and proposed that this National Assembly be dismissed from the office of President of the Basic Court in Valjevo, Ljiljan Karic, who was otherwise elected by the National Assembly in May 2015 to the office of President of the Basic Court in Valjevo, where he is now in office. More concrete reasons and an explanation of the decision of the High Council of the judiciary are in favour of the motion for resolution submitted to the National Assembly, but I will only mention a few things concerning this proposal, and according to the finding of the High Council of the Court of Justice, the President of the Court of Justice in Valjevo has violated the obligations in the conduct of the affairs of the judicial administration, which has contributed to the illegal treatment and which is being examined in the following. First of all, the fact that in 7,909 cases, which were received at the basic court in Valjevo before 1 June 2012, a solution was reached which the court declared to be really incompetent and determined that the cases would be delivered to the perpetrators for treatment. Then, by the fact that a total of 12,115 cases were brought, contrary to the law on enforcement and security, a solution to the court's real incompetence. In any of the 12.115 cases, then, the executive creditors are not self-initiative, within the meaning of Article 70(1). The law on enforcement and security, the court proposed that enforcement be carried out by the perpetrators, and that in most of the 12,115 cases no proposal was submitted for enforcement by the perpetrator. Also, the fact that the delivery to the executors of the case was carried out outside the provisions of the law on enforcement and the Law on litigation. Especially due to the fact that 6,953 cases have not been handled, nor have the only action taken for more than six months. The High Council of the Court finds that in such an unlawful act, the President of the Basic Court in Valjevo has contributed, and this is by violating obligations in the conduct of the affairs of the judicial administration, primarily by failing to ensure the proper and legal functioning of the court, which is directly contrary to the provisions of Article 52. The law on the regulation of courts, then the conduct of affairs contrary to the provisions of Article 51. Laws governing courts and provisions of Articles 6 and 7. The Registrar of the Court, and not the conduct of the cases of the judicial administration prescribed by the provisions of Article 6. The Registrar, by failing to determine that in 6,953 cases, which are located in the court office, were not expeditated or handed over further jurisdiction and conduct. Therefore, the President of the General Court in Valjev acted contrary to its obligations as President of the Court and thus all the elements prescribed by Article 75(1) were obtained. The Law on Judges, in the light of the breach of obligations in the conduct of cases of the judicial administration, determines the existence of a reason for the initiation of the procedure for discharge from the office of the President of the Court of Justice. The failures of the affairs of the judicial administration, i.e. the conduct of the affairs of the judicial administration against the legal powers, have led to the illegal work of the Court of Justice in Valjevo, which is described in advance by the President of the Court of Justice in Valjevo directly responsible, but due to the established illegality of the damages suffered by the parties to the proceedings, and the breach of trust and reputation of the court has also been violated. All of these are the reasons why the VSS established the existence of reasons for launching the discharge procedure from the office of the President of the Basic Court in Valjevo, and in this connection we also submitted a proposal to this Parliament to resolve the President of the Basic Court in Valjevo, Ljiljan Karic. So, so often, when we proposed in this Assembly, we pointed out that the work of the VSS is to highlight, apostrophe and propose the best candidates, whether for the functions of the judges, or for the president of the courts, but also important, I think, and ultimately, it is the obligation and role of the VSS, to act on certain initiatives and proposals for this Assembly to deliver and proposals for the resolution of certain holders of judicial functions when it finds that there are legal reasons for us to choose on the one hand those who are the best and the best and the best of quality, and to resolve those who are unable to respond to the complexity and challenges of these significant judicial functions or functions of the President of the Court and to finally help us to make justice more efficient and efficient. The next VSS proposal refers to the selection of VSS members from the line of judges. As we know, the VSS as the highest judicial body has 11 members, six of whom are judges with permanent judicial office, who usually have a term of office of five years. Given that five VSS members from the line of judges finishes the five-year term in early April of this year, the VSS carried out a procedure to propose candidates for the election of five VSS members from the line of judges. The procedure was otherwise initiated by decision of the VSS of 5 October 2015, therefore, six months before the end of the term of office of the current members of the Council. The judges' candidates were elected from the following courts: one candidate from the Supreme Casualty Court, a commercial appeals and administrative court, one candidate from senior and commercial courts, two candidates from the primary courts, criminal courts and a misappellate court, and one candidate from courts from the territory of autonomous provinces. The vote for VSS election members was held on 21 December 2015 at 49 polling stations. A total of 2,460 voters were enrolled in the list of judges. On 23 December 2015, after the number of ballots and the expiry of the deadline for submission of the complaint, the VSS Election Commission submitted a report on the final results of the vote and the accompanying statistics. 98 judges voted on the candidate list for the Supreme Cassation, Business Appeal and Administrative Court, out of 102 registered voters. You see for yourself, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that the turnout when it comes to the election of judges for members of the High Council of the judiciary was in this case, for example, extremely high. The turnout was 96.08%. In this runoff list, the highest number of votes, a total of 49 votes, won Branislav Goravica, judge of the Court of Commerce. The list for more and business courts, out of 495 judges, was voted by 458 judges, turnout also high – 92.53%. Of the eight candidates, the largest number of votes, a total of 118 votes, was won by Ivan Jovicic, the Supreme Court judge in Belgrade. On the list for the basic courts and the Criminal Court of Appeal, of 1,812 registered voters, the 1,468 judges voted, turnout – 81%. Of the 17 candidates, the largest number of votes, a total of 178, were given to Slavica Milosevic Gazivoda, the court judge in Belgrade and 161 votes to Matija Radojicic, Judge of the Third Basic Court in Belgrade. The list of courts from the territory of autonomous provinces, of 645 registered voters, was voted by 533 judges. Of the five candidates, the largest number of votes was won by Savo Djurdzic, judge of the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad. On 24 December, the High Council of the Court of Justice sent a proposal to the National Assembly for candidates for election members of the High Council of Judges, in accordance with the provisions of Article 20(3) and Article 35(1). The law on the Supreme Council of the judiciary, which provides that the Council proposes one candidate with the largest number of votes on each list, based on a record on the determination of the election results delivered by the electoral commission. Otherwise, the members of the Council were selected by the proposed Branislav Goravica, who graduated from the Faculty of Law in Belgrade with an average rating of 9.66, passed the judicial exam in June 1985 with a special distinction, the judge of the Chamber of Commerce in Belgrade, starting in 1992 to 2002, when she was elected Judge of the Higher Trade and now the Court of Commerce, where he is still in office, author of a number of expert reports in the field of procedural and material law. Ivan Jovicic, who graduated with an average rating at Belgrade University, Faculty of Law, was also proposed. He passed the judicial exam in 1992. For the first time, a July 1996 election for the municipal court judge in Guca was held. He was doing these jobs until 31.12.2009, when he was elected Judge of the High Court in Belgrade. By decision of the President of the Supreme Council of the Judicial Council of 15.3.2011, he was appointed as acting President of the General Court in Kragujevac, which he performed his post until July 2013, since he was acting as Judge of the High Court in Belgrade in first degree civil matter. Judge Slavica Milosevic Gazivoda, graduated from the Faculty of Law in Belgrade with an average score of 8.23. The working relationship was founded in 1986 as a legal intern. After passing the judicial exam, she worked on the affairs of the Secretary of the City Centre for Social Labour in Belgrade, and the resolution of the Government of the Republic of Serbia was appointed judge for violations of the City of Belgrade, and the decision to elect a three-year term in the courts of the General and Special Jurisdiction of the National Assembly since 29.12.2009 was appointed judge of the Criminal Court in Belgrade, where the affairs are still present. Judge Matija Radojicic, graduated from the Faculty of Law in 1993, was elected judge in 1999, currently Judge of the Third Basic Court in Belgrade and Deputy President of the Court since January 2014. Savo Djurdzic, Faculty of Law, graduated in 1981. First, he worked in Novi Sad, where he served various jobs within the profession, as a senior income inspector, an independent adviser at the Regional Public Administration Office, to be appointed deputy of the District Secretariat for Justice, Administration and Regulations of the AP Vojvodina in 1990, and was elected by the National Assembly in 1992 as judge of the District Court in Novi Sad, in which the post was uninterrupted until December 1992, when he was elected in competition for the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad. So, these are the candidates who have proposed to this Parliament to elect them as members of the High Council of the judiciary, and above all I am sure that the judges who know their colleagues best knew and showed it in a secret vote with such great turnout, as I have previously said, which the candidates are the best, the best, and who will perform this function in the best possible way, in order for the High Council of the Judiciary to exercise the function prescribed by law and as provided for in Article 2. The Law on the High Council of the judiciary was an independent and independent body that provides and guarantees the independence and independence of courts and judges. Therefore, it is also the proposal of the High Council of the Judiciary that these candidates are also proposed to the National Assembly to be elected members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. The next proposals of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, there are many, are more than 40-50 proposals, refer to a choice for vacant judicial seats in a number of courts. You've all been given the material for today's session. I'll just say briefly that, based on Article 47. The Law on Judges, and regarding the Decision on the number of Judges in Courts, the High Council of the Judiciary in the "Official Messenger" and the daily "Politicals" announced the choice of judges for courts, with the Court's names and dates when the elections were announced in the materials, and in the process of proposing candidates for the selection of judges, the High Council of Justice is, on the basis of Article 52. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the High Council of the judiciary, adopted a decision on the education of the Commission to elect judges whose task was to carry out a review of the applications submitted for the ad, to establish their completeness and well-being, to hold talks with candidates who applied for the election for judges and to assess whether candidates meet the criteria and criteria for the election. In accordance with the provisions of Article 49 of the Treaty, the Commission shall The Law on Judges, the High Council of the Court of Justice, has obtained an opinion for all candidates on professionalism, competence and dignity for the exercise of judicial office, and an opinion on expertise, competence and dignity for candidates from the authorities and organisations in which candidates work has been obtained for candidates. For the candidates in the bar, the opinion of the bar in which the lawyer is registered, and for those candidates who are present and performing the cases in the courts, the opinion of the session of all the judges of the court from which the candidate originates, as well as the opinion of the session of all judges directly to the Court of Justice, has been obtained. The election commissions held talks with candidates who applied for a re-election ad for the election of judges. On the basis of the Commission's report, and taking into account the opinions of all the judges from which the candidate originates and directly to the High Court of Justice, the High Council of the judiciary has established which candidates meet all the criteria and criteria for selecting the judges prescribed by Article 43. Laws on Judges and Provisions of Articles 4, 6, 7, 8 and 9. Decisions on the setting of criteria and criteria for the assessment of expertise, competence and dignity for the selection of judges and presidents of the courts analysed everything relating to these candidates, their work so far, the reputation of the collective, the opinion of the sittings of that court, or the session of all the Judges of the Great Court, then the evaluations that the candidates received during the previous period which was relevant for the selection and on this basis and proposed that certain candidates be selected for each of the courts. Thus, the High Council of the Court of Justice for the Election of Judges at the General Court in Loznica, where it was otherwise necessary to propose two candidates for two vacancys and to which a total of 29 candidates applied, decided to propose candidates Danojlić Miladin, a judicial assistant in the Higher Court in Šapac and Lazarevic Oliver, a judicial assistant at the General Court in Loznica. A total of 59 candidates who were otherwise interviewed by the Commission and the commission decided that the Council for the Selection of Judges at the Criminal Court in Sapac also proposed candidates: Jelic Mladen, a judicial assistant at the basic court in Sapac, Mijic Milenka, head of the Legal, Staff and General Affairs Service at the General Hospital "Dr Lazarevic" in Sapac. For the election of judges at the Criminal Court in Zrenjanin, which was registered by a total of 63 candidates, 35 candidates from the court's assistants, three candidates from the line of lawyers and 25 candidates from the other persons. The Commission, i.e. the High Council of the Judiciary, has proposed to this Assembly to propose to elect judges at the Criminal Court in Zrenjanin candidates Markovic Marija, judicial assistant at the Criminal Court of Appeal and Stojanović Sofia, a judicial assistant at the Privredna Court in Zrenjanin. If you look at these biographies, all of these candidates can see, among other things, that they are all rated with the highest marks, that they have won a great reputation and trust in their collective, because the collectives have made a very positive statement and are at the very top of the list of statements at the session of all the judges, that is, the institution in which they work, and that they are very experienced candidates who have worked for many years and have done extremely professional jobs after having been passed the judicial exam, so that is the period from when they passed the judicial exam 10 years, 12 years, 14 years, and even 30 years, therefore, extremely professional candidates that the High Council considers to be successful if elected by this Parliament. The High Council of the Judiciary is the basis of Article 13(3). The Law on the High Council of the Judiciary established a motion for a decision to elect judges for the Court of First Instance in Aleksinac, Negotin and the Court of First Instance in Piroth, so that for the selection of judges in the Court of Justice in Aleksinac, there were six candidates in the order of lawyers and 17 candidates in the order of the other persons who had reported 46 candidates in total, of which 23 candidates in the order of the judicial assistants, six candidates in the order of lawyers and 17 candidates in the order of the other persons. The Commission, i.e. the High Council, is now proposing to the Assembly to propose to elect a judge at the General Court in Aleksinec, a candidate for Milosevic Ivana, a judicial assistant at the General Court in Aleksinec. For the election, i.e. to fill two vacancy seats in the Court of First Instance in Negotin, the High Council of the Judiciary has proposed that this parliament be elected by Antonović Dragana, a judge in the Supreme Court in Novi Sad, Krstic Darko, a judicial assistant at the Basic Court in Negotin, and for the selection of three candidates for three vacated Judges in the Court of First Instance in Piroth, the High Council has proposed that Zivkovic Dragana, a judicial assistant at the Court of Justice in Piroth, Jovanovic Jasmina, a judicial assistant in the Higher Court in Pirot, Jovanovic Sanja, a judicial assistant in the Higher Court of Justice in Piroth. From their biography, from their results so far related to the work so far, we can see that they are extremely professional candidates. The candidates who have all been evaluated in the previous three years with the highest grades, therefore, are particularly prominent, the candidates from whom the highest number has been passed by the master or has completed other supplementary schools and education, who are engaged in professional work and candidates who are by the judges at the College of Courts in which they perform their duties and tasks and judges of direct senior courts are assessed as candidates who are of great quality and who can fully respond to these significant functions that they will need to deal with in the future. When it comes to an ad for the filling of vacancy in the Vranj basic court, the Vranj Criminal Court and the Niš Criminal Court, a total of 48 candidates, one candidate in the order of judges, 30 candidates in the order of the judicial assistants, one candidate in the line of lawyers and 16 candidates in the order of the other persons, were registered for the selection of judges in Vranj. The Commission has otherwise held talks with them in a total of 47 and after reviewing all applications by the Commission, i.e. the High Council of the Judiciary has proposed to this House that candidates Ilic Vesna, Judge at the General Court in Surdulica, Stanković Maja, Judge at the Supreme Court in Vranja, Stanojković Natasa, Judicial Assistant at the Main Court in Vranja and Cvetković Valentina, Judge at the Higher Court in Vranja. Advocacy for the selection of judges at the Vranj Criminal Court in order to fill two vacant judges, a total of 36 candidates and the High Council of the judiciary applied after an analysis of the results of the work of all candidates, all the parameters that were important for the decision-making and proposing to this parliament, estimating the overallity of their work and the results of their work and reputation in the court and their previous activities, the opinion of the colleges and the evaluations they received in the previous period, proposed to elect Mihajlović Saša, a judicial assistant in the Higher Court in Vranja and Nikolic Dragana, a judicial assistant in the Vranje Court of Justice. And for the election and completion of four vacant judicial posts, in the Criminal Court in Nis to elect the candidates Damnjanović Bratislava, the beneficiary of the initial training of the Judicial Academy, Krstic Jasmina, the judicial assistant at the Criminal Court of Appeal, Mirić Biljana, the judicial assistant at the Court of Appeal in Nis and Uvalin Milos, the judicial assistant at the Court of Appeal in Nis. When it comes to these candidates, I must point out that for these candidates, it is characteristic that most of them have extremely high averages that range from 9.19, 9.06, 8.55, 8.87 and that I do not read all the other results. That these candidates who have achieved the results of the work in 2012, 2013 and 2014 have been evaluated with the estimates "in particular it stands out". That most of them passed and entered and with the highest grades completed master's or postgraduate studies and that, therefore, the experienced judges who were able to assess their work so far, were evaluated with the highest grades and took the very high places on the lists made up of precisely these colleagues who were in a situation not to follow their work, the results of work, the reputation of the environment they enjoy, and everything else that is important for the selection of this responsible function. When it comes to the election of judges of the General Court in the Kingdom, in order to fill the two vacancys, 73 candidates were reported, and the talks were held with 72 candidates reported. After considering all the applications, the talks, opinions obtained, all that was important in accordance with the legal regulations and criteria and criteria, the High Council proposed to this Assembly that the candidates Popović Bojana, the judge's assistant at the Higher Court in the Kingdom and Sakić Zukovski Ana, be elected judge in the Higher Court of the Kingdom. While three vacancys in the Basic Court of Cacca have been completed, where 50 candidates have been registered, two candidates from the order of judges, 38 candidates from the court's assistants, one candidate from the line of lawyers and nine candidates from other persons, the High Council of the judiciary proposes to elect Mangović Sretenović Natasa, a judicial assistant at the Main Court in Cačka, Radović Dragana, a judicial assistant in the Higher Court in Cačka and Tanasijević, born Stanisic Marijana, a judicial assistant in the Higher Court of Cacca. While for the selection of judges in the Primary Court in Priboj, for the purpose of filling in a vacant court seat to which 9 candidates have been registered, and after considering all applications and esteemed all the parameters relevant for the decision to propose to this Assembly, the Council has proposed to elect candidate Čocović Zorica, a judicial assistant at the Basic Court in Priboj. During the previous period, the High Council of the Judiciary also announced ads for the filling of vacant Judges in the General Court in Kruševec, Prijepolje, Kragujevac, Violation Court and the General Court in Kragujevac, the General Court in Ivanjica and the Criminal Court in Gornji Milanovac. After considering all the applications and examinations of all the facts that are important for the election and for the complete of the three vacancys in the basic court in Kruševec, proposed by Lazić Raicevic Mirjan, a judicial assistant at the Basic Court in Krusevec, Roganovic Jasmin's judicial assistant at the basic court in Krusevec and Cvetković Vladan, a judicial assistant in Krusevec. For the selection of judges at the primary court in Prijepolje, proposed Kukuljac Muhammad, a judicial assistant at the primary court in Prijepolje and Topisarović Dragana, a judicial assistant at the primary court in Prepolje. For the Kragujevac Criminal Court, which was otherwise registered with 81 candidates, after considering all the applications and all that was important and important, according to the VSS regulations, he proposed to elect candidates of Plamenac Ivana, the judicial assistant at the Court of Appeal in Kragujevac, Tomović Vladimir, Judge at the Higher Court in Kragujevac, while for the Court of Justice, since there were two contests for the primary court in Kragujevac, one of 24 July 2015 and one of 2 July 2015, to complete four seats in the Court of Justice, so VSS proposed to elect Butulija Janković Aleksandra, judicial assistant at the Court of Appeal in Kragujevac, Vulović Nenad, judicial assistant in the primary court in Kragujevac, Ritovečki Perljenić Jelena, judicial assistant at the Court of Justice and Association of the Court of Justice in the Court of Justice of the Kragujevac. It is a matter of exceptional quality candidates, just to point out that the election for the Kragujevac General Court has been reported by a number of candidates, candidates who have had exceptional and high averages, candidates who were otherwise assessed by their colleagues with the highest marks, so they take an extremely high place on the lists at the hearings of all judges, candidates who have all been assessed with maximum high marks in the previous period, so the evaluations are particularly prominent, but after considering all the results, all candidates in their total decided to propose these candidates for a choice for judges. When it comes to the selection of judges for the General Court in Ivanjica for the purpose of fulling two vacancys, the competition since 24 July 2015, which was attended by 22 candidates, 16 candidates from the order of the judicial assistants and six candidates from other persons, the Council has proposed to the Assembly to elect Gojkovic Daniela, a judicial assistant at the Court of Justice at the Basic Court in Čačka and Krivoća Miroslav, the beneficiary of the initial training of the Judicial Academy. For Gornji Milanovac, the Criminal Court in Gornji Milanovac, for the purpose of filling a vacant court post, after examining all applications, talks and opinions made, the VSS proposed to elect a Criminal Court in Gornji Milanovac Lukić Srdjan, a municipal public defender in the municipality of Gornja Milanovac. We have another proposal for the VSS which also refers to the election to fill out the vacancy of judges at the Pozarevec Criminal Court, which was otherwise registered by a total of 11 candidates and included eight candidates from the order of judicial assistants, two candidates from the line of lawyers and one candidate from the order of others. Talks with the candidates reported, so a total of 11 were held on several occasions and after reviewing all reports of talks and opinions received, taking into account and the opinion of the commission, the VSS proposed to this Parliament to elect judges at the Pozarevec Criminal Court, to elect candidate Daniel Dacic, head of the Municipal Administration in Mali Crnoć. As you could see, from this proposal from the VSS, I didn't explain each candidate individually, because it's clear to you that we would stay here for a few hours. We are at your disposal, if you consider it necessary for one of the candidates to provide some more detailed information regarding his work so far, his work results, but from these short résumés, which are also in your materials, we can see that these are extraordinary candidates. And just to point out that you were able to conclude yourself, reading this material, that the average rating of these candidates is mostly high, that it is a significant number of candidates who have an extremely long internship after passing the judicial exam. That a number of them, i.e. an extremely large number, have completed master and other seminars, i.e. similar courses, that all for their work have been assessed with the highest marks, the assessments are "in particular highlighted" in the previous period, and that they have received the best recommendations from their colleagues, since they are at the top of the list at the time of the judge's statement, which were otherwise able to directly and over a long period of time appreciate their work. I can tell you that neither the VSS commission nor the VSS itself was easy to get from such a large number of candidates reported. Let me just tell you that for these judge seats that I've counted in total there were 899 candidates, that the VSS commission held a conversation with a total of 659 candidates. Each of them has been interviewed, because I believe you agree that in addition to looking at the results, which we say we have in the materials, that is, their work so far, the results of the work, the opinions of the college, the opinions of directly more colleges, everything that is important and all the parameters that we can see, and in accordance with the regulations and rules adopted by the VSS. I believe that you agree that it is important and important that the VSS commission conducts and a direct conversation with the candidates, that in this one direct conversation we hear from the candidates what they have been doing so far, to make clear what they think they are doing in the future, what their vision of their work and the judiciary is, and that regardless of the weight of the work both the Commission and the VSS itself, it is extremely important to see all the results more realistically, or all the candidates and to be able to submit relevant proposals to this Assembly. I'm sure now that among those who have applied, and this is close to 900 candidates who have applied for these vacant judges, and we agreed at the VSS session, there were still extremely good candidates. Of course, we couldn't suggest everything, but VSS absorbed their names, and I'm sure in the next period when it appears and empty places and when discussed, they will certainly be proposed by the VSS as candidates who will certainly be able to perform these significant judicial functions. I am sure that this is important and not only for us from the VSS or you who are sitting here today and who are going to decide tomorrow according to the proposals of the VSS, but also for the citizens of Serbia, so that, I believe, we all agree, we have had one more quality, better, more professional, more organised and efficient judiciary, which is what I believe the aim of all of us here and that is why we have also tried to propose to the Assembly, or this distinguished home, those candidates that we have assessed to be the most qualified and those candidates who we believe will successfully perform these judicial functions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49162	Thank you, Mr. Tomic. Now I would like to give Mrs Majdi Rakic, an election member of the State Council of Prosecutors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49163	At a session held on 30 December 2015, the Honorable People's MPs, the Honorable State Major Prosecutors' Ministers decided to elect the following candidates for election members of the State's Chief Prosecutors' Office and Deputy Public Prosecutors. From the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, Dr. Goran Ilic, deputy member of the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office. From the Appealal Public Prosecutor's Office, the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime and the Prosecutor's Office for War Crimes Radovan Lazic, deputy public prosecutor at the New Sad Public Prosecutor's Office. From the Senior Public Prosecutor's Office, Stanislav Dukic, deputy public prosecutor at the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade. Two candidates from the Main Public Prosecutors Svetlana Nenadic, deputy public prosecutor at the First Basic Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade and Sandra Kulezic, deputy public prosecutor at the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Sapac. Public prosecutors from the territory of an autonomous province of one candidate, Tatjan Lagumdzhi, deputy public prosecutor in the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Sad. The president of the State Council of Prosecutors decided on 5 October 2015 to launch a procedure for proposing candidates for election members of the State Council of Prosecutors. According to the Law on the State Council of Prosecutors and the Regulation on the work of the Electoral Commission of the State Council of Prosecutors, the electoral commission has conducted an election procedure for election members of the public prosecutor's office and deputy public prosecutors. At a session held on 13 November 2015, the Electoral Commission of the State Council of Prosecutors decided on the publication of a total number of voters in public prosecutors in the Republic of Serbia, a solution setting out polling stations for the implementation of procedures for proposing candidates for election members of the Council from the ranks of public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors with permanent office, as well as a solution setting out a final list of candidates for election members. Public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors elect candidates for State Major Prosecutors on the basis of free, general, equal and direct electoral rights by a secret vote. The election for the process of proposing candidates for election members of the Council of Public Prosecutors and Deputy Public Prosecutors was held on December 1st 2015. The paper of the Electoral Commission on the establishment of the final results of the vote was submitted to the Council on 4 December 2015. In accordance with Article 35(4), The Law on the State Council of Prosecutors, the final decision on a proposal for candidates from the public prosecutor's office, i.e. Deputy Public Prosecutors from each candidate list, delivers State Greater Prosecutors to the National Assembly. For what reason has the Council of Elections of the State Council of Prosecutors of the Public Prosecutors and Deputy Prosecutors proposed Dr Goran Ilic, Deputy of the Republic Public Prosecutor? He was born in 1963 in the King. In 1989, he graduated from the Faculty of Law in Nis, and passed the judicial exam in 1997. The deputy prosecutor's duty in Belgrade's Second Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office was held from 1998 to 2001 to be then elected as public prosecutor at the First Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade. During the period 2001 to 2003, he served as a member of the High Council of Justice, and in 2009, a deputy of the Republic Public Prosecutor was elected. He mastered Law School in Novi Sad in 2001 and obtained the title of Master of Legal Sciences. He received his doctorate in 2007 at the Faculty of Law in Nis, defending the dissertation on the subject – creating an organisation and functioning of criminal justice in Serbia between 1945 and 1957 and gaining the appointment of a doctor of legal science. During 2001, he completed a specialist course in the field of international humanitarian law, and in 2006 obtained a certificate from the Justice Centre for the possession of special knowledge in the area of child rights and the criminal protection of minors. Based on the Ministry of Science and Technological Development's decision, he was awarded a scientific associate in the field of social science in 2009. He completed training of the Council of Europe and the Judicial Academy for Teachers for Justice, Prosecutor's Office and Police on Corruption and Crime. The co-author is three monographs and more manuals. He has written over 50 scientific and professional papers in the area of criminal law and judicial organisation, published in chambers with domestic and international consultations. He was an editor of several scientific and professional publications and chambers. He was president and member of a dozen working groups and other professional bodies of the Justice Ministry, the Ministry of Justice, the State Council of Prosecutors, the OSCE Mission in Serbia and the Council of Europe. During the period 2001 to 2004, he was a member of the editorial board of the expert information journal "Legal Informor", and in 2009 he was appointed as a member of the Directorate for Crime and Criminal Law for the period 2009 to 2010, as well as a member of the Commission for Training of Judges and Prosecutors of the High Council of Justice for the same period. By the Council of Europe, he was engaged as a national expert in the design of the Public Prosecutor's Office Act. From the establishment of the Judicial Centre to its transformation to the Judicial Academy, he served as a member of the Judicial Centre Program Council. During the period 2010-2014 he served as a member of the Management Board of the Judicial Academy. At the Annual Conference of the International Prosecutors' Association in Seoul in 2011, he was presented with a prize for the contribution of the Association of Public Prosecutors and Deputy Prosecutors of Serbia to the goals of the International Prosecutors' Association. He also served as president of the Association of Public Prosecutors and Deputy Public Prosecutors of Serbia. He has been a member of the Serbian Association for Criminal and Legal Theory and Practices since 2014. At the Annual Conference of the International Prosecutors' Association in Dubai, he had a presentation on the subject – Challenges in the system of evaluation of the prosecution's work. The Council for a member of the State Council of Prosecutors of the Public Prosecutors and Deputy Prosecutors is also proposing Mr Radovan Lazic, deputy public prosecutor at the New Sad Public Prosecutor's Office, who was born in 1970 in Osijek. He graduated from the Faculty of Law in Belgrade in 1995, and passed the judicial exam in 1998. For a public prosecutor at the Public Prosecutor's Office in Backo Topoli, he was elected in 2001. He has been a deputy public prosecutor at the Appealal Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Sad since 2010. He has a certificate of acquired special knowledge in the field of child rights and criminal protection of minors, a certificate of the Judicial Academy on acquired special knowledge in the field of child rights and crimes of young people, as well as the ability to deal with minor offenders in all stages of the juvenile proceedings, a certificate for strategic planning of public relations. He has certificates on the completion of the IPR course for court and prosecutor's representatives, as an intellectual property, an advanced level. Employment in the Sub-Committee for Human Rights and Property-Legal Relations of the Federal Committee for Kosovo and Metohija, i.e. in the Department of Justice of the Co-ordination Centre for Kosovo and Metohija. He was a member of the Executive Board of the Association of Public Prosecutors and Deputy Prosecutors, the Secretary of the Executive Board of the Association of Prosecutors and Deputy Prosecutors, as well as the chairman of the Management Board of the Association. He was a member of a number of working groups working on amendments and amendments to the laws, a deputy member of the Commission for the implementation of the National Strategy for the Reform of Justice in the period from 2013 to 2018. He was a member of the Working Party for the Analysis of the Change of the Constitutional Framework, the Commission for the implementation of the National Strategy for the Reform of Justice for the period from 2013 to 2018. He is a member of the Administrative Board of the Judicial Academy since September 2014 and a member of the Working Body of the State Council of Prosecutors in drawing up criteria and criteria for the assessment of the expertise and competence and dignity of candidates when proposing and electing a public prosecutor's office. He has participated in numerous projects, as well as in country and abroad consultations. The council for the election member of the State Council of Prosecutors of the Public Prosecutors and Deputy Prosecutors is proposing Stanislav Dukic, deputy public prosecutor in Belgrade's Higher Public Prosecutor's Office, who was born in 1969 in the Kingdom. He graduated from the Faculty of Law in Belgrade in 1997, and passed the judicial exam in 2001. The traineeship began as a lawyer's intern and continued as a prosecutor's intern at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in the Kingdom. From 2002 to 2009, he served as a lawyer, and since 2010, he has served as a public prosecutor in the Senior Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Pazar. During his duties as a public prosecutor, he professionally perfected himself and co-authored in writing scientific and professional papers, and this: The problem of using language and letters in criminal proceedings before criminal courts in the Republic of Serbia, followed by the abuse of language and letter rights in criminal proceedings in the Republic of Serbia and the specialisation of prosecutors as a form of more effective fight against crime. He has participated in many seminars and study trips in the country and abroad from human trafficking, and is also a member of the Association of Public Prosecutors and Deputy Public Prosecutors in the Republic of Serbia. The Council for a member of the State's Council of Prosecutors of the Public Prosecutors and Prosecutors is proposing to Svetlana Nenadic, deputy public prosecutor at the First General Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, who was born in 1977 in Sarajevo. She graduated from the Faculty of Law in Belgrade in 2002, and passed the judicial exam in 2005. She finished her master's degree in academic studies in 2012 at the Faculty of Law of the University of Belgrade, the direction of international and legal and defended work on the subject – Human Rights Infringement in Criminal Procedure, the practice of the European Court of Human Rights. He is a PhD student at the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, the direction of the international legal science area. In the Belgrade District Public Prosecutor's Office, she worked as a volunteer from 2003 to 2004, and then as a prosecutor's associate from 2006 at the First Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, while she was elected as deputy public prosecutor at the First General Public Prosecutor's Office in 2010. He is a member of the Association of Public Prosecutors and Deputy Prosecutors of the Republic of Serbia, where he has participated in numerous projects, and since 2015 he has been a member of the Management Board of that professional association. She published several publications in the area of criminal law and public prosecutor's office, as author and co-author. She took specialist courses and speaks English. The council for an election member of the State Council of Prosecutors of the Public Prosecutors' Office and Deputy Prosecutors' Prosecutors' Office suggests Sandra Kulezic, deputy public prosecutor at the Shappac Public Prosecutor's Office. She was born in 1970 in Šapec. The Faculty of Law graduated in Novi Sad in 1997 and passed the judicial exam in 2001. She worked as an intern and expert associate at the Municipality Court in Sapac, while she served as deputy public prosecutor in the municipal public prosecutor's office in 2003, which she performed until 2010. During the period 2011 to 2012, she was employed by the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Urbanism, at the job of counsellors for normative jobs in the Department of Housing Affairs, where she participated as a member of the Working Group in the adoption of the Rules on how to work, composition, the way in which judges of honours of the Engineering Chamber of Serbia, the Regulation on the design and construction of residential buildings and apartments and regulations on architectural competitions. He served as deputy public prosecutor at the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Sapac in 2012. She has participated in numerous professional seminars, training from different fields, such as: the ban on discrimination, the co-operation of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Police, the protection against domestic violence, the conduct of a public prosecutor's investigation and data protection. During 2014 and 2015, she participated in several seminars under the Advanced Training and Skills Programme of the General Search of the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, the Judicial Academy, the OSCE Mission in Serbia, the US Department of Justice and the US Embassy in Belgrade. After completing training for training instructors on the skills of representation and in the main search, she was also hired as a lecturer at the project "Improvement of the art of representing the case at the trial for public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors in Serbia". Since March 2015 he is a member of the Management Board of the Association of Public Prosecutors and Deputy Prosecutors and actively participates in the affirmation and protection of the position and reputation of public prosecutors. Councils for an election member of the state council of prosecutors from the public prosecutor's office and deputy public prosecutors are proposing to Tatjan Lagundzija, deputy public prosecutor at the New Sad Public Prosecutor's Office. She was born in 1964 in Zrenjanin. The Faculty of Law in Novi Sad graduated in 1987 and passed the judicial exam in 1991. She worked at the District Court in Novi Sad from 1989 to 1991, after which she was employed at the Novi Sad D.O.O.A. Mark, where she worked on representation operations until 1994. The work of an expert associate at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Sad was carried out by 1998. A deputy public prosecutor at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Sad was elected in 1998 and served until 2004, and then took up employment in the DDOR Novi Sad Insurance and Resect Insurance and Resect, at the jobs of the director of the sector for representation and regression. As a public prosecutor in the Senior Public Prosecutor's Office in Subotica, she was elected in 2010, and has been elected as a public prosecutor in the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Sad since 2014. She published several professional papers and publications at the Billen of the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office. She participated in professional seminars in the area of criminal law, organised by international institutions. The Serbian Chamber of Commerce Assembly elected a judge of honour at the Serbian Chamber of Commerce in 2008, and was a member of the Commission for Legal Affairs elected and appointed by the Association of Insurance Association of Serbia Assembly. Between 2007 and 2009, she was the president of this Commission. She was a lecturer and a participant in many seminars and professional gatherings in the area of criminal-material and criminal-processing law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49164	I thank Mrs. Rakic. Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? The word is by MP Petar Petrovic, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49165	Mr. Vice-President of the Assembly, distinguished guests from the Ministry of Justice, the State Council of Prosecutors and the Supreme Council of the Judiciary, I would ask, Mr. Chairman, to say something in a few sentences on behalf of the Committee, and then to continue as an authorised representative of the Unity of Serbia, not to report twice for a word and to cut short the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49166	Here you go, Mr. Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49167	I can say that the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government unanimously supported all the draft laws that are on the agenda today and proposed to the National Assembly to adopt them in principle in the voting day. When it comes to the decision on the election of members of the State Council of Prosecutors of the Public Prosecutors and Deputy Prosecutors, the Committee also unanimously accepted the results of the vote, which was held for members of the State Council of Prosecutors between members of the Public Prosecutors and Public Prosecutors, and before us were the results chosen by colleagues and colleagues of the candidates who were now elected or recommended to the National Assembly to adopt them and to elect them as members of the State Council of Prosecutors. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government proposes to the National Assembly to accept these proposals and select the ladies and gentlemen mentioned as members of the State Council of Prosecutors. When it comes to the election of members of the Supreme Judicial Council, elections have also been held between the judges of the basic, senior, appeals courts, the Supreme Cassation Court, the criminal courts, and before us are the results of the vote of these judges and the Committee, it also proposes to the National Assembly to accept these results of the vote and the aforementioned judges elected as members of the High Council of Judges in the order of judges. Speaking of elections, I can say that the Parliamentary Club of Unity Serbia will also propose, or propose, and vote, they will accept all these proposals when it comes to the election of members of the State Council of Prosecutors and the Supreme Council of the judiciary. We will also support the proposal for a decision by the High Council of the judiciary, when it comes to the election of judges who are first elected to the judicial functions for all of these courts that Mr Tomic has spoken of, that I am now not counting them, and it is about a dozen and more courts of the basic and infringements in the Republic of Serbia. When it comes to the draft laws we have received from the Justice Ministry, the Single Serbia Parliament Club will support all these draft laws in the Voting Day, and in particular we are pleased to accept the bill on removing the consequences of the confiscation of property to victims of holocausts who do not have heirs. It is also the obligation of the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with the 2009 Terezin Declaration, to introduce into its legislation one such law. According to the information we received from the Ministry of Justice, up to now over 80% of the assets of Jewish heirs, whose ancestors were victims of the Holocaust, have been returned in a material or monetary way and that about 20% of these assets are now in circulation, in order to be subject to basic law, the Law on the return of property so-called. Restitutions, either returned to the provisions of this law as provided for. I can say that Unique Serbia believes that this law should have been passed before, but better now and now seven years after the adoption of this declaration that we have this law, because it is known that many Jews and Jewish families in the time of enemy occupation from 1941 to 1945 have been deprived of their property, life and this is a historic moment for this injustice to be corrected and, as I said, the Single Serbia Parliament Club in the day of voting to vote in favour of the bill. When it comes to the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Infringements, we welcome what the Ministry of Justice has realized that in the application of the Law on Infringements, which took place on 1 March 2014, certain possibilities have occurred, so to speak, that this infringement order is in a different way, i.e. to increase the amounts that can be paid directly by an infringement order, without participation through court proceedings, etc. What is particularly important is that, after the entry into force of this law, there will be fewer opportunities, i.e. I would say that it will almost be impossible to avoid criminal penalties, i.e. to avoid coming to a criminal court by invitation, because of not receiving a call or avoiding a call, there is a statute of limitations, because again, according to some of my information, there are tens of thousands of these misdemeanors which cannot be processed because there are no perpetrators of the offence. In this way, it will improve the way in which punishments for offences committed by citizens, legal entities and others will be imposed. As far as the third law is concerned, the Law on the Regulation of Courts, the High Council of the Judiciary, recognised the problems that would arise and followed that the provision of Article 34 remained. The law has been in force since 1 July of this year, and certain misunderstandings would certainly occur, so it sent a request to the justice ministry. I can also say, on behalf of the High Council of the judiciary, in whose work I have participated, I thank the Ministry of Justice for accepting the proposal and coming out with a change, i.e. with a proposal to amend and supplement this law, i.e. to extend this article until 1 January 2016, for many practical reasons. Not to be too long, since it's about time, let me point out once again that the JS MPs' club in voting day will support all the drafts of the law, and these two international agreements I haven't talked about, as well as all these proposals, both the State's Major Prosecutors and the Supreme Council of the judiciary, and we'll vote for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49168	Thank you, Mr. Petrovich. The word has been authorised by MP Zika Gojkovic. Here you go, Mr. Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49169	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry, honourable fellow MPs, in my presentation, I will rely most on the proposal for a law to remove the consequences of the confiscation of property to the victims of the Holocaust, who do not have any legal heirs. We had the opportunity to hear recently from media funds that more than 80% of Dr. Ruben Fox, president of the Union of Jewish municipalities of Serbia, that more than 80% of the pre-war population of Jews in Serbia died during World War II. This defeating data, of course, terrible data, is more than a good reason for Serbia to pass one of these laws. The state of Serbia plans to mitigate injustice against Holocaust victims who do not have heirs, by paying 950,000 euros each year to the Jewish communities in our country, not only to repay the seized property of those victims, but to pay them 950,000 euros each year for the next quarter of the century to study the crime against Jews during World War II. All seized property is now in most cases owned by the Republic of Serbia, or certain local self-government, state and public enterprises. Although the state did not participate, of course, in the persecution of the Jewish people, it should not benefit from the consequences of the Holocaust. If the state kept property taken away from the victims of the Holocaust in its possession, it would mean that it benefited from such an unloved event. A fundamental reason for the adoption of this law is the deep compassion of the Serbian people and representatives of the Serbian government towards the great victims of the Jewish people during World War II. The other two reasons why the law was passed are of a formal nature. The first is that the law returned property and compensation from 2009, stipulates that the removal of property from the confiscation of the victims of the Holocaust without living heirs will be regulated by a special law, and the second because the Republic of Serbia is a signator of the Territorial Declaration which advocates the principles prescribed by the draft law. This law should remove the consequences of the confiscation of property to the victims of Holocaust who do not have living heirs while the removal of property is due to the confiscation of property to the victims of the Holocaust who have heirs by applying the General Act on Returning of Assets and Compensation. The return of the seized property is intended to take place in a natural form which is identical to that laid down in the Act on the Return of Assets and Compensation to which the provisions of a specific law and which are referred both in accordance with its respective principles and with the same exceptions. The applicant for the return of property under special law will be a Jewish municipality on whose territory the seized property is located. They will also return property in natural form to that Jewish municipality on whose territory the property is located. Another way of removing is the financial support provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget, it has been suggested that this type of support is 950,000 euros annually in the next 25 years since the law was passed. The funds will also be paid at the expense of the Union of Jewish municipalities. The law sets out exactly what activities the funds can be directed at, so that the funds should go to study the Holocaust, for education in the Holocaust, for scientific research related to the Holocaust, then for financing the schooling of young talents of the Republic of Serbia, providing financial assistance to the survivors of the Holocaust, then to the Jewish community in Serbia and to the costs incurred by the management of those revenues. The draft of this law provides for the training of the Supervisory Board which we have had the opportunity to hear from the minister with the task of monitoring how these funds are managed. The chairman of the Supervisory Board will be a representative of the government, and the other members will be representatives of Jewish organisations, the World Jewish Organisation for Restitution, the Union of Jewish Municipalitys. When the law is passed, the following collection requests for the return of property, after which the exact number of things will be known, the value of the taken property from the victims of the Holocaust without an heir. As Restitution Agency Director Strahinja Sekulić said, the deadline for submitting the request is three years, and only after the deadline will the volume and value of the property be known and it is now very difficult to give any assessment. The technical solutions of the Law on General Restitution will be applied in these cases and that is, of course, inevitability. When some property is left without an heir by the rules of general property law, it should belong to the state, but here is a specific situation due to the fate of the Jewish community in Serbia, which in a cruel way almost completely disappeared during World War II. This is not about Serbia's responsibility for the Holocaust, the Kingdom of Yugoslavia was a victim of aggression. Serbia was occupied in World War II, and the unprecedented occupation regime was Quinceptic and Serbia was part of the anti-fascist coalition, whatever the auditors think today. It is therefore a act of solidarity with our fellow Jews who have lived in Belgrade for over 500 years and who have suffered terrible casualties during this period. A number of Jewish cemeteries, especially in places where after World War II there was no longer a single fellow citizen of Moses' faith, were abandoned and forgotten, to the extent that neither the inhabitants of Serbia knew about the existence of a Jewish cemetery in their territory. The Jewish congregation, unfortunately, did not have the capacity or the power to edit and care for them. Many of them are in very poor condition, the fences are broken, the tombstones have fallen, broken, some graves are even moved and moved. I'm glad the plan is to take the first step to the cemetery in Crvenkovski, Ratkov, Sonta, Kovilya and some other places in Vojvodina. The draft envisions the financial support of the state to the Union of Jewish municipalities, and if I have already said so, it is prescribed that 950,000 euros can be spent for what purpose. They can also be used as financial support to the Jewish community in our country, and this money, for example. will not be given for use to build a memorial centre at the Old Fair, where there was a notorious camp for Jews, later on for Serbs and Roma, because it would mean that the property of Jewish victims marks the place where they were killed. It is the duty of the state, and so is its intention, and so we heard from the minister, to properly mark the old fairground, but also Topovo sheds, Banjica, the Eggs that were part of that killing system. As we could hear in the next few months, the Jewish community will be returned to the synagogue in Zemun. There are still several synagogues in Serbia that need to be returned, but the most significant one is in Apatino, which is unique in the world according to its fresco painting. She should certainly be preserved. For a while there was a blasphemy of some other religious community, I'm not sure which, but it was supposed to be used, of course, for cultural purposes. And the Zemun synagogue, unfortunately, was supposed to serve for cultural purposes, but for a time it was a disco club. As far as I'm concerned, it's a restaurant today. This law, respected fellow MPs, respected people from the ministry, shows in fact what Serbia is, that Serbia is a serious country that thinks about all its citizens, regardless of which are religious, political or other belongings, and that it treats them equally. This is for respect, not only when we talk about this issue today, but also respect when we talk about our path to the EU and the creation of a strong and legal state. But I'd have to add something, and it's about restitution. I think the state also owes its citizens a great injustice from the past, which is to very quickly amend the Restitution Act. Since 1945, it has been known to all of us that laws have been passed in the one - party congregation that violate human rights and take away private property. We have a law today, and the minister said that we first passed the Law on the return of property to the churches, and then to the citizens. I personally think that all these laws that have been passed so far have been almost exclusively political economies and a desire for political gain, not a desire to correct one of the greatest injustices of our past and finally break up with the communist heritage. That's why restitution and its amendment to the law, which I hope will soon follow, and the essence is only one thing, is the essence of the substitution. Not only the correction of one, as I have already said, of past injustices or some, to put it this way, a symbolic breakup with the communist heritage, but also the final destruction of a system based on a war crime, and unfortunately often a crime against its own people. Also, the SPO-DHSS parliamentary group believes that this is a good test for our society, not only when it comes to our path to the EU, but also how truly we as a people are ready for national reconciliation. I would praise the work of the Agency for Restitution, because without these changes that I have talked about, but these are changes that are very easy to make, it is only a wish, and I have no doubt that this or the future government, which will be formed more or less in a similar scope, will change these changes of the law in restitution only in one thing, in the substitution and thus help the Agency for Restitution and Strahinja Sekuliæ, a gentleman who often fights with windmills to allow at least a little bit of his presence to correct one of the injustices that have been done to our people. I'll just use my time to say that the SPO will support all proposals when it comes to the appointment of judges and prosecutors, but I still need to point out one name, which is Judge Ivan Jovicic. I wouldn't talk about his candidacy, I just want to say that we support him as a member of the VSS. Enough to say he's had twice as many votes since the first one with the highest number of votes. I think that in our society, when we are fighting for a legal state, I say again, not just for the sake of the EU, but for ourselves, it is extremely important that we have honest judges, honest prosecutors and that we never again come to the situation that criminals, in the event of the assassination of Vuk Draskovic, are not only being released, but very often become victims. Unfortunately, we have seen this in the past, and I hope it will be less and less in the future, because it is necessary that we have as many honest, honest judges and judges doing their job as well as possible. I know that the minister and the people of the ministry are doing a serious and difficult job and that this job will take a long time. For this reason, it means not only because of this law that we are adopting today and because of all these points that are on the agenda, but also because of one serious effort to change one system of values in Serbia, the Serbian Renewal Movement has given and will give full support to the Ministry of Justice and, of course, we will vote positively in favour of these draft laws in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49170	I thank you, Mr. Gojkovic. The word has been given by MP Slobodan Homen, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr. Homen.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49171	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the Supreme Council of the Judicial Council and the State Council of the Prosecutors, dear colleagues, when we taught the list of our candidates as speakers for this debate, we marked that we were against it. Why are we against it? Not because we are against individual solutions, but again the practice in which we have previously pointed out, that at one session of the agenda really puts various points, and neither of us as MPs can prepare in the right way, nor do I think anyone can discuss the quality of this many different topics and areas. For the sake of the public, I'm just going to point out all the topics of today's agenda and ask where there's some really crucial connection that could be accepted when uniting the agenda. A bill to remove the consequences of confiscation of property to the victims of the Holocaust. All right. Then, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Infringements. It doesn't matter much. Then a proposal appears between the government of the Republic of Serbia and NATO. I just don't see any connection to the Holocaust victims. Well, I'm not going any further. The Ministry of Defence and the Government of the Republic of Myanmar. I don't really see the connection, and I think again, like last time, a bunch of these dots won't be processed properly, because we always talk as MPs about what's most important. In this case, I think it is, of course, the Holocaust Victims Act, or the Return of Assets and the Law of Infractions, so I will concentrate my exposure on these two areas, regardless of what it would probably be good to have time to deal with other topics as well. As for the Law on the Elimination of Assets to the victims of the Holocaust, I think it's an extremely important law. The adoption of this law was also envisaged by the adoption of the law, i.e. when the Law on Restitution was adopted in 2011. Unfortunately, we've been waiting five years, but better late than never. I think it's a good thing today this is on the agenda. I think a law like this should be passed. We as a parliamentary group are going to vote for the adoption of this law anyway. I think it is clear to both the public and all of us what the Holocaust meant and what a shame it was for Europe back then, but unfortunately the shame of the work of our people, too, because the people of our people sort of took part in it. Not to mention that embarrassing announcement that Belgrade is like the first city in which there are no more living Jews. Whether it's true or not, but that's what's left in the history books. Anyway, this is a big deal. The essence of this law, I will remind, is to return property to the Jewish community, i.e. the property of those who no longer have living heirs, who are not alive and what is now in fact in the state property, and to be used to mark the victims of the Holocaust and, of course, in every other way to assist the Jewish community. I believe this is a good thing that is happening today and that, by adopting this law itself, it will jump into the reputation of the Republic of Serbia. What I'm saying is, in a way, a grudge to the law itself, it's more of a matter of procedure. We've submitted a series of amendments and I'm going to ask the Ministry gentlemen to pay attention. These amendments primarily go in the direction of imposing more obligations on the Agency itself to facilitate the return of this property, i.e. the burden of proof and the collection of all evidence on the Agency, and not on the institution representing the victims of the Holocaust. There aren't many of these amendments, it's seven or eight amendments, and I ask you to consider them carefully, because I think I can facilitate and speed up the recovery process for the Jewish community. So, generally something that's very acceptable and, I'll repeat again, we'll be in voting day to support this law. The second law that is important is amendments and additions to the Law of Infractions. It's not the big ones, it's 20 members. It's less or less the remarks we support. It is always important, of course, to be effective in procedural laws, both criminal, civil, and, of course, the Law on Infringements, because the seriousness of a country is measured by how and how you can enforce the sanctions that someone has earned, which is determined by a court ruling, that is, at this point, by the judges for the offence. There is, in my opinion, a serious grudge and something that we have submitted to the amendment, which I think is not only a subject of general law, but also a question of respect and respect for the Constitution and the general question of whether this law, in the form in which you proposed it, can survive, or whether the court will declare it against the constitution, especially if in our recent practice we already have such experience that such provisions existed, you will correct me, I think, in the 1990s, specifically. It refers when someone is punished, or has not paid the penalty, to restrict certain rights, so here I will read in particular – issuing a driver's license, testing driver's license, issuing a registration certificate, traffic permits, registration plates, vehicle logout. In other words, if you haven't paid the fine given to you by the court for violations, when you show up to take out the driver's license that expired or register your car, the MUP, the competent authority will refuse to do so, so they will say – please go first and settle the fine, and then come and give you a driver's license. The same provision existed in the 1990s and was declared against the constitution sometime in early 2000. I would ask the Ministry to pay attention not to suggest something that has already been advertised against the constitution and to consider carefully whether such a provision should remain, that is to say, to adopt our amendment that requires that this provision be deleted. I think that, when it comes to this provision, it's really a question of human rights violations, or restricting rights, that can come out of the Constitution, I'm not sure it can come out of this law. But I will repeat, find the opinion of the Constitutional Court, I think the parallel of why he once decided, that it is very similar to that of this law. This is where we come up with another problem that is related to this law, that is, the register of fines. Yes, there is no dilemma, I fully support the existence of that register and I think it is good, useful and that it should make life easier for all of us who have committed some traffic violation, that is to say whether or not I have paid the fine, especially today when there is an offence warrant, so you didn't have to go to the judge and you actually got a sentence and there's no dilemma. I think it's a violation order for certain types of punishment that's good. But what's the problem is protecting personal data and the right to privacy. As this register was established on the Justice Department website, it allows abuse. We were witnesses that certain names appeared in the newspaper, whether someone owed or owed no punishment. I think it's the personal matter of the person who committed the crime, who owes money and, of course, the state and that it shouldn't be the data available to the general public. What's the problem? As a condition for entering the register, a unique number of citizens is required, in addition to names and last names. You know very well that until recently the unique number of citizens before the existence of the law was massively sought and used. The birth numbers of all of us are in various institutions and whatever the ban on use exists, I think that when in so many places there are, on all, various, possible requests, our home numbers are available to a wide range of citizens, journalists or those who want to make use of the Personal Data Protection Act. My suggestion, my suggestion, is that the Ministry, in another way, regulates the entry of a website, or into a database, or register of fines. I don't think that's the problem, that in addition to the unique number of citizens you can put in some other information that's only known to that person, for example. when an account is opened in a bank, etc., that it is not a problem and that it would prevent abuses, and that it is simply a matter of regulations and decisions of the Ministry of Justice. Of course, to go back to what is now our fundamental objection to the Law of Infringements, which is precisely why it makes it impossible for citizens to get driver's licenses, traffic licenses, licenses, plates, to sign off on vehicles, and I don't think that, in any case, it's a place in this law, because the Law of Infringements allows enough ways to charge those fines by force of unconscious citizens who don't want to pay. There are mandatory collection mechanisms, there is enforcement, and I think that this as an additional measure really isn't necessary, and I'm going to point out once again -- and I think it's anti-constitutional. As for the rest of the agenda, I would really not go in or comment on the choice of either the prosecutor or the judge. I think the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Council have done their job as they see fit. It is up to us to carry out the verification, or make a decision, and in that case we will also support these points of the agenda. In other words, our support for amendments and additions to the Law on Infringements will depend on the will of the Ministry, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to adopt an amendment that we consider essential. I believe that in the debate in particular, we will have plenty of opportunities to discuss each individual amendment, but if there is a government will to adopt our amendments, there is our willingness to support legislative proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49172	Thank you, Mr. Homen. The word has been issued by MP Nedo Jovanovic, authorised representatives of the parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49173	I thank you, Chairman. The honourable representatives of the ministry, the respected representatives of the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, respected fellow MPs, are ahead of us a set of laws that merit special attention, and in my discussion I will begin with the first one that I believe should have something that implies our greatest domain of attention, given that it is one of the laws that can be characterised as a law of historical importance. For what? Well, because the motives for proposing a law like this are double. The first part that can be characterized as the reason for the adoption of this law is this very historical element, the second is the legal element, which I will talk about later on, but this is historic and how significant it is, given that we define ourselves as the legal solution that provides satisfaction to those most affected during World War II. What I would like to point out at the very beginning is part of a law that can in some ways cause certain controversy, or dilemmas when it comes to the very notion of a holocaust. What a holocaust in the etemological sense of the word means is, it means state persecution and genocide over different ethnic, religious and political groups of people, so it has a pretty broad meaning. We've tied him here to the Holocaust and only one of these in the victims' classification, and that's the perilous Jewish people. If translated from Greek, it is a slightly different excuse, it is not a holocaust, then the translation - the victim of the burnt offering, or the sacrifice of the gods, but from the Hebrew language when translated, the word of the Hebrew which is pronounced “show”, is in translation – destruction, and that destruction in the worst sense of the word, or elimination. So, the holocaust, in effect, has a far broader field of meaning and includes everything that implies this word in relation to what we are going to affirm today when it comes to the topics we are discussing, which is primarily satisfactory, i.e. the removal of all the harmful consequences for those to whom the law applies and which have adverse consequences, which are the Jewish community, members of the Jewish community and the Jewish people in general, especially in the premises of the former Yugoslavia, in particular Serbia, in the period from 1941 to 1945. Dear fellow Members of the people, and above all, Serbian citizens, we are obliged to treat the injured Jewish people with special respect, for the simple reason of the sufferings that are incredibly great, not only in their own monstrosity, not only in everything that is suffering, in the strictest sense of the word, were practically carried out, but also in the number of victims. Let's start with statistics that no one can question. In particular, 300,000 Jews lived in Poland before the war, so 90%. Ninety percent of the Jews were destroyed, or killed in Poland. No smaller percentage was found in the Baltic countries, where 253,000 Jews lived before World War II, 228,000 were killed. In Germany and Austria, 240,000 Jews lived as Fascist Wasps before the war, 210,000 were killed. So it's 90 percent again. In Yugoslavia, I don't speak to Serbia, there were 43,000 Jews living in Yugoslavia, 26,000 Jews were killed, 60%. So sufferings that can hardly be described by reasonable words other than terrible. Serbia itself, Belgrade itself over 80, even close to 90% of the Jews were killed. That is why, although Serbia did not participate in the Holocaust, although there were no direct holocaust protagonists in Serbia, Serbia is obliged not only through this law but also in any other way to take all measures, all activities that relate to satisfaction, or the removal of harmful consequences, of course, and through the provisions of the Law that we are discussing today. This is especially because history indicates that such killings, such atrocities, and such crimes must never happen again not only here but anywhere on the globe. Since 1941, about the end of 1942, there have been two periods. The first period, during 1941, when most Jewish men were killed, when concentration camps were formed, when there were boarding schools, when cannon sheds, former military barracks of the former Yugoslavia and accommodation facilities in Sapco represented Jewish sites. The second period, during 1942, is the period of death, unfortunately, of the most innocent, and these are women and children. More than 5,000 women and children were killed at the Fair and other concentration camps that existed in Serbia, in the vicinity of Belgrade, slightly less in Sapac. What no one can ignore, what we all in some way not only build but also view morally as something very bad, so that it never happens again, is the fact that during the loss of Jews, mostly an alibi and that of an alibi. The German occupation forces have made decisions to shoot 100 civilians for every dead German, every dead German soldier, and every wounded 50. Who was the most injured in that moment? The Jews were killed, the most innocent. Why? Because of the fact that there was a program of the German fascist force in which the easiest way to solve the Jewish issue was reportedly the easiest way to resolve it. Unfortunately, this Jewish question was solved just like this, by executions, by atrocities, by crimes, by discrimination in the worst sense when Jews wore yellow ribbons around their hands, by the time they were introduced a curfew, when special restrictions were imposed on Jews from the supply of food, supplies and basic needs, and so on, which makes what is existential to life. Let us not forget that the German fascist force, in particular Berlin, just received the most shameful message from Belgrade, that Belgrade was cleared of Jews in early 1943. That Belgrade is the first city in Europe to have solved the Jewish issue, of course, in the worst possible way, by killing. That Belgrade is the first European city to consistently implement Eichmann's decision, the famous, fierce criminal of the German fascist force to leave Serbia without Jews. A very small number of those who survived have mostly found salvation in the people's liberating turns, the People's Liberation Revolution and other movements against fascist Germany and Germany's Reich. We need to remind ourselves of something that's the scariest thing, and that's how the executions were done. Let's just say a special vehicle was imported from Berlin to execute the brother-in-law type. We had it in Belgrade, very similar, with the same function, with the same purpose, and it was called "silence". What does that mean? This means that all those who find themselves in the trunk of that vehicle, the case that is specially equipped, hermetically closed, where the exhaust gas from the vehicle goes directly to the crate, implies only one consequence, and that is the death of those found in that crate, who will certainly not reach the Fairground, or any other concentration camp, the most women and children. If all of this is taken into account, and it is undoubtedly easy to verify, then we come to the fact that a perilous people such as Jews deserve and deserves attention that both systemically and legally resolve the issues of taking away their property, which was also applied as a measure and realised by a German fascist occupier. We're in a situation now to do this. I am sure that none, absolutely none of the MPs of this House, no matter which political party they belong to, no matter what political ideological orientations, can ignore this law, or anyone will surely support and vote for this law. It is often related to everything I have pointed out as historical facts by the government of the Republic of Serbia headed by Milan Nedic. The SPS parliamentary group has consistently insisted that changes and additions to the Rehabilitation Act be approached urgently to prevent, as we often say, from reincarnation of evil, on the other hand, to prevent the withdrawal of the past in the worst possible sense of the word, which is by restoring the idea of fascism, racism, Semitism, etc. Is that what we're allowed to do? Absolutely not, but then we need to look at one extremely realistic way of the whole situation we're in. When we talk about the rehabilitation of Milan Nedic, we are not talking about judicial proceedings, we are not talking about judgments, we are not talking about the way the Supreme Court in Belgrade performs evidence and conducts a proof procedure, because if we talk about it then we will interfere in the work of the judiciary. Then, with citizens, it will cause a kind of doubt as to why it is done, but we have the right to say that historical indicators, historical unsuspecting facts suggest that the rehabilitation of crime and collaborationism with fascism cannot be accepted, because if it is accepted we will one day come into a situation, metaphorically, that God does not give to the heirs of German origin, the heirs of the Germans in Vojvodina are asking for the return of the seized property and how, by rehabilitating Hitler. What's worse is those demands come up. What's worse is we live in an ambience where such phenomena are tolerated. That is why I, the SPS, consistently, and I am confident with my coalition partners in the view that this must not be allowed. When we talk about the law itself, I think the proposer has laid down a law on the basis of which he has to lay them down, which is the provisions of the Law on Restitution, and that as the law is defined, it really means good system solutions, and I will remind this law is procedurally legal. As a lawyer, as a lawyer, I can express myself commendably and support everything that is normized in the draft of this law, and I personally believe that there are no big dilemmas about whether this law is practically applicable or not, in any case, it is, starting with the way in which the procedure under which satsifaction is carried out against the harmful consequences of Jewish communities, Jews, those who unfortunately do not have their successors and descendants on the basis of which the restitution would be carried out. We are satisfied with the fact that there is a principle of public or transparency by which the provisions of this law are implemented. We are pleased with the fact that the state of Serbia in the next 25 years, of course, if we adopt such a law, will allocate 950,000 euros annually at the level of one calendar year and start from 1 January 2017. We are satisfied with the fact that the holders of property rights will be protected, but we are also satisfied with the fact that no one will abuse the provisions of this law, that they will not seek damages for their gain or benefit. We are pleased with the fact that this law also provides for a tax exemption, but the tax exemption only until the day of return of the property, but not from that day, because from that day on, it is known who is the taxpayer, from that day on it it is known that the revenues in the Republic of Serbia's budget will be completed. The whole law has other good solutions, above all, because the procedure itself is related to the provisions of the administrative procedure, that the deadlines as defined are adequate, that they are neither too short nor too long, and that within these deadlines there is quite enough time to collect complete documentation on the basis of which this law will be implemented. So, I propose commendation and strong support from the SPS parliamentary group for this bill. Of course, due to the shortness of time as the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, they will only briefly refer to the other topics, i.e. the points we are discussing today, in particular the Law on Infractions and very short on the choice of holders and judicial and public prosecutorial functions. In a specific case, the Law on Infringements has good solutions. This raised the question of the constitutionality of certain provisions of the law. We in the SPS parliamentary group believe that none of the provisions of this law are unconstitutional, so a question is raised which is semi-aheadly indicated, that unless a penalty is paid, it will not be possible to register a vehicle. The question is the opposite of nature, and how do you even charge huge penalties that are 90% non-chargeable if these measures are not applied? We just have to apply them. What's good is that the Institute of the Agreement on the Recognition of Violations is much better defined and because a much simpler procedure for the adoption of an agreement on the recognition of infringements is, and in the very end, respected fellow judges and prosecutors, I must express the satisfaction that you have done in a dedicated work, which you have set on the basis of the criteria you have set, set up proposals for the best candidates. I have no doubt, not at all, nor my colleagues in the SPS parliamentary group suspect that you have proposed the best candidates for both prosecution and judicial functions, and I particularly welcome the candidacy for members of the High Council of the judiciary, given that one of Branislav Gorovic's candidates won no doubt...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49174	Time, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49175	... Here, last sentence, before the court itself, the highest number of votes by fellow judges, from no one but fellow judges to be a candidate.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49176	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49177	I thank you and once again point out that we will support all the legal proposals proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49178	The word is by MP Meso Omerovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49179	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, honourable representatives of the Ministry of Justice, the VSS and the Prosecutor's Office of the SDPS will support all proposed laws, international agreements and resolutions, i.e. appointments of judicial and prosecutorial officials. Let me go back a little bit and into two laws that I think are somehow in this debate as of this morning ended or left on some ground that may not deserve it. It is about amendments and additions to the Law on Infringements, which we, in the SDPS, consider, above all, that the Institute of Violation which was introduced in 2013 in this Law on Infringements, has experienced its full justification in this practice. The amendments that are important to note that they are significant and are offered in this proposed text of the law are as follows – Only once can the Second-degree Court abolish the decision of the first-degree authority and return it to a re-determination. In the case of a new appeal, the second-degree court is obliged to rule on the second-degree decision, the second-degree court decides. Thus far, the appeal procedure is precise and provides for an increasing efficiency of the procedure. Secondly, the draft law also introduces a new provision on the issue of a general order for bringing, so it issues a court if the person against whom an offence is being conducted or avoids being brought, the order shall be delivered to the police and the conditions under which the accused may be detained in the police for up to 24 hours. Thirdly, the provisions on bringing in suspects of a misdemeanour prior to the initiation of the proceedings have been extended, so that you have reached a solution on detention with the right to appeal within four hours of the judge's decision and obligation to resolve the appeal within four hours. Fourthly, it is important and very important to mention changes in the conclusion of an agreement on the recognition of criminal liability. It is provided for the possibility that, in order to recognise the criminal liability of the accused, a protection measure may be offered for a period shorter than prescribed or that the prescribed safeguard measure is not imposed, so that the fines of the agreement itself cannot be set below the legal minimum. A special area and the safety of road traffic is expected to be implemented in this way by faster payment of fines for violations, and by reducing the number of infringements in courts to about half. The proposed amendments and additions are the result of monitoring the implementation of the 2013 law and infringements and of an even better rationalisation of the cost-reduction process and of higher payment of fines. The 2013 Law on Infringements is a fundamental and reform law with a number of modern solutions, and with these changes and additions it can be said that we also have a solidly regulated area of offense and misdemeanour. As regards the amendment and addition of the second law, the law on the regulation of courts, only one provision has been amended in law by the deadline for the taking over of certain responsibilities of the Ministry of Justice by the VSS was moved from 1 June 2016 to 1 January 2017. The reason is that for now, there are no personal or material conditions for taking over, and it is considered better that the takeover of jurisdiction will be at the beginning of the fiscal year. The competencies that will be taken over are the affairs of the judicial administration, then the acts in the internal arrangement of courts and the proposal of budget funds to take over the archives of the employees carrying out the tasks to be taken over. As far as the proposal is concerned, which is to be chosen, that is to say, to resolve certain holders of judicial and prosecutorial functions, we as the National Assembly in accordance with the laws, are in fact only here to confirm what has come from the competent institutions of VSS, DVT and what the Committee on Justice and forwarded in its decision to us to the MPs. We come to that law that caused the most, I would say, and attention, with the right, in our public, and also in this morning's debate, to the Law to remove the consequences of taking away property from the victims of the Holocaust who do not have living legal heirs. My esteemed colleague, Ivan Bauer, will speak a little more extensively and more specifically about what we in the SDPS consider in this law, but also about some of the amendments that we have submitted to this proposed text of the law, so that it can be improved and fully satisfied, I would say, intensities and wishes of the promoter, which is the Government of the Republic of Serbia. But when we get to this law, we have to go back a little bit. This past is relatively close. In 2009, a conference was held in Prague, as Minister Selakovic said, that adopted the Teresin Famous Declaration. The state of Serbia was not present at the conference at the time of 2009. We were only represented at the ambassador level. So, we're refusing to attend that conference then and we're taking a stand, I'd say, on this issue and on what came next, and that was the adoption of the Teresa Declaration. So, unfortunately, the state of Serbia was among the 46 countries adopted and then signed the Terezin Declaration, from Albania to Uruguay. Only two states were held back, in a way, or they didn't sign it. It was the Vatican and Serbia. So for the state of Serbia then and for its then leadership, in 2009, participation in this conference that was called as a participant was irrelevant. Why? Well, we sent Ambassador Vladimir Varesh, who attended as a guest at this meeting and the only one in that status next to the Vatican. And the declaration adopted does not have a binding character and called for the correction of the consequences of illegal confiscation of property, as well as forced sales that accompanied the persecution of innocent people by Nazis. So I congratulate both the heart and the man who spent his entire political life fighting for anti-fascist ideas and all that retrograde government of the Republic of Serbia that offered to us today in front of parliament and MPs a law like this, because if there was no law, the rights of Jews to return property would be ignored, and you will agree, this could then be interpreted as a historic revisionism that is trying to rehabilitate and some quaslins. However, the legal act should mitigate the consequences of the regulation on the belonging of Jewish property to Serbia, signed in 1942 by Ministerial Council President Milan Nedic, therefore the president of the then-Kvislin government. But today, with this law and after the adoption of this law, which SDPS MPs will vote for, we will have some sort of schizophrenic situation. Why? We have on one side a court in Belgrade, a famous Supreme Court, which is considering a request for rehabilitation, none other than the same man who signed that shameful regulation, Milan Nedic, and should soon be on the agenda, we saw, the hearing began on Monday. So, the court needs to consider, be careful, please, whether Nedić will return the deprived civil rights, and many rehabilitated ones, we know what is next, the return of property, that is the next step, and on the other hand, the Agency for the Restitution of Jewish municipalities should return the property that was taken away from the Jews under Nedic's regulation. If the court decides, which I do not believe, to rehabilitate Milan Nedic, we would indeed find ourselves in the paradoxical, not to say a harsh word, when the situation is, that the same government body – the Agency for Restitution is also addressing the requirements for the return of property from one side Milan Nedic and his descendants, but also to return the property of Jews violently taken away by his signature. What I certainly know, that the man who heads the Agency for Restitution, Strahinja Sekulić, will refuse to sign any solution that will return some property to the descendants of Milan Nedic. I can tell you that with responsibility, because I've known the Scarecrow for decades. (Alexander Martinovic, from the city: Theme. The theme is to restore property to those who served the Quislins, who someone is trying to put in the same basket with the victims you were responsible for or killed directly and personally. Let's move on. To get back to what might help us solve this big problem, I'll just remind you how it all started. After the April war in 1941, the general jurisdiction of Jewish property was taken over by the German military administration in Serbia. It formed the administration of Jewish immovableities, which then listed all the property, so houses, agricultural building land, etc., and by decision of 22 July 1941 it started and sold at privileged prices, at the beginning and most foxes to the breakfasts and slightly less German business and military representatives in Serbia. The sales money was poured into special accounts opened in a banking company, then it turned out to be a Deutsche Bank in Belgrade. In August 1942, the Germans decided to hand over the rest of the unsold Jewish immovableities to the Government of Milan Nedic for use, in return to increase the amount the government owed in the name of the war damage committed during the April war. Nedic's government accepted the offer and already adopted a regulation on the belonging of Jews in Serbia on 28 August 1942. The right to dispose and administration of Jewish immovable property was assumed by the then Serbian Finance Ministry, which then transferred to the state mortgage bank, which is the property and sold to Nedic's associates and sympathisers on a transparent so-called. the auctions, and the money received, was recorded in favour of the current account bearing the name – the administrative headquarters of the Jewish immovable property. A special account to which the money was then transferred under the designation of war damage, but within that account every sale was recorded under the name and last name of the rightful owner, therefore, the Jew, although in the then land books under the name of the owner stood only – Serbia. If all the money they received in the name of war damage was put on one pile, there would be not enough effective control, and this is how internal financial control was done among the Germans. This is why it is very easy today to check who is the real owner, because Bank Fryeren, through which all payments went, had 70% of those accounts preserved by names and last names and their addresses, pedantic and precise Germans, would all say. Even though someone bought real estate from the Serbian state at the time, it is very easy to check whether the real owner is actually a Jew whose property has been taken away. Since most of the assets close to Nedic's government were bought in 1942 and 1943 nationalised, it could have happened, that's what you, a colleague of Martinovic, do not understand, that the heirs of Milan Nedic, those who, in a debauchery, have come to the property, are now searching as the property of their ancestors, whether he is a grandfather or a father. So the state of Serbia is asked to return the immovableity purchased under wicked conditions. Such demands as concerns the immovableity purchased in 1942 and 1943 were at our great happiness set at the Agency for Restitution. This very immovableity included, among other things, this bill to remove the consequences of the withdrawal of Holocaust victims who do not have living heirs. For all of this, it is worth reminding myself, and I will finish my presentation, as the president of the Quislin government Milan Nedic said on 9 September 1941. I will quote just one of his words: “I know only one solution for Jews and so on. A Jewish question. Until then, while a Jew in Serbia or while he can speak to Serbs or while Serbs can mourn him, there will be no peace in Serbia." So, the man directly did everything that was important at that moment, to implement the policies of Nazi Germany and the Third Reich. There are also incontrovertible facts of co-operation in all of this. I'll just mention two things: a regulation on belonging to Jewish property in Serbia published in the official newspaper, which recognises the existence of a holocaust as a defacto and dejour. Secondly, assets sold to Nedic's associates and sympathisers were previously illegally transferred to the property of the Serbian state. It is unacceptable for the burden of war damage to be paid by the property of Serbian citizens, especially those who suffered the most seriously in the war, and that is why we will support and vote in favour of this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49180	Thank you. The word has been issued by MP Vesna Martinovic, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49181	Thank you. I'm going to start today's address from the bill of law which, in a civilized and human sense, I consider the most important, which is the bill to remove the consequences of the confiscation of property to victims of holocausts. At the very beginning, I would like to stress that the DS will also vote to pass this law. In a particular case, it is not just about our international commitment, but it is about one sincere, human expression of understanding and compassion for victims, although we are aware that by passing this law we cannot fully remove all the consequences, but that the consequences can be mitigated it is certainly true and this is one way to do so. I sincerely hope that, under this law and with the financial support of the Republic of Serbia, all property will be returned to the Jewish municipalities, therefore property without legal heirs, that the synagogues, where they exist and are in very poor condition, will be returned to their original purpose or at least to some appropriate purpose, that a number of Jewish cemeteries will in future be the subject of continued joint concern and that we will succeed in our joint efforts to preserve the memories of the victims of the Holocaust. As regards the draft law on infringements, I would like to point out that the DS is completely inadmissible to treatment damaged in the infringement procedure, in a situation where there is a possibility of reaching an agreement on the recognition of the infringement, because the government has provided for the damaged and his proxies, if he has it, to be fully exempt from delivering a decision by the criminal court on the rejection, refusal or adoption of the agreement, and consequently, what is not delivered to this is neither possible nor sought, the damaged and his pro-guinal authority is denied the right to appeal against the ruling of the recognition agreement. I believe that this violates the fundamental rights damaged in the infringement proceedings, because who, if not damaged, should know the fate of the proposed plea agreement and who, if not damaged, should have the right to appeal in a situation where a plea agreement was adopted by a criminal court. The infringement procedure, it is clear, mainly protects the general interest and very often happens that we do not have any direct damage in the infringement procedure, but because in a very small number of proceedings there is damage, I believe that respect for the fundamental rights is necessary in every procedure, and also in the criminal proceedings, because the public interest is not only the punishment of the offender, but the public interest is respect and adequate position damaged in the infringement procedure, because, as the name itself tells him, the person whose right or interest is injured or threatened by an offence, so that the minimum of what he needs to be guaranteed by law is to be informed of the course of the infringement procedure and that he has the right to lodge an appeal in the event of a verdict which he considers not to be in the right of protection and the exercise of his rights and interests. I especially note this because it's not just traffic violations. Violations affect many areas of life and work of each and every one of us. What could be significant for the injured is labour and labour violations, in the fields of health and social protection, education, public security, administration. By repealing the right of damage to be delivered to the Government by a decision on an agreement on the recognition of the offence, it is potentially preventing the government from exercising its rights in other proceedings, such as those of the Government. a litigation procedure, since any judgment adopting the agreement contains advertising of the accused guilty and is given the appropriate punishment, which would significantly contribute to and facilitate the damage to the exercise of the right before other competent authorities. The government has narrowed down the damage to the position of a mere witness who comes to court, says what he has and leaves without having any information and the possibility of responding in that process that ends with a plea agreement, which directly damages him. This, of course, does not comply with Article 36. A constitution which guarantees the right to appeal or another remedy against a decision which decides on a right, obligation or a law-based interest, and I sincerely hope that the Government will have this unconstitution in mind when deciding on the amendments, that is to say, when considering the amendments. Speaking of the Constitution, we believe that, contrary to the Constitution and the proposal to not allow the punished person, who has not previously paid the fine or the costs of the procedure, to issue a driver's license or traffic licence, as well as to check out the vehicle, as this directly endangers property rights, labour rights, freedom of movement, which are covered by the Constitution. A state that has no capacity to execute decisions made by its authorities does not have the right to restrict, condition, not to say, blackmail the citizens of its country. There is an executive procedure for the execution of court decisions, a forced collection. A month and a half ago, in this room, a new law on enforcement and security was passed. They were full of praise about how the law would contribute to the effective and rapid collection of claims, including fines by court decisions. This kind of proposal basically means that we don't trust the state, we don't trust a court that acts, public executioners, and we don't believe that they're capable of effectively carrying out a forced charge. In addition to the forced payment, I know that it is known, there is a possibility of replacing unpaid fines for the sentence of imprisonment or for working in the public interest. Is this proposal, which restricts the issuing of driver's licenses, traffic licences, etc., practically recommending that there is no capacity for the replacement of unpaid fines by prison or public interest, which would be truly devastating? The state should stimulate citizens to pay fines, to facilitate their payment methods, not to introduce a completely unacceptable system. Because when you introduce a system like this where you say -- there's no driver's license until a fine is paid, for any offence, not traffic, but any one, then the question is why citizens don't have the right to say then to the state -- well, there's no payment of fine until I get my pensions taken away, pay back the backs and so on. This type of transge-fange relationship in implementing decisions by the state authorities, which is being issued by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is at least unserious. By introducing some additional sanctions for non-payment of fines, you favour one type of criminal penalty against other penalties. So if someone doesn't pay the fine, they don't get a driver's license until they pay the fine. But if he avoids going to a prison sentence or if he avoids working in the public interest, he does not suffer that kind of sanctions. That's why I'm very interested, although I can't hear the answer right now, what was the reason why some kind of sanctions were favored in relation to other sanctions that were also prescribed in the Law of Infringement? For the very end, when we talk about the Law on Court Orders, the Government confirmed that it specialises in breaking the deadlines it has set for itself, because, in December of the month, so, just over a month ago, in this Assembly, in this room, we have already worked and discussed the amendment of the Law on Court Order. Then perhaps there was an opportunity to extend the time limit that was clearly, unreal, and then - go on. I'm surprised that it wasn't known then that they didn't exist, I don't know how the explanation stated, the personal and material conditions for assuming jurisdiction, so it was clear a month ago and what happened in the meantime, and suddenly it became clear, and it wasn't clear a month ago? It is surprising that it was unclear that, for example, the fiscal year began on January 1st. That was a month ago. So there are no justifiable circumstances why the Law on the Order of Courts, which, I repeat, has once been changed in this room just over a month ago, is now changing again. But that's how it happens when you dream too much and the reality is little known. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49182	I thank you, Mrs. Martinovic. The word is Dr. Suleyman Ugljanin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49183	The Honorable Chairman, the respected representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the distinguished representatives of the High Council of the judiciary and the Council of Prosecutors, will speak today as president of the minority parliamentary group in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. First of all, I would like to refer to the law, namely the bill to remove the consequences of the confiscation of property to the victims of the Holocaust who do not have living legal heirs. I am very happy that a law like this has come to order in our congregation. In fact, it's about one thing, I'm free to say, a noble and human act. Because none of us today can tolerate anyone in the world enjoying committed crime and genocide, can use any property in a way if they've done genocide before. After my colleague Nedja Jovanovic's speech, which was very detailed, exhaustive and reasoned on this subject, even explaining three etemological concepts about this crime and genocide, I think any other speech on this topic would defile the value of the speech he gave us, and I thank Mr Neđa Jovanovic for this speech. As a legitimate representative of the Bosniaks from Sancak, as a Bosniak, as a human, I must express hope that, as a state, we, as a Serbian Parliament, will, in the next session, be taught this proposal to remove the consequences of the confiscation of property to the victims of Holocaust who do not have legal heirs, in the same way as putting the resolution on the agenda – the adoption of the Srebrenica genocide resolution. I think that as a state, we are obliged to do this, because of the fact that it happened in our neighborhood, because here I represent Bosniaks who are victims of genocide and because of one very important fact, that in 2007, the International Court of Justice found our country guilty of not preventing the crime of genocide and for not arresting and handing over to the International Court of Justice in The Hague the perpetrators of genocide. By adopting this resolution, its provisions speak of the order of moves, this is the whole programme, we will achieve a very important effect – we will remove responsibility from the state of Serbia and all other generations born in this country for genocide that someone has committed on their behalf. In this way, we will create preconditions for restoring international trust and interstate co-operation in the region. As far as this agenda is concerned, we today on the agenda of this session, together and yesterday and today, next to this point I was talking about, we still have 23 points. The question arises – given the state of play on the ground, in terms of the application of these laws, i.e. the violation of these laws, the question is, what is the meaning of the adoption of new laws, decisions or amendments, if even existing laws are not applied in practice or are being violated? We make laws as if we're the most real state in the world, and we work and live in a very centralized state, where central authorities make laws... .
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49184	Please, Mr. Ugljanin, just get back on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49185	This is the topic. This is the topic because we have, Mr. Becic...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49186	The MPs resent you not talking about the subject, and I would ask you to return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49187	Please don't interrupt me. I'm talking about the subject. The theme is that we insist that all our amendments and all our discussions go in terms of creating preconditions to apply laws on the ground, not just laws are passed. Because what good would it do me if the world's best doctor wrote us a prescription and we keep that recipe in our pocket? We wouldn't get better. If you don't buy drugs and if you don't follow that direction, then many epidemics would destroy our country. And so are the laws. If on the ground we have representatives of the state authorities from the judiciary, from the police, and inspectors as hawks of all the ruling parties, not only those who work in principle – the law is me and if they act on the principle that they treat the law as a Swedish table, what I like to do, and what I don't like, I won't do, in such a situation I think it's pointless to pass any law. We can't change this situation by passing new laws. As I speak, at the same time I was elected directly in the direct elections and as president of the Bosniak National Council, i.e. The highest representative body of the minority Bosniak self-government in this country. Let's take that law, minority law violates the municipalities. Let's go to Novi Pazar, they're insolently breaking that law. They do not pay the funds, do not consult the National Council, although the law obliges them, do not consult when proposing and appointing representatives in schools. Instead of allowing, as envisaged, the law requires minorities to have their own voice in their native language, however, although for nine years this TV in Novi Pazar was declared particularly important for Bosniaks, and the minister even decided at a meeting with the senior minority representatives to bow down, to give in to the minority, it was sold, or those from verticals, with the minister in Belgrade, and those by the horizon in Novi Pazar, of the municipal couples sold it to themselves. Of municipal couples, breaking laws. That's what I'm talking about. They gave some severances and got rid of 51 workers and bought 90,000 televisions to be paid off by municipal money. What about the law here? We have other laws. When we talk about who can help citizens that these laws that we make today can enjoy the benefits of the law on the ground, I ask you who it is? I therefore believe that in terms of the adoption of these laws, we need to adopt mechanisms, we bring mechanisms to enable citizens to enjoy the benefits of these laws on the ground. Citizens elect us MPs, we have ministers and presidents of municipalities. I was everything, and the president of the municipality, and the minister, and the MP. What did we have? We had since 12 April 2007, when Mirz Radonjica was killed in Novi Pazar near Djurdje's pillars. To this day, we've used every legal opportunity, no one knows what's wrong with him. Also, we have a case that Harun Alic was killed in Novi Pazar, a friend of mine, in broad daylight. We've examined all the legal possibilities, we're going through the courts, but there's still no solution. We have the murdered Suad Sutkovic, also in broad daylight. We have acted according to the law and they say – go, complain to the court. We have the murder of Enes Idinovic, the same thing. It's been almost, these years, these last three or four years. So I was trying to do something then and I couldn't do anything. Even now as an MP, he cannot get an adequate answer to questions raised on these issues. We're asking one question, and we're comfortable with the other in this congregation. So we have to build mechanisms, we have to build a legal state that works. We have a case for you all known, we've been asking a question here for years, and three public protests have been in Novi Pazar for the armed gang's incursion into the official premises, where the principle of home integrity has been violated as the basic, fundamental constitutional principle of the Republic of Serbia. There's no investigation until today. To date, I cannot get an answer, nor can my colleague Enis Imamovic, who has been asking here from the assembly pay phone even the minister's question. There's no answer. What's the message to the citizens if I, as a former minister, were shot at by a minister and his associates in my office and nothing at all? What's the message to the citizens? We have to have mechanisms to sort things out. We have other cases. Amir Stanovranin's case. The young man, on a national and religious basis, has been harassed in a Nis prison. I was interested in what happened as a minister, and MPs were interested in the Serbian Parliament. Their family came to me and to my messengers and told us – please don't take any more interest in him, the more interested you are, the more they beat him, the more he can't take it. Who do we complain to? Who should the people complain to? It's not under the law to be beaten by people in prison, but beaten by them. Furthermore, the Hamid Tutic case. Here's the paper, Hamid Tutic, on January 16th last year, by order of a New Market judge, the entire cordon police attacked the village of Pore and occupied. Here, it says they're looking for money, guns, drugs, computers. After that, when the whole village was terrified, nothing was found. I was at the minister's for the family's request. Legally, people couldn't protect themselves. What does the minister say? The minister says - Mr. Imamovic, it's not possible, we'll solve it, it's a crime. And when I gave him this paper and when he saw the name of Judge Adil Bibic, he said, "I'm sorry, buddy, it's your inter-bossing thing." He's a Bosniak and it's some inner conflict of yours. That's not how you answer to an MP. We have other cases, that one cop...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49188	Please, Mr. carbonine...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49189	I'm asking you to apply the law on the ground, how can I...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49190	You didn't say the name of the minister, even though it happened during the previous governments. I'm asking you to get back on the subject. The MPs resent the right, because you don't talk about the subject for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49191	I'm only talking about the subject. I'm interested in one thing...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49192	Please, I understand that you want and that the need is now...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49193	Mr. Becic, you speak from that pay phone like you're in Sweden, Austria, in a country that has a system. In the field, I'm telling you about the field, it doesn't work what we adopt here. Do you know that? You're setting an example of one, let's see, there's the D.A.'s representatives, who's to complain about a parent or a citizen whom a police officer stops, one cop at one stop gives him three criminal charges? Three judges and all three betray him, just for one stop. And the minister of justice says, "Well, that doesn't make sense." That's the answer. I think we need to build mechanisms to have someone these people complain to. If they don't have anyone to complain to, it's pointless to pass the law. We have another thing. One of the points concerns the Law of Infringement, along with this whole set of judicial laws. I claim, as a man who for 25 years in this business, who fights through the institutions of the system, until the redefinition process for changes in the political system of Serbia is completed, until the lustration of all police officers and judges so far in the public sector and until new young people who have not been compromised are hired, we will only make laws in vain, and they will break them wherever they arrive. Especially those who have support from Belgrade. So, when we hire young uncompromised people, who came with fresh knowledge from college, and when after that lustration that will be a reminder to them that if they are wronged that they will be lustrated, and when we agree on the national structure in the environments where minorities live, we will be a happy European state, rich and economically strong and we will have satisfied citizens. Everything else is a waste of time. Here we have another one, according to the tenth place, a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the NATO Organisation for Support and Purchase, etc. As a party, for 25 years we have been in favour of European and Euro-Atlantic integration and in the voting day we will vote in favour of this legislation to confirm the NATO Pact agreement. Furthermore, we will also vote in favour of this bill to remove the consequences of confiscation of property to the victims of the Holocaust, but I argue that first of all, I am telling you again, if we are serious and if we want the state, the legal state of Serbia, based on the rule of law, legal certainty, equality before the law, we need to create conditions for a citizen to have someone to complain to. It increases the pain of the facts, not only are they damaged, but the pain increases the fact that they have no one to complain to. I wonder, why would the Bosniaks go out and vote for some of their Bosniak representatives or any other minority, if these MPs, municipal presidents, councilors or even Bosniak or minority ministers can't and have no one to turn to to remove the consequences and suffering of their citizens? I therefore propose to my colleagues in the Serbian Parliament, especially Mr Babic, to gather us together, to hurry up with the redefine of Serbia's political system, to introduce the middle level of government in all areas that can be defined as some regions or in a different way, to adopt an action plan for minorities for Chapter 23, but an action plan in which minorities participate, not those who ignore minorities, and to bring the national structure into line in all areas where minorities live in the Republic of Serbia. Such a Serbia will be perspective, economically developed, peaceful, will have good neighbours and minorities will serve as a bridge of co-operation with neighbours, not as a problem. It is our desire to build such a Serbia, and to certainly build in Serbia a third, or middle level of government for Sandzak, because we are far from Belgrade. We are far from Belgrade and all environments must have a middle level of government to be a richer environment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49194	Mr. Ugljanin, you've been here the whole time talking about some events during the former governments, and I wish that, as a minister, you and your fellow ministers were solving these issues, and now you're not giving the impression that this is happening during the current government. Thank you. (Suleyman Ugljanin, from the scene: you're wrong, sir.) This was at the time of Minister Selakovic. You mentioned your ministerial function very clearly and that you acted as Minister at the time, and you were not minister during this government. Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49195	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today is Wednesday, questions are being asked some other days. I'm advertising members 106th and 107th. Rules of Procedure. I believe that the speaker did not adhere to the subject of the agenda, one, and number two, that the dignity of the National Assembly and all the MPs who make up this convocation of the National Assembly has been injured, and perhaps the people's messengers from the past are called together, and, indeed, this is the way the reputation and the messengers who will come after us. I realize that the election campaign, I understand everything, but if someone says that the police attacked the village, or maybe I didn't hear it right, maybe they attacked white, or they asked for white and attacked the village, I didn't understand, if someone said the police attacked the village, that spreads false news. I am not familiar with the fact that police are anywhere in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, especially not in the last 12, 13, 14, 15, 16 years, attacked any village. The fact is that in this democratic time, a more frequent village is attacking the police than the police village, i.e. that citizens are more often harassed by police than by the police, which it does to the citizens. I understand the grief and pain of a lost chair. I understand, when you have a chair, everything is fine, human rights are very large, Belgrade is very close to New Pazar, but when you lose your chair, then your human rights are nothing, then Belgrade is far away, then no one understands you. I understand the grief and pain of a lost chair, but I think this is too much. I'm asking you to vote in voting day on this injury to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49196	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. I don't think I broke the Rules of Procedure because I tried several times to get Mr. Carbonin back to discuss the subject and get him back on the agenda, but you saw that I didn't have any success, so the only option was to punish Mr. Ugljanin, according to the Rules of Procedure, but I didn't want to resort to these criminal measures in this debate today. Thank you. Do you want the Assembly to declare themselves on Voting Day? (Yes) Thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Dr. Suleyman Ugljanin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49197	Article 106, for throwing and distracting speech while I was speaking. Then, normally, it confuses a man. It's obvious, I'm showing the paper, I can give it to you, that it was...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49198	Mr. Ugljanin, I'm not going to let you use the breach of the Rules of Procedure as a replica, especially in this case, the President, so please. I can only ask you if you want the Parliament in voting day to plead? (No) Thank you. The word has the mandated representative of the parliamentary group, MP Mr Zlata Djeric. Here you go, Mrs. Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49199	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, are making a joke, the respected representatives of the Jewish community, whom I know you are closely monitoring today's plenary session. I will especially deal in this set of laws with the bill to remove the consequences of the confiscation of property to Holocaust victims who do not have living legal heirs. In his opening presentation, Mr. Selakovic listed many representatives, members of the Jewish community who had their lives, their actions and their creations tied to Serbia and Serbian culture, including composer Enrika Joseph, whom I would like to quote very much, and I now believe that today is the moment to mention it and tell one truth that he gave in his interview. When asked by journalists how he experiences God, Mr Enrico Joseph said – God is a higher cosmic justice that is always established. The passing of this law is a modest attempt, and a major step by the Serbian state to establish a higher cosmic justice in the widespread injustice of the Jews' suffering in the last century. In fact, we all know, we also talked about the etemological significance of the word “holocaust. ” That is the Greek word, Greek origin, meaning "totally burned". Even Jews have a similar word in their language, “olam potassium, ” and they speak of the destruction of fire. Through politics, through dealing with these problems, by developing its own time of terrible and monstrous anti-Semitism policy, this word has been given special meaning in world history, and we as a people know what it means and what the deaths of six million Jews were in World War II. Of course, we've always had great relationships and understanding with this brotherly people. We had, unfortunately, a similar fate sometimes, and from there, our saboteurism that has always bound us and which has made us bound by even that Declaration in Teresa in 2009, which we signed as one of 49 countries, that this is exactly the law we are about to pass, so it has brought us back together and made us closer and more solid. Through culture, through history, through art, the question of the loss of Jews, which is truly inconspicuous and enormous in civilization terms, there have been various interpretations and we remember the film "Pianist", "Sofia's Choice", "The Garden of Vince Contini", and Bertoluchi's "The 20th Century", but I think that lately we have been particularly impressed by the film "Shindler's List", although they are all made according to true events, unfortunately according to true events, with some artistic colour. The film "Shindler's List" in which I will remind you of the final scenes of the film, when 1,100 Jews spent a terrible time on the tracks at dawn on May 9, 1945. A Russian officer approaches them on horseback, and they ask him, "Is there any surviving Jew in Poland?" His silent expression gives a clear answer, and then they ask him, "Where shall we go now?" They have an answer – don't go east, that's for sure, they hate you there, and then a shorter break tells them honestly – I wouldn't go west if I were you. The scene in the film represents one turning point in Jewish history. The Jews then gained strength, from this they need to be examples of an example from which we can learn a lot, to print Israel, in 1948 they made their country headed by Ben-Guyron, their first prime minister, otherwise Ben-Gurian's symbolic name in translation means - the son of a young lion and to bring out that victory and one part to go to America. Today, 83% of the total population live in America and Israel, and something in other countries of the world. The number of victims and the need to mark it is indeed something that needs to be a world-wide reminder, that one policy that has experienced its crown in Naziism, which began as anti-Semitism, can have fatal consequences for humanity and that such a policy must always be recognized in the beginning, when it is almost harmless, when it almost caressed through the human race and then at the beginning it is prevented, because the situation it can take, to take, to realize a foolish policy, we have seen how it ends. That's when the whole world burned. We today have an obligation that, as the state in which the Jews lived, the victims who had their property, I said at the beginning, they had left significant actions, fateful actions, to return the debt to the victims of the Holocaust to civilization. In the name of this, we are passing this law, and on behalf of that, I believe that all MPs in this House will support the adoption of this law, because it is a serious civilization step. About 40,000 Jews lived in the territory of the then-Yugoslavia. In Serbia, it lived most, most specifically in Belgrade, where it suffered the most. Yugoslavia has lost about 60% of the Jews. It is a good example of the state of Denmark, which, despite being close to the Baltic countries that have indeed managed to lose a large number of members of the Jewish community, in a terrible holocaust, the state of Denmark has lost only 1%. An example of which I would like to draw attention after an attack on the synagogue in Denmark where a member of the Jewish community was killed, Prime Minister Netanyahu urged all Jews to move to Israel. Danish Prime Minister Hela Thorning Schmidt urged her countrymen of Danish Jews not to accept Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's invitation to mass migration to Israel and pointed out that they needed Denmark and that the country without Jews would not be the same. We wouldn't be the same without the Jewish community, said Thorny Schmidt, the day after the Copenhagen attack. She said that the preliminary investigation showed that the attacker killed by the Danish police acted on his own and that there was no indication that he was part of some broader terrorist group. The Jewish community has been in Denmark for centuries. Denmark is her home and she is part of Danish society. The Danish Jews thanked Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu for giving them his hand, but he will not accept his invitation to emigrate to Israel, a spokesman said, we are very grateful for this attention. We are Danes, we are Danish Jews, and we will not go to Israel for violence, if we leave it will be some other reason. So it's a good and desirable example of how multi-conventional and multi-ethnic communities can survive, and I think we're one of the countries that's always been an example of good with life with other communities. I'm sure the Jewish community appreciates that. What I want to point out is that the Serbian people throughout history have always had friendly feelings for members of the Jewish community and that at the time of the occupation, Serbs themselves faced the threat of their biological survival did their utmost to preserve the lives of their Jewish neighbors. Therefore, given the history of the Serbian people's suffering, especially in the 20th century when we were literally on the verge of biological extinction and alone, I believe that it is absolutely at the site of the formulations in Article 2. The bill, which I quote, has been used in this law by confiscation, return and so on, have to be interpreted exclusively as expressing compassion, solidarity and understanding of the Republic of Serbia for the suffering of the Jewish people on its territory during the hostile occupation from 6 April 1941 to 9 May 1945, denying any responsibility of the Republic of Serbia for the terrible suffering and damage inflicted on victims of Holocaust and other victims of Nazism on its territory under the conditions of enemy occupation. Given the traditional friendly feelings between our peoples and the good relationship of the Republic of Serbia with Israel, it is somewhat surprising, however, that a certain amount of inertness we have shown so far and why the European Commission criticised us in the report on the progress of the Republic of Serbia in 2014 in establishing insufficient activity regarding the adoption of this law. The declaration that we have committed to initiate the procedure for the return of victims of holocausts, signed in 2009, and the general procedure for restitution in the Republic of Serbia was initiated in 2011 by the adoption of the Law on the return of seized property and compensation. To remind myself that this law regulates the conditions, the way and the return procedure of the seized property in a natural form where it is possible and the cash compensation for the seized property where there are no objective conditions for its physical return. Also, our national programme for the adoption of EU legal flows between 2014 and 2018 provides for a law that will remove the consequences of the confiscation of property to victims of holocausts and other victims of fascism in the territory of the Republic of Serbia that do not have living heirs. Finally, we have before us a bill that largely relies on a solution to the Law on Restitution and that is something that is certainly a great victory and a great step in this government and a good policy of its international relations. In particular, the bill provides for what is extremely good that the asset-holder who has acquired the right of property after the possession of the property in accordance with the law remains the owner and auctioner of things and that his acquired rights must not be violated, which is absolutely on the line with the principle of legal certainty and the protection of the lifeguard. In the Law on Restitution in such cases, there is an institution of compensation, so I am only interested in whether the financial support of the Republic of Serbia to the Union of the Jewish Municipality of Serbia is provided for by the provisions of Article 9 is a substitute for this institute. It is absolutely necessary, in accordance with the declared public principle, that the funds of the Jewish municipality, i.e. the association of municipalities, be made available by means of property or financial support by the State for the purpose of establishing the law with regular public notice. It is also correct that a solution that requires all state authorities and organisations, regardless of the level of government, to issue, within 30 days, for the purpose of carrying out this procedure, all necessary documentation and data available to them. So that would make the law significantly more effective. From the point of view of fairness, it is logical that the acquisition of assets and the realization of income in the form of financial support under this law is not taxed, nor is it burdened with administrative and judicial fees and the like, but it is therefore also a fair solution that the Jewish municipality, i.e. the alliance, becomes an obligation to pay taxes on returned assets, as well as to pay other types of taxes on the achievement of income from assets, i.e. money. The law also corrects the case when a surviving heir to such property subsequently appears, the Jewish municipality is obliged to transfer to him, after establishing its properties as a legitimate heir, property in accordance with its share in accordance with the provisions of the law governing the succession. It was left for 30 days, with the possibility of judicial intervention. In the event of a lease on such property, it is prescribed that the tenant will be protected by the fact that if, of course, I wish, he will be able to maintain his lease rights and for the next three years under conditions he had previously spoken to the Jewish municipality. I have to ask a question, despite the obvious desire to protect a security tenant, whether such a solution is adequate and whether it is a restriction on the owner's freedom to dispose of property, especially given the fact that the heir can be a person of a very shorter age. As for the purposes of which the funds can be channelled, in addition to a declaration of the intended objectives, relating to the design of all the facts that are being brought forward, which led to the holocaust and, of course, the desire to never forget it, thus never again in the history of humanity and to be part of the collective memory of all mankind, and not only of the Jewish communities, I think it is a very good solution to single out one part of these funds for the financing of education and scholarship of our students, young talents and scientists, and one part for humanitarian purposes in the Republic of Serbia. In this regard, the Committee on Income Management Control is also established, and I think it is an extremely good solution for the government of the Republic of Serbia to appoint the chairman of that committee and that the other members are given by representatives of the Jewish community. The Union of Jewish municipalities undertakes to make up by 15 January each calendar year a joint annual revenue management programme for the current calendar year and to deliver it to the Committee after adoption, another guarantee of transparency in the management of revenues from this property and funds of the Republic of Serbia. The Republic of Serbia reserves the right to suspend the annual payment of financial support unless the Committee adopts a six-month report on the management of the Alliance, another good mechanism providing home, responsible business and management of this property. So, this is the great civilizational step of this government, calling this assembly together, and I think we have reason to be proud that this law, with all the difficulties that follow the application of this law and its implementation in practice, is to be proud that we participated in its adoption. So what I want to point out is that with the Jews, the Jewish community and those who are in Serbia and those who are in Israel and beyond, we will primarily maintain good business ties, because this is in the interest of common progress. On that behalf, Lehitraot, I welcome first of all the representatives of the Jewish community and I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49200	Thank you, Mrs. Djeric. The word has an authorised representative of the SNS, Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49201	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, right at the beginning, let me say that in the voting day, the SNS parliamentary group will support all the draft laws and proposals for other decisions that are within this item of the agenda. As for the draft law on the removal of property from the victims of holocausts who do not have living heirs, it seems to me that this bill in the National Assembly today has caused the greatest attention of the MPs. Probably caused the public's greatest attention. With some parts of my esteemed colleagues from other parliamentary groups, I can fully agree. With some other parts, I can't but I think that the debate in the National Assembly is also serving to cross opinions and to reach the best possible solution by exchanging arguments. The SNS parliamentary group believes that the bill relating to the compensation of Holocaust victims who do not have living heirs is one civilizational and democratic fluid. It's not just a formal obligation that stems from what's called the so-called Teresin declarations since 2009. This is one sign of solidarity with members of the Jewish people who, along with the Serbian people, Russian people and Polish people and of course with the Roma people, were the greatest victims of World War II. As an SNS MP, I would like to point out another fact that is, I think, important to the Republic of Serbia at a time when it is fighting for its sovereignty and territorial integrity in Kosovo and Metohija, which is the fact that the Jewish state of Israel has not recognised independence so-called independence. "Republics of Kosovo" and I think it shows how much Israel respects the Republic of Serbia and how much we as Serbs and we as Serbia are more obliged to pass one such law. When it comes to holocaust, my esteemed colleague Neđo Jovanovic, we also talked about it at the session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, he talked about it today. So the holocaust is originally the ancient Greek word Holocaust literally means completely burned. It is the custom of some ancient peoples, above all the ancient Greeks and Romans, to offer the so-called The burnt offerings to their gods. Later, Jews introduced the practice. They usually burned the lamb as a sacrifice to Yahweh, or to their god for the redemption of sins. The original Jewish word referring to the Holocaust is a show and literally means trouble, suffering, and there is no doubt that during World War II, the Jewish people survived great sufferings throughout occupied Europe, as well as in occupied Serbia. The holocaust term as an expression that implies genocide and systematic extermination of Jews during World War II in countries occupied by the Germans, he restored and used the political and philosophical meaning of Nobel Prize for Literature Eli Vizell. So there is no doubt that Jews during World War II and occupied Serbia were exposed to the holocaust, genocide, extermination, take-off to concentration camps, both in Serbia's territory and other Nazi German-controlled sites. What I cannot agree with, and I hope that no one will misread me for it, is that the Serbian people participated in any way in the Holocaust of the Jews in the Republic of Serbia, or in what was called Serbia between 1941 and 1944. In a formal legal sense, Serbia did not exist in World War II. In a formal legal sense, there was a occupied Kingdom of Yugoslavia, which had its legal government in London, the legal head of state, King Peter II Karadjordjevic, and which had its own legal army and its military minister, who was Minister of the Government Slobodan Jovanovic, mentioned this morning by Minister Nikola Selakovic, General Draž Mihajlovic. That's the historical fact, no matter how ideologically painful it is now. When it comes to one thing that has intrigued the Serbian public in the last few days, the issue of rehabilitation of Milan Nedic, I see that today some colleagues have little and no use for the subject. We in the SNS believe that, first of all, this is a matter for the court. Therefore, the court will decide whether there are conditions for the rehabilitation of General Milan Nedic or not. My well-intentioned and collegiate advice to all colleagues who are trying to potentiate this issue in the National Assembly is not to do so, to leave it to the competent court to decide whether the conditions for the rehabilitation of Milan Nedic are met or not. What I think, and let it be my personal impression, is that Serbian history in World War II is slightly simplified and depicted in black and white. In a letter to former British Prime Minister Winston Churchill, his foreign minister, Anthony Idn in 1944, on the report by Ficro McClane in Yugoslavia, who was otherwise head of the British Allied Mission at the Supreme Staff of Josip Broz Tito, says one of the following sentences – to McClane Tito was completely white, and Draža Mihajlovic is completely black, it seems to me that gray, Anthony Eden, in the Balkans, is the most common. I think that gray color is kind of the most common in Serbia or what was called Serbia during World War II. I need to draw attention to a historical fact. So Serbia formally did not exist. There was one part of the occupied Kingdom of Yugoslavia, which was under greater or less control first of all by the Council of Commissioner Milan Acimovic, and since 29 August so-called The governments of General Milan Nedic's national rescue. What's the problem, I don't know if all my colleagues will agree with me, but I think it's a problem, i.e. it's one thesis that has been created for decades in the communist Yugoslavia, it is that there is a complete sign of equality between, for example, Usta Pavelic and General Milan Nedic or General Draja Mihajlovic. Someone needed to establish artificial symmetry between the terrible genocide that took place in the Independent State of Croatia and the fact that some Serbian hotheads did something that was contrary to humanity, right, humanity, Christian morality. But what happened in the independent state of Croatia, therefore, mass slaughter of Serbs, Jews, Roma, hundreds of thousands of innocent people killed, is done in this so-called so-called "Serbs". Nedic's Serbia, I think, did not happen. Belgrade was declared, and there is Mr. Nedjo Jovanovic absolutely right, Belgrade was declared by the Germans in 1942 to be the city "Jedne Fry", free of Jews, but the dominant role in the extermination of Jews was played by Germans, German occupiers. The Germans held camp at the Old Fair, not Milan Nedic. The German commander managed Banjaca, not Milan Nedic, and not even the infamous Drago Jovanovic, Germans. The Germans had that special vehicle, that gas chamber at four points that passed through Belgrade, not Milan Nedic. Was Milan Nedic a convinced fascist? I personally don't think so. Milan Nedic refused, although the Germans asked him to do so, even though symbolically sending a number of soldiers to the eastern front, no Serb soldier under the Serbian tricolor fought on the eastern front against the Red Army, even though Milan Nedic was a convinced anti-communist and anti-boljevik, and they fought in German uniforms and under Croatian chess lines, the Italians fought, the Spanish fought, the Bulgarians fought, the Poles fought, the Ukrainians fought, but they did not fight Serbs. I think it's an important fact to point out. Milan Nedic asked the Germans, unfortunately, that did not go with him, was too politically weak, that 17 cuts in the composition of the independent state of Croatia joined his Nedic Serbia to save the Serbian people from the total physical destruction that threatened him in the eastern parts of BiH. After all, how much less Milan Nedic, but the Serbian people, was human during World War II, says the fact that they found their home in Serbia, Serbia and such a Serbia, over 10,000 Slovenes. Here's a little historical curiosity. A man who was the biggest advocate of secession from Yugoslavia, who once expressed a pathological hatred for Serbs and Serbs, who in June 1991 opened fire on JNA boys in Slovenia, Milan Kucan, was born on 14 January 1941 and spent his childhood in Serbia. Both alive and well, he and his family returned after the end of World War II in Slovenia. They didn't miss the hair on their heads. Whether he has just made amends to Serbs in the right way, it will be you, distinguished colleagues and colleagues and dear Serbian citizens, to assess. There is no doubt that this law should also be passed and that all those members of the Jewish people who were victims of the Holocaust, that they must be corrected by a historical injustice and that the Jewish municipalities should be returned to the seized property, but I would not like to see the adoption of this law brought about by one historical context that is not correct. So I disagree with many views and respected intellectuals and former politician Latina Perović, but she has one great sentence – History is not just a text, history is a context. So, we're events from World War II, in that so-called so-called World War II. Nedic's Serbia, we need to interpret in the context of what was really going on. What was the alternative to forming the government of the national rescue of Milan Nedic. The Germans put a very clear ultimatum ahead of him -- either it will accept ungrateful roles to be a Serbian Quisling or the rest of Serbia will be divided between the independent state of Croatia, Bulgaria and Albania. Then you can imagine what would be left of the Serbian people if he hadn't accepted those ungrateful roles. Otherwise, a completely broken man, a man who lost his daughter-in-law and grandchild in an explosion that took place at the Smederjev Fortress in June 1941, which was not organised by Yugoslav communists, but Mustafa Golubic and another communist who received a special task from Cominterna to do so. There were hot heads among Serbs, no doubt, which accepted Nazi ideas, but their number was negligible. I don't know if you know it or not, and I'm sorry that my esteemed colleague Meho Omerovic isn't here, but I think he thinks he knows everything about Serbia's history in World War II, but maybe one detail missed him. Father Nikola Kalabic, also under discussion, whether he was a criminal or not, whether he betrayed Draž Mihajlovic or did not betray him, shown in some Partizan series in the worst possible way, Milan Kalabic was an officer of the Serbian State Guard, Nedic's Serbian State Guard and at the end of 1942, discovered in the archives and secret documents of the Gestapo in Belgrade where the German factory was located, not far from Berlin, which he produced, that is to produce the latest hunting planes and bombers that were to be used in the fight against allies and Western and eastern ones. The information on the exact location of the German factory was delivered to Aleksandr Mihajlovic, Draž's Belgrade commander. Aleksandar Mihajlović Draži, Draža Vladi, London, and the Government of London, the English and Germans knew exactly where to bomb and this factory was destroyed in late 1942 thanks to Milan Kalabic, Draža Mihajlovic, Slobodan Jovanovic, who was at the time the president of the Yugoslav Royal Government. Milan Kalabic, therefore, an officer of the Serbian State Guard, ended up with the Germans, after they discovered that he had discovered these secret plans, taking him to the losing place, so to shoot, by having to walk him 100 metres of barefoot on broken bottles, completely cutting off all his veins on his feet and so bloody, almost four-legged was brought to the firing machine and killed manly. Why am I saying this? Not to evacuate some painful wounds from the past and a brother-in-law war between Serbia, but to say that things weren't as simple as some try to present them. Both the Serbian people and the Jewish people in that occupied Kingdom of Yugoslavia, together with the Roma, were the greatest victims. It is because we have suffered together, expressing a great gratitude to the current Jewish state of Israel for not recognising Kosovo and Metohija's independence as an independent state, which it is not, of course, that the SNS parliamentary group will vote with all its heart, pure soul and pure cheek for this bill. As far as the Law of Infractions is concerned, I think it's a good thing you brought a few important newspapers into our criminal system. There's a Latin legal saying that says ius criminal sempreest reformandum. So criminal law should always be reformed. Since criminal law falls in a broader sense in criminal law, it is good that you reformed it in this way. You've speeded up a misdemeanor procedure. I think that by introducing an electronic criminal order, facilitating the achievement of a plea agreement, denying the right to appeal for a plea agreement, in fact, you have committed a criminal procedure, on the one hand, more effective and more economical, and on the other hand, I think that you have achieved the measures of special and general prevention in the best possible way. As far as the draft law amending the Law on the Law of Courts is concerned, I fully support this bill. We agree with the High Council's initiative. One topic to think about, and one long-term thought to you, ladies and gentlemen, at the Department of Justice. Personally, as a lawyer, I'm not convinced that it's a good idea to completely disenfranchise the Ministry of Justice when it comes to the so-called. Justice administration. There is no doubt that the executive authority should not interfere with the decision-making of concrete court rulings, and that actually means judicial independence, but it seems to me that the idea that all the Justice Ministry's powers should be completely annulled when it comes to judicial administration is not good, because the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says that our country's political system rests on the principle of dividing power, but that all three branches of government control each other and stick to some kind of balance. In that sense, we have plenty of time, since we're prolonging...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49202	Time. I'm done.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49203	... from the first of June 2016, on the first of January 2017, to consider, well to consider, whether at all acceptable idea of one important part of the affairs of the Ministry of Justice, which is the judicial administration, deprives the Ministry of Justice and trusts the High Council of the judiciary. I think that would make the Serbian judiciary much less effective than it is now, and we all want it to be even more efficient, even better and to be absolutely in service to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you, Mr. Becic, for letting me finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49204	Thank you. Do any of the other authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. We move to the order of the MPs according to the application for a word and the first speaker who will have the right to present is MP Ivan Bauer, and before that, honourable Members of Parliament, according to Article 27 and Article 87(2) and (3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass the act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a break and continue our work at 1545 hours. Thank you. [[After a break.]] We're going back to work. The word has been made by MP Ivan Bauer.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49206	I thank the chairman. Dear ministers and guests from the ministry, the VSS and the State Council of Prosecutors, distinguished fellow Members and fellow MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, will take the opportunity within the 12 minutes that I have available to talk about the Law on the removal of property from Holocaust victims who do not have living legal heirs. The two starting points of this law are, firstly, the desire of the Republic of Serbia to quote in Article 2(2) of this law - compassion, solidarity and understanding of the Republic of Serbia for the suffering of the European people that occurred in its territory during its enemy occupation. The second source of this law is so-called. The Teresin Declaration, adopted on 30 June 2009. With the shame of the notorious statement that Belgrade is the first Jewish-free city, mentioned today, it seems to me that counterpart Neđo Jovanovic, and then was repeatedly quoted or perhaps precisely for reasons of shame because of that statement, I think it should at least be noted that if not to point out that Serbia is adopting this law as the home country of the people who also suffered terrible persecution and terrible suffering during World War II. It should also be said that Serbia was under constant occupation during World War II, and it was in several occupation zones, so it wasn't even any occupation zone, and I'll talk about it a little bit later. So, the law is passed I would say from the point of view of the people of the victim or more of the victims, since the Serbs were not the only ones who suffered Nazi persecution or if you want me to express myself metaphorically again, the state of the victim, which I would say gives this law special weight. I mentioned the Teresa Declaration, it was signed by a large number of states, almost 50 of which all today's EU members should also be stressed, but also Serbia. The idea that led to the adoption of this Teresa Declaration is to ensure the well-being of future generations and call for eternal memory, a unique history of the heritage of the Holocaust that literally wiped out the face of the country by three quarters of European Jews. I don't need to remind myself, although I can see that none of my colleagues said that today, that the Jewish people suffered injustice and I would say centuries of persecution and long before World War II. World War II was just a culmination of the process. So I think that fact further adds to the importance of adopting a law that specifically treats this matter regardless of what we have a roof law that regulates the issue of the return of the seized property and the compensation. So this law represents, I'm not a lawyer, but I understand myself so much in law, some kind of lex specialis, but in the most positive meaning of that term. The adoption of this law is foreseen, as we have heard today, by the national plan for the adoption of EU legal flows between 2014 and 2018, but it is important to say that its adoption does not constitute our obligation either in the process of European integration or our international commitment. I would say that it certainly sends a very positive picture of Serbia worldwide, and I would say that it gives the European Commission more reason to assess our efforts in the most positive way possible to improve the rights of minority and vulnerable groups, which I am sure will reflect on the very quick opening of chapters 23 and 24. In addition to returning the seized property which was the subject of this law, whether the seizure of that property occurred during the Holocaust, whether it occurred during the so-called time of the so-called Holocaust. Agrarian reforms, i.e. nationalisation and confiscation, are also financial support provided for by this 25-year law to the Jewish community, starting on 1 January 2017. It is something that is certainly in the spirit of the Teresa Declaration, which is in agreement with its recommendations, but again it is not our international obligation, but I would say an act of goodwill or good intentions, I am trying to find an expression that will not sound casual, because this really is not something that could be called if someone were abused by some kind of charity of the state of Serbia, but is just one act of good intention that we want to help the Jewish community in Serbia, especially those of its endangered people, and to give our contribution to the constant reminder of the terrible victims of the Holocaust. I think it is a subject of special importance in the Balkans, because it must never be forgotten that the victims of Nazi persecution during World War II were other nations, not just Jewish people, especially Serbs and Roma. Unfortunately, this spiral of crime did not end with the end of World War II in these places, but continued during the 1990s when almost all the nations in these areas died. This is why the SDPS thinks it is particularly important to remember all the victims from whatever people they come from, but also to condemn those who have participated in these crimes in any way. In this sense, of course, we support such a law in our heart, but we also use the opportunity to remind our fellow Members, the MPs that our parliamentary group has submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia a declaration of condemnation of associates, occupiers who have committed crimes or participated in the conduct of war crimes. As far as the law itself is concerned, to return to it, we consider his idea to be a guide to all praise. The same thing I mentioned earlier, which is financial support to the European Community, but I would also say that praise is prescribed urgency in solving all cases, that is, all the requirements that arise under this law, and also the exemption from paying taxes, taxis and other fees for requests to be filed for those cases resulting from its application. Therefore, the law is designed so that those who apply, their demands are indeed resolved quickly, efficiently and at minimum costs for applicants. I have to say, the number of those laws won't be small. Only immovable things, therefore, without moving things and businesses, which is also an integral part of this law, in the territory of Germany, so only the German occupation zone, is about 3,000. When we add to this the requirements that will come from the Hungarian occupation zone, i.e. Backa, then from the occupation zone which was an integral part of the Independent State of Croatia, or Srema, when we add the requirements that may appear in Kosovo and Metohija, or from one part of eastern Serbia that was the Bulgarian occupation zone, then it is clear that the number of these requirements will not be so small. It is true that one part of these requirements has already been resolved individually, based on the Law on the return of the seized property and the compensation, but I am sure that quite a number of requests will be resolved and by this law that we have passed today, by this law, I repeat, Lex specialis, but in the most positive meaning of that term. The Group of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia welcomes the engagement of both the Ministry and the Minister, as well as the working group working on the draft of this law, and I must stress this, very closely co-operation with the Union of Jewish municipalities, i.e. with the Jewish community in Serbia, and for this reason it is clear that our parliamentary group will also support this law, as well as all the laws that Minister Selakovic has explained today, but also all of these proposals we have heard from the gentlemen from the High Council of the judiciary, i.e. the State Council of Prosecutors. We've submitted a number of amendments, but we'll talk about it when it's time, and I'm not going to abuse the Rules of Procedure today so I can talk about the amendments. I have one dilemma that raises two questions that I would ask the minister, because it seems to me that we've solved the other with the amendments, and I'm not sure about this at all whether it can be resolved by the amendment, or whether it's necessary that eventually the minister reacts with some kind of sublegal act? Of course, if he's okay with what I tell him. What is the problem, in my opinion, or in the opinion of the parliamentary group, is, as you wish, about Article 15 paragraph 1 of the Law, relating to the return of property, or to proof of membership to the European community before World War II, or during World War II. Now I will tell you exactly what it says in paragraph 5: “Provence of the fact that the previous owner was a member of the Jewish community, and if the former owner is a legal person, proof that he was in any way in the function of the Jewish community. ” So it needs to be proved that someone was a member of the Jewish community. I don't know how to fix it with an amendment, but here's what potential problems are in application. So, what do you do in cases where the books run by the Jewish community were destroyed during World War II and thus there was a problem that someone who was a member of the Jewish community proved that he was a member of it? I must tell you, these are the data that I received in consultation with members of the Jewish community in Serbia, that there are some Jewish municipalities, or they no longer exist, there were Jewish municipalities in Serbia that no longer exist today, or have no members, and there are not even books, because they were burned during World War II. The second question - what do you do in cases of Jews who were not members of the Jewish congregation, and their status is clear, since they are members of the Jewish people and are Jewish religions? They were also the subject of persecution and suffered all the terrible coincidences like all the rest of the Jewish people, because, as I say, they were reportedly discovered by the German occupation authorities? Since I have time, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to make a suggestion as to how we feel this might work out. I think he mentioned something similar to my colleague Omerovic when he spoke as an authorised representative of our parliamentary group, which is that the German occupation authorities kept a very precise record of the seized property of Jews during World War II. I would say, given that there is practically evidence in these papers that some member of the Jewish community, even if there are no books, or if he wasn't a registered member of the Jewish community, just because his property was taken away and that he suffered persecution, I believe that that is quite enough evidence. I'd say this could be used, that your papers could be used as one credible evidence, or, if you will, as legitimate evidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49207	Thank you, Mr. Bauer. The word has a minister, Mr. Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49208	Thank you. Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am pleased that all MP groups support the adoption of such a law and I return to what I have said in the opening statement, that this is not only our legal obligation, this is a kind and moral obligation and this is the classification of the Serbian people and citizens of Serbia, once again, to the family of people in which it is well deserved and which it has proven through its anti-fascist resistance during World War II. Of course, when it comes to something that unites us, we also open up some topics that are painful and difficult. And indeed, when you look at the strict language of this provision that you were talking about, colleague Bauer, things seem, in the least, awkward. How can there be no more proof for a man whose family no longer exists that he was a member of a particular national community? When you see that this law will be applied by graduate lawyers and when they look at the acts that have been taken away from property, these acts are by their legal nature indeed such that they point to the fact that the fact that property has been taken away from someone, and in this act it mainly stands, that it is taken away from a member of the Jewish people, and state the name and last name. The moment I was temporarily absent from here, and I thank you and for your understanding of it, I was told by my associates that there was also something I think we should talk about. In the National Assembly, we need to talk about everything openly and honestly. This is about a controversial personality of our history, the former general of the famous Serb army from the First World War, and in World War II on a single individual who is viewed differently, but no doubt the leader of a Quincept regime in Serbia – Milan Nedic. You know, getting ready for this debate, this wasn't about me getting ready to discuss any law, I was really trying to get into the essence of that quasi legal system that worked on one part of our country's territory at the time. Because, as you said, the Kingdom of Yugoslavia is the only country that was divided into occupation zones and torn between 1941 and 1945. Then I came across something that I really want to share with you, and it is a regulation that bears the name of a regulation on the belonging of Jews to Serbia. Believe it or not, under the number of MS No. 3313 on 26 August 1942, the regulation was signed by Minister of the Council of Ministers Milan Đ. Nedic himself and Interior Minister Milan Acimovic himself. The following is set out in that regulation. Therefore, the Regulation on the belonging of Jews to Serbia, on the basis of Article 1. The amendments to existing rules and the adoption of new, MS No. 1113 since 16 September 1939, the Council of Ministers prescribes a Regulation on the belonging of Jews to Serbia. Article 1 – The property of those Jews who were citizens of the former Kingdom of Yugoslavia on 15 April 1941, or without citizenship, if they are located in the Serbian area, belongs to Serbia, without any compensation. This excludes the property of the Jews of the former members of the German Reich, now without citizenship. Article 2 Serbia guarantees the debts of Jews whose property belonged to Serbia only to the amount of the amount received from the sale of those things and the rights of those Jews belonging to Serbia, the rights to the items transferred to Serbia remain in force. If a Jew whose property under article 1 belongs to Serbia is obliged to give support to a third party under legal rules, Serbia does not guarantee maintenance requirements that will be achieved after belonging to the property, but Serbia can conclude a settlement with non-Jewish persons who have the right to support and its regular stay in the country at the level of these claims. The alignment can be concluded in money. The agreed amount must not exceed the amount received from the sale of assets belonging to Serbia. The alignment can provide for the concession of things and the right holder of maintenance. Article 3 It remains in force for the release of property given by Serbia's general economic authority before the entry into force of this Regulation. Article 4 In cases of doubt whether one asset falls under the influence of this Regulation is decided by the finance minister. His decision is final, there's no legal remedy against her. The administration and right of disposal belong to Jewish property, remains in principle until the transfer of to Serbia's general economic authority. Following the transfer, administration and the right to dispose of assets belonging to Serbia, the finance minister will entrust to the state mortgage bank in Belgrade. Article 5 The provisions implementing this Regulation shall be adopted by the finance minister. Article 6 This Regulation shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the Official Journal. Date, to repeat again, August 26, 1942, Belgrade, Prime Minister Milan Đ. Nedic, by hand. This is something we can only be ashamed of in history. We are mainly prepared to say that, and what is true, in these acts, the area of our country is called the state of Serbia. It wasn't the state of Serbia. The deviation towards the formation was set up by both anti-fascist movements in Serbia. The People's Liberation Army of Yugoslavia had 11 people's heroes of Jews, and in the Yugoslav Army in the country, since its very beginning of operation, means already in May 1941, among 24 officers and sub-offices who have gathered in Ravno Gora, of 24, is one Jew. Benjamin Samokovli. Our countrymen, members of the Jewish people, call them whatever you will, Serbian Jews, as they once called themselves Serbs, the Mosaics, however, participated in resisting the occupier in both movements and were prominent anti-fascists. By preparing myself, as I said, for this session, I know that one of the arguments is always in the defense of what Nedic's Serbia did, and he personally stands out, that they acted according to the orders of the occupation authorities. Indeed, I have also brought orders from the military commander in Serbia since 30 May 1941, bearing the title "The Order concerning Jews and gypsies", the end of the quote. That when you take and read, you really see the racist orders that this regime has been carrying out. What I just took away from you a few minutes more and read the text of the Jewish property Regulation to Serbia is a regulation brought by the Quinspeak government that has functioned in occupied Serbia. Because that Quincepian government did it, we have to pass this law today. As much as this hurts any of us, I have to say this, because this is the truth. Was it only done by the Nedic regime in Serbia? It's not. That's what you just turned your attention to. And in Horti's occupation zone, there especially because a significant number of Jews lived in the area of Backa and in the occupation zone of Ustasha Independent State of Croatia. I don't know, I have to tell you right now, what was the number of our Jewish countrymen in the areas of other occupation zones. I know in particular that there were not many in Kosovo and Metohija. Do you know where they were? They were, for example, in other parts of the Bulgarian occupation zone, on the territory of the current Republic of Macedonia. In any case, this is an opportunity for us, like the Government and you, as the National Assembly, that is, the MPs of the people, to speak out loud and clear as to what things are called and to call them by their real name. I know what my good friend, friend, colleague, brother Alexander Martinovic said, and really when it comes to our personal impressions, if anyone asks me if Milan Nedic was an ideological fascist, I don't think he was, but he left a big stain in his name. What's the reason I'm saying that? The Serbs saved the Jews during World War II. I, as a member of the Serbian people, am proud of it. When you go to Roosevelt Street and across the street from the New Cemetery, next to the Cemetery of Belgrade's Liberations, there is a Jewish cemetery. When you enter the gates of the Jewish cemetery, on the right there is a monumental monument of white marble on which the names of all those, as it stands above, are written, the Serb Moses who have given their lives for Serbia in the naked and resurrection of the Serbian state since 1912, meaning in the Balkan wars until 1918, as their homeland. We must never forget that. The person I mentioned, although I think you should also take care of when you mention a name in front of the National Assembly, especially if the name is from history and if someone is not in a position to present counterarguments, but I will only read to you paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 of this order since 30 May 1941, which was carried out by those Quinspeak authorities. Watch what he says - the Jews are obliged to mark themselves. They must wear on their left hand a yellow ribbon with the inscription “Jewish. ” That's paragraph three. Paragraph 4 - Jews cannot be public servants. Their removal from the institutions must immediately be carried out by Serbian authorities. Paragraph 5 - Jews cannot be allowed to practice the practice of lawyers, doctors, dentists, veterinarians, and pharmacists. Jewish lawyers who have so far had legal practice must no longer appear before the court or the authorities as advocates. Jewish doctors and dentists are taking away practice unless it's about treating Jews. At the entrance to the office, the Jewish origin and ban on the treatment of the Aryans must be highlighted. The work of Jewish veterinarians and pharmacists is prohibited, etc. I had an obligation to read this because I don't think we should discuss these things. Who's interested in this? Have him go to the historical archive, and this can be found and read. As far as your particular question is concerned, you saw from that first unfortunate regulation, it's very clear in all these acts, when someone's taking away property, that it seems to be because he's a member of the Jewish people. I wouldn't read to you here, who's interested in letting him read these papers, but these orders are very detailed and how they are determined at that time, when the seizure of property is carried out to determine who belongs to the Jewish people. So from the legal point of view, the member is quite clear. The fact that the Union of Jewish Municipalitys, the Jewish municipalities took part in the drafting of this regulation says enough to support that this provision is quality, legal quality and that it will not be confident in people who will work directly on its application, will not create problems in practice itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49209	Thank you, Mr. Minister. (Meho Omerovic, from town: Replica. ) Mr. Omerovic, but on what basis do you want to speak? You have no right to a replica. Well, you didn't just say you'd have the right to a replica. Here you go. The word is by MP Meso Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49210	Mr. Chairman, thank you for giving me your word. I'm glad Minister Nikola Selakovic is, now I really...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49211	I'm not saying that the base was, but you got right to the replica and you can talk. Here you go. Sign up again, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49212	I am pleased that Minister Selakovic, in his address, has now confirmed what we have spoken from the SDPS since this morning, namely, this Quislin government of Milan Nedic had passed such regulations, if it hadn't been for the Government of Milan Nedic in the period since World War II in the time of the occupation of Germany in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, we would not have discussed even today a law on the agenda. So these are the facts. I would just like to remind you, because this is an opportunity and a place precisely because of the piety towards the victims, therefore, it is not spoken here as some try to input that the Serbian people participated in crimes or in any way in the Holocaust of the Jews, the state police apparatus of the Quislin government took part here and led by Milan Nedic. The truth is to be said that in addition to the extermination and cleansing of Jews in a very short period of time in the occupied territory of Serbia, today's Republic of Serbia, this Quislin regime committed the most crimes against its own people. So Milan Nedic and his government are also the most responsible for crimes against tens of them, tens of thousands of Serbs, Roma and of course Jews, as we are talking about this law today. The same Milan Nedic did not remember, although some today call him a Serbian mother to resign when the children in Kragujevac were killed. It didn't occur to him to resign and say, "I don't want to be the head of a government where children who belong to my people are killed."
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49213	Thank you. The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49214	I just want to make one thing clear to the end here that I think needs to be made clear and I support what we're saying here and these things. So, of course, I, believe me, because a person needs to be watched throughout her life, can say something else that is important to say now, whether this is Milan Nedic or some of his members of the regime at the time worked with enthusiasm, with great desire, with a commitment to it. I don't want to get into it. Here we simply see the result and the consequences. It is indisputable that Nedic's Serbia was a haven for many Serbs who fled the Ustasha knife and would certainly not have survived if it hadn't been for it. But it is also an undeniable fact, which is that in one part of the matter Nedic's regime was in the service of occupation authorities. The fact that both resistance movements have made a distance to it and according to the regime speaks sufficiently in favour of it. What was in anyone's head? What anyone felt when they did anything, that's another thing, a subjective impression. The fact is, he was a man who had both his light and his dark side. He was a great warrior and a great soldier during World War I, unfortunately his role in World War II in many things is not worthy of merit, but of our shame.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49215	Thank you, Mr. Minister. (Meho Omerovic, from town: Replica. Mr. Omerovic, you have no right to a replica. You haven't had a first time. You're entitled to a replica. Now for this I must break and give the right to the replica of Mr. Martinovic just as I have given you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49216	I thank Mr. Becic. It is obvious that this topic is very current and very interesting and no wonder why it attracts this much attention from the MPs. My dear colleague and friend Meho Omerovic and I agree on something that we disagree on. I don't think there's any need to raise some political temperature here now because of events that took place between 1941 and 1944. I just wanted to point out some historical facts that shed a little different light on Milan Nedić's personality than is usually shown in the history written after World War II. So Milan Nedic was an army general. Milan Nedic was part of World War I, actively fighting Germany and Austria. He was the Chief of Staff of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia's Army. What I can also say, Milan Nedic, at least that's what I think Milan Nedic believed the Germans would win World War II, but not because they believed in the power of their ideology but because they saw the Germans starting to win at the beginning of World War II. As for handling Hitler, before Nedic Hitler is in Munich 1938. For years, the English and the French gave their hand. Do you know what Churchill called the 1938 Munich Agreement signed by the English and French with Hitler, the Munich massacre of Czechoslovakia. Do you remember from those historical movies that Neville Chamberlain was waving paper when he returned to London and said, "Here, I brought peace." That was in September 1938. It hasn't been a year, and World War II broke out.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49217	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Professor Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49218	Thank you. Articles 106 and 107. I think that the Serbian parliament is one of the few parliaments in the world in which occupiers and associates of Adolf Hitler can be described and defended in such a beautiful way. Not only is this not the topic of today's session, the defence of the character and the work of Mr Nedic, but this is being violated by the basic international conventions signed by the Republic of Serbia, which is the condemnation of Nazism and all that is today even the subject of this debate, which is the Holocaust. So, Mr. Nedic collaborated with Adolf Hitler, who committed the Holocaust and you allow Mr. Martinovic to defend Nedic, and thus the regime that collaborated with Mr. Adolf Hitler, if the gentleman can be called who destroyed one nation almost, the Jewish nation, killed the largest number of patriots, most of the Serbian people and other peoples who defended their country. And you're allowing Mr. Chairman to speak in this way here today and to be told by someone who's the deputy head of the ruling party. This will probably be heard outside of this House. So, please warn Mr. Minister, to give him a warning and Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49219	Please, Mr. Veselinovic. You are now asking me to interpret correcting the speeches of the MPs of the people. If I were to adopt that principle, then I would have to correct every sentence of your speech from the first one in this congregation to the last one right now. I, as the chairman, have no right to do so, can only protect the dignity of the National Assembly of People's MPs, but to correct speeches and to urge the MPs to discuss it on a particular subject, neither can I nor have the right to do so in the Rules of Procedure. But you're right. I think we should end this replication even though you have now abused the Rules of Procedure, replicated Mr. Martinovic and the minister. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? (Janko Veselinović, from town: Yes. Yes. Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Meho Omerovic. Here you go, Mr. Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49220	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 104, I'm misread. counterpart Martinovic not only called me by name and last name, counterpart Martinovic said Kvislinska Vlada President Milan Nedic believed Germany would win World War II. Mr. Martinovic, that time wasn't the time of the bookies, so he went to pay Bajern from Munich to make some money. That would be his money. He has invested the interests of both the Serb people and the Serbian state. He played with the fate of his people and the lives of not only Serbs, but all others who lived then in that occupied Serbia. By that logic, we wouldn't even have this law today if it were what you're talking about, believing it would defeat the Germans. You know what, Mr. Martinovic, in history, that anyone who believed that an occupier or a slave would eventually win, many nations, nations and states would disappear, would never exist. So be careful what you say. What you're saying is not true. That's the historical lies you're talking about. I don't care what Milan Nedic believed. I believe in what he did, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49221	Mr. Omerovic, I don't think this is right what you're doing. (Meho Omerovic, from the place: What? ) So to abuse the Rules of Procedure, it is very clear to you that you have misused the Rules of Procedure and replicated Mr Martinović. Do you have a right to the Rules of Procedure? (Meho Omerovic, from the place: I was mentioned by a man. Then you have the right to seek the right to reply.. (Meho Omerovic, from the place: Well I asked, you didn't give me. But also to respect your colleagues who have responded after the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, who have the advantage. You should have waited your turn, Mr. Omerovic, as you disputed the right to respected Professor Martinovic, who is a professor at the Faculty of Political Sciences, where he certainly as a professor can run an analysis in history and, according to his analysis, estimate that Mr. Nedic meant it, and you disputed to the respected professor that this is the way of making history an analysis. Everyone has that right, especially people of science, like Mr. Martinovic. (Meho Omerovic, from the place: Do not interpret Martinović. Don’t interpret it either, if you deny it to me, don’t do it to me. I'd like to ask Mr. Martinovic. You have the right to breach the Rules of Procedure, but let us end this debate and Mrs. Comic is patiently waiting to get the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49222	I thank you, Mr. Becic. I won't answer for a word on this subject again. I had no intention of insulting anyone, I just pointed out that the topic of the rehabilitation of Milan Nedic should be left to court. It is the court that will assess whether the conditions for the rehabilitation of Milan Nedic are met or not. I've just brought up those historical facts that I'm familiar with, which relate to that period, the unfortunate and tragic period of World War II. As a longtime MP, as a man who has been involved in politics longer than I have, let someone about history and historical events have little and no different opinion from you. Don't think you're always right. Let there be some counterarguments. I don't think this is a fateful issue today for the state of Serbia. Fately important question is how are we going to recover the Serbian economy, to hire both Serbs and Bosniaks and Hungarians and Jews and all others, to give people bread in hand. The fact that we're diverged about seeing the role of individual historical figures in our recent history that was very painful and very tragic, I don't think there's any reason to heat up the atmosphere here and argue until midnight. I, as my colleague, my friend, have the best opinion possible. I think you're a very correct MP. We don't always agree on everything, but I think Parliament does that to exchange arguments and counterarguments. I just wanted to point out that the history of World War II in occupied Serbia is not as simple as it seems to you, in my opinion. Nothing else. I hope you don't misread my words.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49223	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. As I said, you're a professor at law school and we certainly allow you to have that look and that you can run analysis when it comes to history. Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49224	Thank you. My vote for the bill to remove the consequences of the confiscation of property to victims of holocausts who do not have living heirs from, I think, to everyone, without a moral deficit of clear reasons, it is simply a moral imperative to adopt as a law and thus send a clear message within the framework of Serbia's legislation about sticking to our anti-fascist values and signed international documents. My intervention with the law refers to Article 3. Article 3. As a rubrum, the title has a supertitle, it has the word holocaust. My amendment is that this changes in the consequences of the holocaust. Especially as a member is – for the purposes of this law, the holocaust represents the time of 6 April, etc. The Holocaust, the notion of the Holocaust is known, I will not say in international law, but it is known to refer to the killing of millions of Jews and members of many other communities, the decisions of the Nazi authorities of Germany, and that in 1936, the Ninber Laws, which were taken by a citizen and all other rights to the Jews, the laws after which came to Crystal Night, which we mark in November, when the mob broke the windows of Jewish shops, shops, pulled them into the streets and beat them. So, Nazi Germany is legally, but by laws with moral deficits, an industry of death. The budget of Germany decided to build concentration camps, it was legal for them, and we should never lose sight of it, whenever we pass laws. It's not enough to have a majority for the law. It is important that these laws be passed so that they do not have a moral deficit in them, such as the Ninber laws. Hence, my proposal to amend in the minimum order of words this Article 3 as well as the end of Article 3 relating to the regulations and acts of the Nazi regime in the regulations and acts of the occupier. Nothing changes in terms, nor do I think that the billmaker had anything different from my position when it comes to the desire to determine where the Holocaust is in occupied Serbia. That is why it is important to talk about the consequences of the Holocaust, because neither is it the authentic legislation of Serbia in any form, the Kingdom, in any form, nor is there anything that I hope would ever be a majority in any assembly, any Serbia. My second question, Minister, is not, in fact, a minister, but it concerns the decision to decide at this session on the resolution of Prosecutor Vladimir Vukcevic and I remain unclear why we are deciding? We changed the law so he could stay in office, regardless of age. We now have a request to be resolved with 31.12 and that the new prosecutor was not elected. It is clear to you and to me that Prosecutor Vladimir Vukcevic cannot escape the force of the law if it is an age, but it is not clear to me, perhaps it is clear to him, or to you, I don't know, why are we going to discharge and terminate our mandate when we haven't chosen a new prosecutor? We have news from the media that a competition for the War Crimes Prosecutor will be reopened, because the Assembly did not elect a prosecutor, so I do not see any reason why Prosecutor Vladimir Vukcevic is being resolved, or replaced by the mandate. With the hope that the amendment that I have submitted to Article 3. The law on the removal of the consequences of the Holocaust to be accepted, I note that this is not an amendment that changes the law by conditionaling on the Proposer to accept it or not, but I think it is an amendment that is important to change words and not to talk about the concept of Holocaust in a law that does not deal with the concept of Holocaust, but deals with the consequences of the Holocaust. With sincere regret that the Reichstag MPs once, in 1936 without a vote against, the power of most undivided worship of Adolf Hitler, have passed the most tragic laws with a moral deficit, I hope that our message, on the adoption of this law, will also be a message that they will never again be silent anywhere in Europe, in the world, such a congregation, such a Reichstag, such a country, in which such laws will be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49225	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. The breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Meho Omerovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49226	Mr. Chairman, you violated the Rules of Procedure because you did not listen to your colleague Gordana Komic at all. Gordana Comic today, while the debate is on the principle of proposed laws, talked about her amendment and you let her talk a few minutes about the amendment, although we will discuss the details under all these laws probably lead on Friday.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49227	Mr. Omerovic, by that same principle, I couldn't let you go, in your presentation, to say any sentence, because you didn't talk about the subject either.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49228	I wasn't talking about the subject?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49229	Nothing more or less than Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49230	Can I finish?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49231	You can't because you're breaking the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49232	How do I break the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49233	So, because you can tell me the way I broke the Rules of Procedure, that I ask you if you want the Assembly to plead...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49234	Another member on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I have the right to misread what I was saying, Article 104.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49235	You already said that. I said that, as chairman, I estimate you have no right. My decision is final, and it's not worth convincing.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49236	You have to give me the right on that basis...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49237	Thank you, Mr. Omerovic. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49238	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, very briefly, I am sorry that Col. Komic is not here to hear my answer. In fact, this law in its first article makes it very clear what is the subject of its editing, in the second article it explains certain used terms, and since the term of the law refers to the concept of Holocaust, only the legislator in Article 3 explains in what sense the concept of Holocaust was used in this law. Therefore, her discussion of the possible renaming of Article 3 in the aftermath of the Holocaust instead of the concept of Holocaust, I do not think it stands at all, because the first member says very clearly – this law, in order to remove the consequences of the confiscation of the victims of the Holocaust etc. So it's already said that this law aims at removing the consequences resulting from the Holocaust, and the Holocaust term really sets within the limits of this law. What is the concept of Holocaust in the first place, it's well known to us and it doesn't prescribe the law. It's something that sociology and history have defined a long time ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49239	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49240	Fifteen points in the joint debate is a little too much to eat, so I'm going to talk about three. First, this one that's already been talked about, which is the removal of the consequences of the Holocaust, it's a good law. I, like all Serbian citizens, have the full right to be proud of the Serb attitude towards Jewish victims in World War II. Personally, I was fortunate to be a guest of the Israeli government for 50 years of the state of Israel. I've been to Masada twice, to Jad Chevam, etc. I know a lot about this problem and I recommend that everyone who is hard to learn from the history books go to see the "Invisible Monuments" play at the Bitef Theatre, which in a good way gives a picture of Jews' suffering, in Belgrade in particular. Unfortunately, of those 15 points, this is one of the few good ones. The rest are very bad, especially points 12 and 13. These are the points dealing with making decisions on the termination of the prosecutor's office. Those points are anti-constitutional and illegal. I've already warned you about that on the Justice Committee, so I'll just say it again, if it wasn't clear to anyone. The consequences are catastrophic, especially for the legal profession, especially for the prosecutions, especially for people whose rule of law is nice. What was violated by these decisions? First of all, Article 25. The DVT's Rules of Procedure, because they did not make a decision in time to elect new prosecutors, six months before the current prosecutor's office expired, and this was missed in 20, and some examples also in the case of the Prosecutor for Organized Crimes, and in the case of the War Crimes Prosecutor. Article 161 has been injured. The Constitution and Article 87(2) The Law on Public Prosecutor's Office, for example, in the case of Miljko Radisavljevic, former Prosecutor for Organized Crime, as he ceased his post on 21 December 2015. That's when his mandate expired. You are asking us to vote today, in February 2016, that his post expired on December 31st last year. There's also a question of retroactive fact, completely pointless. We can't decide now that someone stopped function 45 days ago, and especially since he lost his post by law enforcement another 10 days before that. The result is that obviously from December 21st last year to the day today, and we will have it for another few days, we have two prosecutors for organised crime, which, as a consequence, creates the possibility of breaking down all the legal affairs that the prosecution has done in the last 45 days, and that means that, for example, they are released from the freedom of the people who were then detained, who for legitimate reasons were part of the work of these prosecutors. At the same time, in 20 and some cases, the Republic Prosecutor appointed the public prosecutor's office, who otherwise served as public prosecutors in the public prosecutor's office, and thus usurped the law, since it was a lady, to usurp parliament's right. There can't be a Republican prosecutor, even if it's a lady, to raise someone from the prosecutor's office to the level of the prosecutor, because it can only be chosen by the Assembly that we're in right now. The same goes for the former war crimes prosecutor. Of course it's his time to retire and meet all the conditions. It is not a question of whether he should remain there, but the question is that in an illegal, anti-constitutional way, his not-region was carried out, but the termination of the decisions offered to us to vote on, on the termination of his post. I ask the high-level lawyers to find a way out of this gala of irresponsibility or evil intentions and not to force us as MPs to violate the Constitution and the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49241	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49242	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, he's a strange Rules of Procedure these days, very strange. There are strange lists of speakers, so if you'll excuse me, I'd like to make a statement on the court and the D.A.'s office. I still claim that our patient people, primarily patient, poor, on the verge of misery and hunger, the vast majority live in a rich and fertile land, but poor and almost hungry more than that bread want justice. They want to punish themselves, they as losers of transition, wait and wait to punish the winners of transition. Not those who gained it by their ability, by their business, by their capital, but above all by those who gained it by crime, who turned the state into a crime bar, where until we entered it we didn't even know how deep it was, and it's very deep. So they ask more than bread to establish the truth, to establish the truth, to punish and protect the victims, not only to punish them, but to prevent future crimes or misdemeanors in such a way. I believe that the new judges, I believe that the changes in the prosecution should ensure that the truth is found in that court once. Also, I want to encourage the prosecutors to look for that truth in the name of the people. In order for the court to have something to do and how to determine the truth, they must seek out the truth for reasons to punish themselves, to protect those who are not guilty. The fact is that party courts, which existed as court parties, such as extended bodies of certain parties, parties of the former regime, coalitions, served primarily to protect their party powers. It was the court's party. These were not the courts of the people who were to establish the truth; they were the courts that were against the people and against the truth. The task of those who, as fresh blood today, enter the judiciary is to approach difficult cases on behalf of it. I welcome the release of judges in Valjev, I sincerely welcome and welcome, but I do not believe that other courts are immune to the savages of the judicial executioners who have recently changed the law that savagery has been prevented and tempered. The law that was in force recently prevented the victim from complaining at all. The perpetrators were savage, they had their judges, they had their perpetrators, they were all combined, like they were working on a percentage. The courts beat the seals as if they were a court executioner's tents, and sometimes some lawyers, and you didn't have to ask why a verdict was made, but after a verdict was reached. Our people talk, and I believe where there's smoke and fire, that some money comes back and beats up judgments. I have an obvious injustice in India. A man burned himself in his lawyer's yard, claiming that his lawyer was his first, so he went to the opposing side. Since he wasn't satisfied with justice, he burned himself. It's a citizen of this country. No matter how poor he is, as a citizen of this country, he, as someone we represent here, has the right to protect, no matter how poor he was. The verdict was legal. Unfortunately, he couldn't be helped. He made his torments a little worse, but he warned us that on the matter of execution, which seems so benign... There's about a debate about who's going to be a prosecutor, a judge, and so on. Debates need to be led around rights, rights of citizens to truth and justice. One thing's right, the other's justice. Courts must seek truth, seek to satisfy those who need to protect and punish those who threaten their lives, their freedom, their right to work, their right to bread, at least that's my opinion. About the Holocaust. As a member of the family who, fortunately, was among the victims, the Patriarch Paul -- if we can't live as humans, we'd better disappear, not live as nonhumans, we'd better disappear. Pretty much. That's how my family acted. We were disappearing, but we watched us stay human. I believe that these orders exist, but that injustice, which we are correcting today, has been done an even greater injustice. With a new order, it's a crime to keep that property during the war. It's a crime, a crime, call whatever you want, big crime. I don't want to talk about names. The then occupied Serbia, regardless of what was occupied, had no right to do so. She did it under pressure, there's an order. What about the order that that property was held free? If she's kept in the war, and what's kept in the open? I ask my comrades and friends, I ask Mr. Martinovic who is a historian, a lawyer historian, who knows it best. He's particularly good at the history you're interested in, sir, which you're throwing away. I believe he's very good, but I'm telling the truth. I'm not talking about the March agreements. I'm not talking about Velebit, Gilas, Kochi Popovic. I'm not talking about negotiations in Zagreb. Here, I won't talk. I will not show authority to Koci Popovic to negotiate. Here, I won't talk. I'm saying why in freedom, how many years has it been, 70, 40, 50, why hasn't the first 10 injustices been corrected? I'll tell you. Because of the brothers after the sacrifice. Roma, Jews, Serbs, brothers in torture, brothers in gas chambers, killed, slaughtered, slaughtered, slaughtered, whatever you want, in Auschwitz, Jasenovac, Simisto, Banjaca, wherever you want. They were equal when the property was taken. This order, which is shameful, why isn't it lifted after the war? Even multiplied. Why is the return of Serbs forbidden in Slavonia? By what order, Mr. Minister? Bring her, too, let's see, she'll be just. When we talk about the victims of the holocaust, we must remember that one nation with a Jewish percentage suffered the most by liberating themselves and others, living as humans, and there were among us and inhumans, living as people in the last hundred years of the 20th century we lost three million members of the Serbian people. I think only the Armenians and the Jews have experienced a worse fate than we have. We have also experienced why not say it, as an armature of the former Yugoslavia, to be declared the sole culprits of the last decade of the 20th century. Why don't you say that in this House, why don't you say that the majority people's property has also not been returned? Salas, fields, facilities, machinery, etc. I welcome this return of property, even in situations where there are no heirs, but we have not returned the majority of the people's property that has been kidnapped since 1944 and beyond the people who are guilty just because they had it. Tens of thousands of people were killed. It wasn't surely the late Draža, or the late Hitler. We can talk about it. I do not want to deal with divisions, Mr. Martinovic said – there is a black and white side, there are gray tones. I think we're all wrong. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs are all wrong. During World War II, fraternal wars were only on the territory of Serbia, brother to brother. These were all other killing wars, so don't lie to yourself or anyone else. It's no good, but we can't deal with black and white tones, we don't have to deal with divisions. It's hard, as hard as we try on behalf of our ideologies to spark the past, it's hard to sort out the past. She can't be arranged, she happened. We can describe each other in a more beautiful or worse or ugly way. We can say that the English team in 1938, football team, welcomed Hitler with his greetings. I can't do it here, it's rude, but it happened. We don't need to do that. We're too poor, we're exhausted, little people, so many times a clan, murdered, hanged, stuck on a stake, not to mention all the crimes and not to describe them so vividly. We can't spark the past, we can only blame each other. That's what the people in the territory of the former Yugoslavia don't do. We don't need to talk about divisions, we need to talk about additions. We're too small a people to share more. In the last hundred years of the 20th century, only Serbs have not had any growth in the Balkans. Greeks 35%, Bulgarians 38%, in Romania 45%, Serbs 0%, Turks 400%, Albanians 700% for 100 years of growth. That's why we don't have time to deal with divisions. We're supposed to be doing additions, multiplying, raising the economy. We need to unite around the trouble we've gotten into. All the energy to devote to the solution, to the torment and trouble that has united us and united us to make a country, a land of free and a home of the brave. To raise the economy to our feet and then we will be respected by all the others who have divided us, using each other against each other. So my message for the end, don't let them divide us further and use us against each other, let us unite and let us once come to our senses, make one nation to measure the people, where our people will be less barefoot, less hungry, less poor, to make a strong economy that can bring progress. So united to lift us up, and we're witnesses from the judges, gentlemen of the future prosecutors, that in the past 15 years or 30 years when we were first threatened, and inside we were stolen, and turned around since 2000, we've been stolen more from the inside than from the outside. We're witnessing that only the eagles on our coat of arms didn't steal from us. So I call upon you to unite, not to divide, but to gather and multiply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49243	The word has a National MP, Slobodan Veličković.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49244	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try to say something about amendments to the Law on Violences, or my observation of this law, since there have been a lot of talk about other laws. The bill in front of the MPs presents a kind of first revision of the applicable Law on Violations, which has been in place since early 2014, and which was essentially reformed in the area of criminal law, in Serbia's legal system after decades. These changes, as structured, represent subliminal practical experiences in the application of the new Law, where, based on experience from practice, fine correction of norms in those parts where their current text was an obstacle to better application, and is complemented by certain provisions that have proved to be effective. At the outset, the proposer carefully dedicated himself to the Institute of Violation, popular mandates imposed on the spot by police officers and officials of other authorities who supervise the application of the law when the perpetrator finds himself in the execution of the offence and by bringing the amount of fines that can be prescribed by municipalities and cities to their decisions. It should be noted here that most of these mandates, i.e. The penalties prescribed in the fixed amount relating to the offence in the area of road safety, and that the other resolution ministries did not adequately recognise the quality of the Institute's criminal order, so that in most laws, the high sentence remained defined alternatively. in the minimum and maximum amount. In that case, the criminal order cannot be issued, but proceedings must be conducted before the court, which further complicates and collects the criminal proceedings. I hope that this problem will be seen and corrected in the future, as this will make it much better to achieve the purpose of the existence of criminal sanctions, and on the other hand, it will simplify and cheapen the procedure. Furthermore, the draft law regulates proceedings before a second-degree court, harmonising the provisions on the course of proceedings before a second-degree court with the provisions of the CAP, which makes the Law on Infringements a legal logical continent in the Penal Rights Corps. The rules on the delivery of calls are then also regulated, decisions. Generally, delivery rules as well as the delivery procedure itself are the biggest problem of a misdemeanour, as due to the inability to deliver and deliberate avoidance of court documents in the largest number of cases, there is an obsolescence of criminal prosecution, and the inability to determine criminal liability and sanctions. In a proposed way, the provisions on the delivery of an absent person are complemented by the fact that the court will now check with the competent authority of the residence register whether the address is registered as residence before the other delivery attempt at the same address. However, I believe that this provision is not sufficiently formalised, and in this sense I have tabled an amendment to the proposed member to clarify the intensity of the promoter, as well as to allow the police, as the authority keeping the records of the residence from the court, to obtain feedback and to take possible steps to monitor the application of the Law on residence and residence of citizens. The law provides for the possibility of issuing an infringement order in electronic form, which is a newspaper that introduces a modern way of making and delivering acts in a court procedure, which is yet to be brought to life in the future, which in many ways would shorten the procedure and reduce the costs of the proceedings. An electronic infringement order would be drawn up and delivered in accordance with the provisions of the law governing the electronic document. The possibility of issuing a general order for bringing in, on the basis of which the police would call for a person who avoids reporting to the court, was also extended, thus allowing the person sought to be brought to the court when routine traffic police control is carried out. It also extended the possibility of police detention of a person found in the conduct of a misdemeanor, without a court ruling, in the event that he suspects that he will repeat the offence or avoid the conduct of a misdemeanour procedure. Here or I didn't understand it properly, or I don't understand it, but I don't know why and how the person will assess in a traffic violation that unless I've tied the belt, I'm going to continue avoiding the punishment procedure. Dear fellow Members, the provision of maximum guarantee has also been amended as a measure of ensuring the presence of the accused during the procedure, so that it is proposed to be up to the maximum amount of the prescribed penalty. The paper proposed in the scope of an agreement on the recognition of infringements, as a way of sort of settlement of the state authority as a claimant and accused, represents an amendment to the provision on the level of punishment, which can be negotiated by way of a derogation from a solution so far that would be the highest amount of the prescribed penalty for a specific offence, while it is now proposed to be the lowest amount prescribed in this law for that type of punishment. In particular, and for example, regardless of the fact that a fine of 50,000 dinars is prescribed for a concrete offence for a minimum amount of 50,000 dinars for a natural person, the applicant and the accused may agree that a fine of 10,000 dinars may be imposed in the event of recognition of the accused, which is the lower limit within which a fine may be prescribed and imposed at all. This solution is much more appropriate to the material opportunities in Serbia, and we believe that everyone will certainly have much greater effects than before. It is also possible for the applicant to request and indictees to negotiate and agree on a safeguard measure, which has not been the case so far, and has in practice proved to be a limiting factor in the application of the Institute's plea agreement. This is most obvious in the domain of traffic offences that are most massive, where, for example, the protection measure of the ban on driving a motor vehicle is often pronounced, whose pronunciation of the accused may rarely cost the loss of a job, which in itself is inappropriately high and severe sanctions for such a type of violation of the law. Another important solution is introduced by the Institute of the Register of Fines, which recently started functioning and is publicly available via the Internet, which registers all unpaid fines. Additional sanctions are now being imposed in the event of non-payment of penalties, in this sense that citizens will not be allowed to issue and register driving and traffic licences unless they have settled their obligations. This ensures the collection of fines imposed and without further involvement of the state apparatus for their forced collection, as shown in practice by both expensive and inefficient. The PUPS parliamentary group will vote in voting day for these amendments and additions to the Law on Violations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49245	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49246	Ladies and gentlemen, I think this is the first time that we People's MPs of the New Party have not submitted to the draft laws that have come from the Government any amendments that correct irregularities in the spelling and grammar of the Serbian language. For the first time, we don't have that kind of amendment, and here I want to announce that, based on the criteria of respect for Serbian spelling and grammar, these are very good bill proposals, without even one of our interventions, gentlemen. For me, since these years and nine months, as far as I think I am concerned and committed to doing my job as a MP, it's a big deal, since, Mr Selakovic, there has been no case and we didn't have to intervene amendmentally on a large number of legislative projects and this way. It's a good thing you've sent to the National Assembly for this bill! I'm sure that's your first credit, but also your associates and associates, I believe Mrs. Nelle, too. Another thing, gentlemen, I also appreciate one fundamentality in the approach of the person who comes to our National Assembly to explain legislative projects. I appreciate it very much and appreciate Minister Selakovic's mention of certain names here today, that their importance is once again recorded for our common history here on a bill of law. Geca Kon, Oscar Davicho, Archibald Rice, Stanislav Vinaver, and also Moša Pijada, who belongs to another ideological time, another ideological framework, but rightly, I think, respected gentlemen, mentioned in the context of our debate here today. The third thing, systematic persecution and orientation towards the extermination of members of an entire community, Jewish in this case, is one of the elements of a political ideology, a modern political ideology remembered in the history of civilization by crime and crime, which is a Nazi political ideology. I think it's very good that the minister is here today and that a large number of MPs have participated in the debate, condemned and announced that they will always participate in the fight against systematic persecution and orientation of any person on this planet, not just in our country, towards the extermination of members of an entire community, in this case Jewish. I also appreciate that Minister Selakovic today used this occasion to point out very precise and certain information and consequences of the actions of individuals in our country in our space. Dear gentlemen, when we talk about collaborationism, about associates of those who have promoted Nazi ideology, it is never appropriate to enter into whether one of us knows what kind of man was this private, whether in their heads were these or those ideas, but it is always only appropriate to measure the consequences of their actions. I also congratulate Minister Selakovic today for very appropriate assessment of the consequences of action and Milan Nedic during World War II. I believe that this text, which has been spoken here, was appropriate to what is the dignity of our legislative body, our National Assembly. I also think, gentlemen, that even in some cases that are modern, and even in our country, we should react to all the elements in which we recognize something that is related to racism and anti-Semitism and similar things, regardless of what we can imagine that a man, when representing the name of an institution, may come from a position of ignorance, so in that sense he speaks of some genetic codes, for example, or similar things, but that veil of ignorance cannot justify anyone and these people must consult, must have associates who know, and it is an obligation for all of us, when we see something that smells of any element of Nazism, even if it's said and not known, to declare the position that we are fighting it and to condemn it. I must also resent Mr. Tomic this time for the debate and for the choice of judges, however, we have not pointed out, Mr. Tomic, the great principles to which those people who are going to perform their duties are bound. I'm okay with it. There's a chance. But when we talk about it in the congregation, we can't miss that opportunity.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49247	Time. Thank you. Of course. Nejko Jovanovic is not here. Balsa Bozovic is not here. The word is made by MP Dragan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49248	Madam Parliament Speaker, honourable Minister Selakovic and his associates, dear colleagues from the Supreme Council of the Judicial and State Council, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today's debate confirms that the government of the Republic of Serbia is working at full capacity, brings proposals to the National Assembly, before us MPs and MPs and regardless of the announcement of an extraordinary parliamentary election, we are ready to do so here and do so from Monday to Friday. Every time you come here to this Parliament, we welcome you. I am convinced that the Ministry of Justice, and I do not have the exact number of arrivals, was most often in this House. For these two years or for a year and 10 months, you have given the highest number of draft laws, proposals for additions and amendments to laws and additions. That's what I'm grateful for. Today, we have a law before us that has obviously caused the biggest controversy and obviously the greatest attention of all Serbian citizens. It is shown that the MPs themselves feel that the citizens of Serbia are most interested in this topic, which is the law you gave and it is about the bill to remove the consequences of the confiscation of the victims of the Holocaust that do not have living legal heirs. So we are now correcting a historic injustice, a major crime committed in Serbia between 6 April 1941 and 9 May 1945. I wouldn't get into who's guilty. I would not like to turn this parliament into a courtroom, although there were prosecutors here today, there were also judges, there were those who gave the verdicts to Mr Milan Nedic, the unfortunate man in the unfortunate time, in the most unfortunate period for Serbs in the 20th century. They all died. And the Jews died in World War II, and the Armenians died in World War I, and the Serbs died in World War I and World War II. I mean, me and my ancestors, and my heirs, we won't feel guilty about what happened. I express my deep regret that crimes like this have happened. These people were taken from life first, and then all their property was taken from them. The state of Serbia, by adopting such a law, and I am convinced that by consensus we will adopt it in this House by all parliamentary groups, in a fair way compensates for what is guilty, what happened in its territory, but without its political will and without the wish of the Serbian people to take anyone's life because then the Serbian people fought for their lives, to save their own country, their own country. That is why, as a parliamentary group, we will, of course, give full support to vote for this law. Since you have today proposed other laws, which are in some way in the note regarding a number of discussions that have been focused only on this Holocaust law, I would have touched the amendments and additions to the Law on Infringements, in particular Article 336, where it is predicted that unless you have paid the penalty and if you have not paid the costs of the infringement procedure, you will not be issued a driver's license, you will not be able to obtain a registration certificate, you will not be able to obtain a registration permit. This is getting much more benign compared to what is now foreseen. So, the moment you get a solution to punishment from a criminal judge, which is a fine, you didn't pay that fine within the time limit, the party, the judge brings a solution, and that fine is transferred to prison by a thousand dinars costing one prison day, no more than 60 days. If you don't pay back then, the police are coming, they're taking you to a sentence. Now, I just want to say, what's easier for the party, whether when he goes to register a car or gets a driver's license, he gets a warning that he can't do it and he can't pay the fine, or if there's a house ringing the police, puts handcuffs on him, and then leads him to a punishment, and then we have an unloved scene where a relative is called, comes in fast, happens that even someone gets arrested on Sundays when they don't work mail, and then the family goes to the border crossings, and then he pays the fine, so he brings, if his cousin doesn't get his friend out of jail. Therefore, this is also a newspaper that contributes to better legal certainty. Some changes are also foreseen to speed up this infringement procedure. What's very important about what I think today is that no one wanted to say anything from the MPs, and here I feel a deep need for that, is the choice of members for the High Council of the judiciary and the choice of members for the State's Major Prosecutors. The way it was implemented is to admire. No complaints, no objections. That choice was like a democratic election. The election took place in secret. He could have run the most he thought had a standoff with his colleagues, who thought he was worth it, and he'd be a winner. Of course, not everyone who thought of it could win, and of course we all think best of ourselves. They have won the most trusted colleagues they work with, directly or indirectly. In this way, we'll fill out the council of justice, the High Council of the Judiciary, once called the judiciary, so that's why this relapse remained, and the State's Major Prosecutors. I'm taking advantage of the opportunity to congratulate the colleagues we're going to choose in voting day. I want them to continue to, together with you who are already very experienced in this, work in the way we've done this four years, counting since 2012, when the criteria and criteria for selecting judges, prosecutors, electing the president of the courts and prosecutors have been fully established, and when these criteria are, to the greatest extent possible, respected in this House, and especially by these two very important bodies that I mentioned and which will now be in full composition, or with some people who have more will, more energy and who will just fit into the old team and make one team that is made up of those experienced and young, but full of energy and talent. It is clear that there are these criteria and these criteria. It is clear that for the choice of judges and presidents there is what is called training, what is called preparedness to perform that function, as well as what is called dignity. Obviously, there is great interest in the Serbian court's election. There is a reason why it is clear to all of our colleagues that it is chosen in a transparent way. You don't need to get some party's consent anymore. You do not need to visit municipal and city committees of parties in power. You don't need to call any of the MPs to get him to do your job or intervene. I have said it several times, and I will now say -- never for these four years have I been a member of the People's Parliament, nor any of the People's MPs of the Serbian Progressive Party, come to intervene, because they realized that now the choice is being made within the collective where they were working, because they are seeking the opinion of the general session of the court in which they were working, as well as directly the senior court or state body where they were doing the work. They're looking for an average in college, they're asking if they passed a judicial exam with a medal and if they stood out in the work they were doing. And all candidates who have been proposed by the High Council of the judiciary so far have had a recommendation – it is particularly said. It's very important for their further progress. I am convinced that all these proposals you have made, and you have proposals for the basic courts in Vranj, for the Vranj crime court, the Niš infringement court, the basic courts in Aleksinac, Negotina, Pirote, Kruševec, Kragujevac, Prepolje, Ivanjica, Kraljena, Čačka, Priboj, all of them eagerly await that this proposal that you have given us will be adopted and we will certainly be in the Voting Day, it will be Friday, voting for all of what you have proposed, without any desire to interfere with your proposal. We've never done that before. We've never challenged your decision. What's also remarkable and may be unpleasant, but what you're going to do is make life happen and that's a proposal for a court president in Valjevo, Mrs. Ljiljana Karac. The proposal was reasoned by the minister of justice, accepted by the High Council of the judiciary, passed by the Committee on the Justice of the Republic of Parliament, were heard and all made statements related to this case and I am sorry. The other day, because of the reckless sentence of one minister, we changed it, and this, you will admit, is much more than one sentence, this is an irregularity that must not be tolerated, and therefore, too, since we have raised the scale for all, morale and respect for legal provisions must be what characterizes us all, any mistake, and even unconscious, there must be consensus. The President of the Court must not make such a mistake. This is a reminder to all the presidents of the courts in the Republic of Serbia. For that, and for all this that the Ministry of Justice has done in a year and 10 months, I will vote for all these proposals as a member of Parliament, as well as my parliamentary group. What I expect from Justice Minister Nikola Selakovic is that after the next elections and for the third time he is elected minister of justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49249	Thank you. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49250	I can say that on behalf of the Turnover Movement, I will support and vote in favour of the Law on the removal of property from the victims of the Holocaust who do not have living heirs. I cannot vote for other laws and election proposals, because I believe that the election of prosecutors, judges, lately are the elections that represent the will of the party in power, and less the decision that is according to professional and other criteria. I'm not going to talk about it in particular today, because I think I've said enough about it in some previous debates. I will refer to the law that you have proposed and concerning the moral satisfaction of the Jewish people for the sacrifices that this people suffered in the Holocaust, therefore, in World War II. There's no money that can pay one human sacrifice. And this law is not a law that pays for a life taken by a fascist regime. To be clear, we didn't mention today, both children and their parents and old people, just because they were other religions and nations. I have this personal relationship with that question and every time you wake up, in some way with me, and a memory and a story in the family that I grew up in. So my family is a family that was decimated in the camps of the then Reich and my family had been killed, even little children who were even younger than seven years old. I must say that even the name I bear is the name of a Jewish anti-fascism fighter, or his nickname that was a Serbian nickname. That name was mentioned today. However, more about the Holocaust, I learned from my friend Eliza Barkan, a professor at Columbia University, who wrote the book “The Blame of the Nation” and described the way the victims of the Holocaust were materially satisfactory, but also the moral satisfactions of the victims of the Holocaust, or the Jewish people. This book is not written as a historical novel, but as a book that should serve future generations how to apply such things never again. And he specifically explained in that book the relationship of the Jewish and German people and the way of reconciliation between those two peoples and the way of financial satisfaction and moral satisfaction. In that sense, this law is a civilization achievement that I only want to say a few sentences about. As I was saying at the outset, he cannot compensate for any human sacrifice suffered in World War II, or death in the Holocaust, especially those he refers to, who virtually did not leave their successors behind. As a result, I was moved today by some discussions that relativated the victims in World War II and co-operation with the occupier. However, this law can serve as a moral satisfaction for the Jewish people, the Jewish community in Serbia, which is small, few, which has disappeared from these premises due to murders through the Holocaust, or killings in these areas, but also because of economic migration. So many of them left these areas after World War II. This law can serve...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49251	Time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49252	Just two more sentences, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49253	No, two sentences would be six minutes. Thank you. That's after the election. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49254	Thank you. The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here I am once to agree with the previous speaker in one piece. So I, too, strongly support today's draft laws. Unlike him, I support all the bill proposals, and he only supported the bill to remove the consequences of the confiscation of property to Holocaust victims who do not have living legal heirs. I am pleased to say, with the full consensus we have reached today, therefore, which has been reached on this bill and I am pleased to see it done. I am glad for the goals we will achieve by this law. I wouldn't particularly stick around on this subject, I wouldn't deepen the debate that is being debated today and started, because my distinguished colleague Martinovic held in the afternoon part of the session one, I would say, historic hour. He gave a lecture of history that, I am deeply convinced, the MPs should be happy to have the opportunity to listen. Although the objections to his exposure here were expressed by the MPs who were not at that time in the O.R. But, okay. When it comes to other bill proposals, which the previous speakers will not vote for, which he found fit to criticise us for, I must say that, to put it this way, a parliamentary struggle has actually taught us parliamentary practice, that sometimes more important than what is said, who is talking. So it's very important that we determine who criticises when the criticism is brought out. So let's see who's criticizing these proposals. They're criticizing MPs who represent no one, absolutely no one. Those are not my words, these are the words of the president of one parliamentary party about the previous speaker. So, in order for someone to be critical, they must represent someone. On the other hand, today certain criticisms about today's draft laws were made by an MP who exercised power, i.e. to say, was a member of the ruling party at the time when the full devastation of Serbia's judiciary was carried out. A catastrophic reform of the judiciary, a disastrous re-election of judges. So, I'm saying again, don't believe me, that's not my word, that's the Venice Commission's assessment. Do I need to read how the judges were elected at the time, when the previous speaker, who is now not in the O.R., exercised power? We read this here on several occasions, and Mr Babic and Mr Martinovic set as an example of the Municipality of Vlasotince, or municipal committees throughout Serbia, the Democratic Party, which at their party forums, made decisions for their party bodies on the choice of judges, the election of prosecutors, etc. Should I read? I don't think I should read. The example is in favour of how they even experienced it, as they liked to call it, a judicial reform, which I will repeat, by the Venice Commission was assessed as catastrophic. Today, we listen to criticism from those same MPs who then exercised power, today are not in power, fortunately. Meanwhile, they joined from various parties, one DS, another DS, and then founded some NGOs, thus continuing their political engagement. So, I have cited all of this in order to reject such criticism as completely unfounded, and for all the reasons that are highlighted today in the afternoon part of the session and by the Secretary-General but also by representatives of all parliamentary groups, therefore, I would really not want to repeat everything that has already been said. I will allow myself, perhaps, in two sentences, to say that when it comes to the bill of removal of property from the victims of the Holocaust, that if there is a people who know what Jews have been through during World War II, then it is the Serbian people. If there is a people who can understand the suffering and horror the Jews experienced during World War II, it is the Serbian people. If there's a people who can be compassionate enough with them, it's us. Once again, I am pleased that a full consensus has been reached. On the other hand, I would like to take the opportunity, Mr. Minister, to congratulate your assistant, Mrs. Nelli Kuburovic, on a prestigious and significant award and recognition she has recently received as a reformer of the year by NAEDA. It is in addition to the fact that during this term, Mr. Minister, you have hired very high-quality, expert associates in your ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49255	The word is Vesna Martinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49256	Thank you. I'm glad that right now in this part of the assembly session, I'm going to have the opportunity to speak to the Minister myself, because there are some dilemmas and some misunderstandings concerning the Law of Infractions, and I would like to clarify them with you today. What seems to me to be something contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is the proposal contained in this bill, that fined persons who have not paid fines, costs of proceedings and obligations are not allowed to issue a driver's license or registration of a vehicle. It seems to me that such a proposal directly threatens the Constitution of guaranteed rights, such as the right to property, the right to work, the right to freedom of movement. In addition, one of the colleagues already warned during the debate today that there were similar solutions in some previous period concerning ID cards and passports and that the Constitutional Court then assessed it as something contrary to the Constitution. Here the question arises whether this proposed legislative solution is going towards facilitating the position of citizens or whether it has been worked out that the state does not actually have the capacity to implement and implement those decisions made by its state authorities. I think, if this is another issue, that in that case the state has no right to restrict and condition citizens that the right to driver's license, registration of a vehicle is subject to paid fines. A little more than a month ago here in this House of the Assembly, you spoke to the ministers about how the Law on execution and security is one of the wonders of efficiency and that you believe that, under such a law, courts and public executioners will quickly and effectively enforce and charge those claims that concern, among other things, the fines, so I ask whether this proposed solution practically recognises the ineffectiveness of courts and public executioners? What I really don't think is good, is the introduction of this system, let's put it in nice words to say "you give me-you". You pay the fine, I give you the driver's license, because if it turned the other way, that would mean that the citizens could say – give me back my withdrawal, I'll pay you a fine. I don't think it's a good thing, that both in this way and in that system, the rule of law and the orderly system are not being built. The second point concerns the denial of the right to appeal damaged in a misdemeanour proceedings in the event of a verdict by the Criminal Court which adopts an agreement on the recognition of the offence. The Government's proposal also provides for me to read – the Court's decision on the recognition agreement shall be delivered to the authorising applicant and to the defendant, if any. Earlier, it was intended to be delivered to both the damaged and his proxies, if any. Now it's gone. This may make sense in case it is a decision to reject or reject the agreement, but if an agreement is adopted, it shall consist of a point of criminal proceedings and nothing more logical than that damaged in the infringement proceedings having knowledge of what agreement has been reached and what penalty has been imposed on the accused, in particular because the infringement proceedings have no direct damage. These are mostly procedures for the protection of a public interest. But it is precisely because it does not appear damaged in any infringement procedure, because not all infringement proceedings are not traffic offences, but from areas and work and employment relations, health and social security, education, public security, etc. So, we have damaged persons who have an interest in knowing what agreement has been reached on the recognition of the offence, which has been imposed on the defendant on the basis of the agreement. This is how you rule out his right to receive that information. Consequently, if these decisions are not delivered to him, then, of course, there is no right to appeal, because there is nothing to complain about unless the decision has even been delivered to him, which I think is a direct violation of the Constitution of a guaranteed right to appeal to anyone, including a damaged person whose right or upon a legitimately based interest is decided by any judicial or decision of another state authority. In order to be effective, you have ruled out the hearing at which the agreement is to be decided. I don't think that's good, because a court that decides on acceptance, whether or not to adopt an agreement should find, among other things, that the accused has been consciously and voluntarily confessed to the offence, that the accused is fully aware of all the consequences of the concluded agreement, etc. I'm afraid that, under the agreement itself, it cannot be determined without having previously held a hearing. I understand the need for a quick and effective conclusion, but I think these circumstances, which depend on the court's decision to adopt or reject the proposed agreement, are not possible without holding a hearing. Thank you. Once I get the answers to these questions, I'll decide if I'll answer it again.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49257	Thank you. The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49258	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the Parliament, I listen carefully to my distinguished colleague and I cannot without reacting to certain statements and visions. If it were true that the proposed amendments to the Law on Violations, in Article 336 of the current law, define us as, quotes - I will give you, give me the state, the end of the quote, then, for example, one of the Federal Republics of Germany, which we consider an ideal and a model of legal order and rule of law in Europe. You may not have known it, but I'd like to bring one piece of knowledge closer to you. A person who doesn't pay a regular phone bill in Germany in no single bank can raise a loan. There's no right to a permit, because then that wouldn't be called a license. The state is the only sovereign to issue permits. Having a motor vehicle, allowing you to manage it and allowing that vehicle to be in traffic on roads in the Republic of Serbia is not a right, it is a privilege. And the right to decide on the availability of such a licence is solely and exclusively owned by the state and no one else. On the other hand, when I listened to the discussion, or the presentation, one thing remained completely unclear to me. You're saying that the state has the right to impose a fine of 50,000 dinars, so if that fine doesn't pay in time, it turns into 50 days in prison and for not paying the fine it can deprive you of your freedom, but for God's sake, it can't deprive you of your driver's license or motor vehicle. Maybe someone here can find logic, I can't find it. For me, human freedom is much higher and higher than the ability to drive a motor vehicle or own a motor vehicle registered for traffic in the Republic of Serbia. If this proposed member were unconstitutional, I don't share that opinion. I'll tell you what I'm based on. I am relying on it precisely because this proposal by the last member of the law, which proposes to amend the existing text of the law, essentially specifies the current provision which is much broader. The law was adopted in November 2013, applicable from 1 March 2014. I don't know if anyone initiated the procedure for assessing the constitutionality of this member we're precisioning today. For the sake of reminders, I will quote the current Article 336 of the Law, which says, for the purpose of the collection of fines, the costs of the proceedings and other fines awarded, which are recorded in the register of fines, the fined person until the amount fully settled, will not be allowed: under one, assurances for which the competent authorities of the administration are issued, other than those relating to the personal status, two, the refund of the deprived persons and other documents withdrawn under Article 199 of this Act, and three, registration, i.e. a change in the registration of a legal person or registration of entrepreneurial activity, which means the change of the PIB.I. We are significantly detailing the proposed changes and deprive each type of improvisation, so that someone does not think of denying our citizen the right to own, for example, health books, ID cards, passports, travel documents. You can't limit that. There are opinions that even you can limit it, because if you can deprive someone of their freedom for not paying the penalty, and what is higher and greater value, only human life, of freedom. Legally regulated denials in Europe, in the democratic world, on other continents, rest on predictability and accountability. In talks with the President of the Criminal Court of Appeals, Mr Pasalic and the Criminal Court in Belgrade, Mr Marinovic, they gave me the information that there was a person who had, thank God, no more, because this law introduced an order in the area of crime, there were persons who had not been paid 35.40 fines. Given the difficult availability of law enforcement authorities, everything went out of date, they played the law. Under the new law, they can hardly do that. If you deny them this kind of privilege, again I say privilege, because I don't see the difference between denying someone the possibility of having a firearm and owning a car. We can now enter into the particulars of a particular one, but all that has the epithet of a permit, the one who betrays it can also deny it, if the law prescribes a basic reason to deny such a thing. So I don't see why this member would be a problem. For me, it is a member who should act both sanctioningly, but also preventively, that everyone knows very well, unless he pays or settles the punishment he is punished for, what follows him. Pure legal predictability. One of the key features of the rule of law and the rule of law. As far as the plea agreement is concerned, I would sign every word of yours that there is no Article 236. The law on infringements which, as an essential element of the agreement or attestation of the agreement in its position on the fourth point of view, says that the recognition agreement does not violate the rights of damage. Therefore, an agreement on the recognition of the offence cannot be confirmed if that agreement violates the rights of the damaged person, and it automatically argues that we are right by this approach, that you may have missed the view of that important element, the condition for confirming the agreement on the recognition of the offence. I, moreover, think that the approach that we have demonstrated here in proposing amendments and supplementing this law is something that is good for both the state and the citizens, which allows much more efficiency. An esteemed colleague used a syntagma, I don't know why and why, perhaps exaggeratingly, because I know that it is not known in a harsh language, speaking, for the law of execution and security by saying, quote – a miracle of efficiency. I don't know if that was supposed to be ironic or not. That law is considered an extremely good law. As many things have been respected what, when we adopted the Law on Infringements in November 2013, and today this law is one of the most successful parts of judicial reform, I honestly and responsibly claim both to the Law on Enforcement and Security, and I quote, is it said that this solution recognises the ineffectiveness of judicial execution? When it comes to the enforcement of decisions of a criminal court, there is no jurisdiction of public enforcement officers and they are not touched at all by this law. So I think there's been a little slip, but anyway, what I'd like to finish this exposure, which we all need to be clear, the license isn't right, the license is a privilege. The person who issues the permit shall also be entitled to deny it when the prescribed conditions are laid down by law as non-existent or existing or obstacles that exist in order for the issue to take place. Like I said, there are those who claim that it shouldn't be just a car registration, a driver's license, a traffic license, a car checkout, that it should be much wider. As you can see, in attitude 2, we've left an opportunity for other regulations to be foreseen and something like that. Of course, it's in the debate when such other regulations may one day come here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49259	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mrs. Martinovic, do you want a replica? (Vesna Martinović, from town: Yes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49260	Thank you. So in this section of the permit, probably the Constitutional Court will decide that, I would not further extend the discussion. Minister, please, it won't take us far from stubbornness, I believe you understand the absurde of the provision you yourself quoted, and where you say the agreement won't be approved if the rights are violated. Isn't it absurd that the protection of the rights of the damaged person is cared for by the court, and that the same injured person has no right to the court's decision to care for his right? It's absurd. So I didn't miss whether the court took care of it or not. Of course he's leading. The Court's task is to protect the rights and the defendant and the damaged and the public interest, etc., but the essence of the fact that the damage to whose law is also taken into account when deciding whether or not to accept the agreement has no information on the decision of the infringement court on the agreement. It's absurd. That's what I'm talking about. I also think that if the court adopts the proposed agreement, the damaged person has no right to appeal, because perhaps the court misjudged his rights and interests, etc., and accepted the agreement. That's what I'm talking about. We have proposed amendments that correct this proposed text and I ask you to think again before deciding on these amendments about the essence of the situation damaged in this situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49261	Thank you, Mrs. Martinovic. The word has a minister. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49262	Thank you. I'll quote you, and you won't blame me. It won't get you too far. The end of the quote. On the one hand, you're right, but we're not talking about criminal proceedings. The infringement procedure implies a much shorter, much faster, more efficient treatment of short periods of limitations and a respected predecessor made a very good note in her first presentation and said that the most frequent infringements stand out when there is a threat or damage to what is public good or what is public interest. There are violations in which we can say that there are also persons that are directly damaged. Let's just say, the employer doesn't report a worker. For me, there was damage to the worker in the first place, and the state was damaged, but the worker agreed to it, and he knew very well when the unconscious employer hired him not to pay taxes and contributions, and that's quite clear. So, the damaged one himself has accepted the execution of the offence at his own expense. Did someone force him to do that? No, I don't. I've set a concrete example. I don't think you're right. I think there's too much noise here about something she shouldn't be around. The court will not adopt a ruling on the recognition of the offence if such an agreement violates the rights of the damaged person. It's very clear in the law. In any case, the Law also provides for the possibility of making an emergency remedy. So there's the possibility of an emergency remedy, so I don't see any controversy at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49263	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has a folk emissary of the Jellysavet the Beacon. Here you go, Mrs. Pryket.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49264	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, respected representatives of the ministry, distinguished fellow MPs, we are facing today a set of judicial laws and I will briefly look back at some of them in my presentation. Today, many historical facts have been expressed here regarding the suffering of the Jewish people during World War II, and I will not repeat myself, a team before I think that an analysis of historical events should be left to historians. I'll abide by the law alone. The restitution in the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the return of property seized and compensation from 2011 was initiated, and after 9 May 1945, the return of property was taken from natural and legal persons and transferred to state, social or cooperative property. The provisions of this law also refer to the return of property whose confiscation is due to the Holocaust on our country's territory, but also to the fact that this matter will be regulated by a special law when it comes to the assets of Holocaust victims, who do not have living heirs. This bill to remove the consequences of the confiscation of the victims of the Holocaust, which do not have living legal heirs, foresees and regulates the way, conditions and procedure for the return of the seized property that was on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which was as a consequence of the Holocaust taken away by members of the Jewish community. It also envisions the financial support of the Republic of Serbia to the Jewish community and thus the government of the Republic of Serbia expresses its understanding for the loss of the Jewish people in our territory during the enemy occupation. In addition to the principle of the protection of asset holders and the public principle, I think it is important to highlight the urgency of all state authorities, especially archives that have the documentation and data needed to exercise the right to return to property. The deadline for the delivery of that data shall be 30 days. As for the financial support of the Republic of Serbia, it will be made through the Ministry of Finance through payment of money from the Republic of Serbia's budget at the expense of the Union of Jewish municipalities of 950,000 euros at the level of the calendar year for a period of 25 years, starting on 1 January 2017. In the case of a return procedure, it is clearly defined who are parties to the procedure, who is the applicant, to whom the request is submitted, what is its content and what the authority sees the procedure, both first-degree and second-degree, when administrative dispute can be initiated, as well as deadlines in which the right can be achieved. It is also precisely defined and procedured after a judicial solution which determines the property transferred to the property owned by the Jewish municipality, as regards the registration of property in the immobility register. The focus of the funds achieved by returning immovableity and receiving financial support from the Republic of Serbia is also specified, thus forming a committee for the supervision and control of financial resources, whose members are representatives of the government, two representatives of the World Community of the Jewish Organisation for Restitution in the Republic of Serbia and two representatives of the Alliance. The government's representative appointed the government for a period of four years, and he is also chairman of the board. What needs to be highlighted here is the possibility of hiring an external auditor who conducts an annual auditor of all the activities that the Union of Jewish municipalities are carrying out. The creation of a management programme, as well as the submission of management reports, the revenues of the Union of Jewish Municipalitys, is also prescribed. I think it is particularly important to point out that the declaration from Terezin signed by the Republic of Serbia in 2009 has obliged all members to be one of the priorities of solving all problems and all needs related to the surviving victims of the Nazi era, which are now in recent years. In this way, it is contributed not to forget the history and heritage of the Holocaust, and what is the commitment of the Union of Jewish municipalities is to keep a constant and up-to-date record of former owners who will be available to the public. When it comes to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Violences, it provides for several amendments and additions to the already existing Law on Infringements. The proposed amendments provide for an increase in the maximum amount of fixed penalties to be prescribed in order to allow for the processing of a larger number of infringements by issuing an infringement order. It is also possible for the Parliaments of AP, municipalities and cities to prescribe fines at a fixed amount, but only up to one half of the maximum amount prescribed for fixed penalties. In this way, the amount will be leveled for all local self-government. A brand-new member of 154a is also foreseen. which regulates the decision of the second-degree court by only condemning a first-degree decision in the same case. The council decides if they'll hold a search. The Council may, on appeal, alter the verdict, in which case the defendant may file a complaint against a second-degree ruling decided by the second-degree court. This bill precisely regulates the delivery in writing to the defendant's address. The issuing of an infringement order in electronic form which must be certified by a qualified electronic signature of an authorised person shall be foreseen. The possibility is that a copy of the warrant in electronic form be given to the perpetrator of the offence on-site. A new member of 189a. the issuing of a general order to bring in the defendant on the run or to avoid bringing in. In that case, the criminal court shall provide the authorities with a warrant to order a warrant to enable more effective search, especially multiple returnees, with the possibility of retaining up to 24 hours. This law also determines the amount of the guarantee, the provisions relating to the Agreement on the recognition of the offence, its application, the amount of the fine. The agreement is passed by a verdict, not a solution, as it has been the case so far. What is important is to point out that the law accurately determines what the consequences of enrolment are in the register of fines, so if the punished person does not fully settle the amount owed will not have certain benefits in terms of issuing a driving licence, trial permit, vehicle registration, etc. This bill is in line with the provisions of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities, their Member States and the Republic of Serbia, as well as other EU agreements and legal assets. As regards the draft law amending and supplementing the law on the regulation of courts, it is clear that it refers only to the deadline set for the taking over of certain responsibilities of the ministry responsible for the judiciary, by the VSS and it shall be moved by 1 January 2017. Of course, there is a need to provide the necessary conditions, and for these reasons that deadline and shifts. In voting day, I, like my fellow SNS, will vote for the proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49265	I'd like to thank Mrs. O'Brian. The word has a folk MP Ivana Stojiljković.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49266	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, today we have a set of judicial laws, all of which are of great quality and, of course, I will, as well as most of my colleagues, look to one of the most important laws, the law of historical importance, and this is the Law on removing property from the victims of the Holocaust who do not have living legal heirs. The law will first and foremost correct historical injustice, correct the injustice that happened to the Jews who were injured in the Holocaust and round up the return process, which has already been initiated by the 2011 Property Return and Compensation Act. This is, to mention, one of the formal reasons for passing this law. The second is because the Republic of Serbia is a signatory, one of the 47 signatories of the 2009 Teresa Declaration, which has just been envisaged and envisioned what to do with the property that will be returned and which has no legal heirs. It is primarily intended to address the material needs of the endangered survivors of the Holocaust, then to education in the Holocaust, cultural, religious and national lives of Jews, as well as to preserve the maintenance of memorials and memorial sites. What I would like to mention first of all is that this law, that is, the reason for the adoption, is primarily our moral obligation and our people's deep compassion and this authority with the Jewish people who died in World War II, with the desire to put an end to all the consequences of the Holocaust, or not to remain in force. Although the Republic of Serbia has not participated in this persecution and killing of Jews, neither in taking away their property in any way, it should definitely be noted that it is very necessary for such a law to be passed. First of all, Serbia was in a very difficult situation that year in World War II, 1941, all torn apart, so that it could help someone. She couldn't give it to anyone, no matter what nationality the people were, because she was simply threatened herself. But what we have confirmed today, all together and many writings, is that Serbs and Jews have taken care and respect together and that is what these two people are proud of. For that reason, this law that is before us is even more important. Once again, I will mention the fact that out of the 34,000 Jews living in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, only 20% of the living heirs were left, and 80% were killed in the Holocaust. So, the individual restitution itself is a very rare case in return for property. After the war, a large part of the seized property had just run out of heirs and remained in the possession of the Republic of Serbia, a unit of local self-government, state and public enterprises, which should certainly not be the case, because, as I have already noted, Serbia was not involved in this crime in any way and should not benefit from the consequences of the Holocaust. Also, the largest number of these facilities should be noted that in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Subotica and Nis, as well as some indicative number of around 2,975 are only immovable objects, but there are also a number of other goods. The return of this property will be done in natural form, as already provided for by the 2011 Property Return Act. Also, as a form of removing these consequences, the Republic of Serbia has provided for a payment with this law, i.e. an estimated 950,000 euros per year from the budget over the next 25 years. This, of course, will be spent transparently, will be paid at the expense of the Union of Jewish municipalities and, of course, the purpose is already, as I said, defined. First of all, this law should serve and I am very glad that this law is passed today, and we have seen that the representatives of the Jewish municipalities are also very pleased with this law, so the quality of the law is before us and everyone has made a positive statement. First of all, I am glad that it will set an example for other countries to carry out one of their moral obligations towards these great and unremembered injuries, with a clear view, of course, of each country, in this case, of our country as our opinion and attitude on it. It has been made very clear through this law and, of course, with the desire for this kind of suffering never to happen again and again to anyone. I will, in addition, take a brief look at the other law that is before us, and these are amendments and additions to the Law of Infringements. Therefore, breaking legislation always changes with a view to reducing this type of delinquent to the least possible level, as well as ensuring easier and better collection of criminal penalties. This is why today is not a large number of changes, but rather a quality law, but simply these provisions have come to a slightly worse application. I will only look at a few provisions, because one number of amendments and additions solves the issue of sending letters to the absent person, because this has proved to be a significant problem, so it is introduced that, if the accused after two attempts to deliver letters to him and by checking, of course, the addresses by the court, if this is not possible, are displayed in writing on the advertisement board or website and or the internal website of the court. Then, amendments to Articles 170 and 172 provide for the possibility of issuing an infringement order and in electronic form, and that is defined – the above-mentioned order and the delivery method. Also, if the defendant is charged with escape and avoids being brought in, this is a very important change, so from now on, the criminal court will be able to issue a general order for bringing in, which is being delivered to the police for pursuit. So far, the police have only been able to search for the defendant at the address delivered in the warrant, and now the defendants will be able to be found and detained by any search or routine control. In particular, I would refer to very significant amendments to Article 20, which specify the consequences of enrolment in the register of fines, i.e. the consequences of issuing and extending documents. So it's about the ID card, the traffic permit or the issue of license plates. The portal, which opened on January 27th of this year, is available on the Internet, and it is called the Unpaid Penalty Portal, which is no longer a hidden offence, and this is very important. Therefore, it is one centralised electronic database that introduced all data on unpaid penalties, costs of proceedings and other amounts given through a final and executive infringement order. So, all the misdemeanor courts are now networked, all of which can easily, by one click, come up with this information and no longer need to send correspondence across Serbia and waste time. This will allow judges to work faster and better, and will also allow their efficiency, both judges and courts, to be monitored. In view of the fact that the state has been incometing about 16.7m euros since the law on violations was applied, as of 1 March 2014, it can definitely be said that the infringement courts are among the three first chargers of the state budget. Now, if we see that there are currently about 2 million items in the system from all over Serbia, we can definitely expect better collection and faster collection of criminal penalties, and thus reduce such violations. I found out from the Department of Justice off the record and soon a portal was announced to monitor the course of cases for criminal courts, which is indeed commendable, because citizens will have the opportunity to monitor how far their case has arrived. All of this is the basis for a more efficient, more transparent and fairer judiciary. Since these are only two in a series of very high-quality law in the field of justice, there are 13 others and we expect a lot more, certainly we will vote in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49267	Thank you, Mrs Stojiljkovic. The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go, Mrs. Vukoicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49268	The Honorable chairman, respected ministers with associates, fellow Members of Parliament and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, is my great pleasure and honor that as a MP today at a debate here in the National Assembly after 71 years, the draft law on the removal of property from Holocaust victims who do not have living legal heirs comes in line. So 71 years were to pass and a government was to appear with full compassion for the victims of Jews who were tortured and killed in World War II in the period from 6 April 1941 to 9 May 1945 to discuss the victims of the Holocaust and the return of their property. So it is a government that has full responsibility, full compassion, full respect for the victims, but also a government that is distanced from all the responsibilities of the Republic of Serbia committed to the Jewish people in that time in the territory of our Republic. What I particularly want to point out is that Serbian and Jewish people are friendly peoples, that the Jewish people, or Israel state, did not recognise Kosovo's independence, that our people in the Republic of Serbia have what to learn and what to learn, first of all, about work, about education, about responsibility, about diligence, about respect and preservation of their country. This law is also absolutely in line with the National Programme for the adoption of EU legal flows for the period 2004-2018. He's on the government's 2016 agenda and today he's here with the MPs. What I must especially point out is that this law defines precisely and clearly the way and procedure for the return of property, defining which institution is competent to apply, which is the Agency for Restitution. A deadline is defined in which a solution is necessary, which is six months, in more complex cases and up to one year, the second-degree procedure is defined, which is also important, and the second-degree procedure is the Ministry of Finance. It is defined, of course, and the launch of a administrative dispute, so that legal certainty is fully achieved. What I would also like to point out is that it is precise and clearly taxing that all the funds that can be used in the name of the Jewish people, who unfortunately have passed away, who have no living heirs, can be used. What I particularly want to point out is that they can be used to educate young talent, to use for humanitarian purposes, to use themselves to study holocausts, so that it never happens again, to be used as one historical boker for all those crimes and crimes that the German fascists and Nazis have done towards the Jewish people, but I must point out, and to the Serbian people, because we must not forget to shoot students in Kragujevac, nor to shoot thousands of people in the King and also to suffer Roma, who have been killed as Serbs in these areas. I'll be held for a short time at the amendments and additions to the Law of Infractions. The law is reform, it came into force on 1 April 2014, was reform. But what I want to praise the Ministry is that we did not pass the Law on 1 March 2014, that it did not remain an empty letter on paper, but that the implementation of this law was followed, and precisely on the basis of the difficulties that occurred in practice and in the application of the Law on Violation, today are on the agenda of amendments and additions to the Law. Otherwise, as far as the sanctions provided for by the Law on Infringements are concerned, those are sanctions relating to the fact that it is not possible to issue a driver's license, check out a vehicle, registration of plates, provisional plates, etc., I mean that every law should have two aspects. The first aspect is sanctions, penalties, and the second requirement of any law that may be the first, it's a preventive character. So conflicting with the law and committing crimes and criminal acts is socially unacceptable and must be punished. The message to citizens is that they do not come into conflict with the law, that Serbia becomes a decent country and, of course, everyone must respect the laws. Also, I would like to point out the opinion of the High Council of the Judiciary concerning the appointment of judges. I'm just going to be held at the judge of the primary court in Prepolje and the primary court in Priboj. So, respecting all those criteria, judicial assistants, it's one judge's assistant in Priboj and two judicial assistants in Prepolje, they'll be appointed to judicial office. I also want to commend the High Council of the judiciary, because it also took care of the national composition of the municipality of Prepolje, so there is one Serb and the other Bosniak among the two judicial assistants. The Serbian Progressive Party, of course, will support all proposed laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49269	Thank you, Mrs. Vukoicic. The word has a folk MP Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49270	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Ministers with fellow Members, colleagues and fellow MPs, in my presentation, I will remain on the bill to remove the consequences of the confiscation of property to Holocaust victims who do not have living legal heirs. I would like to say that this bill is another confirmation that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by Prime Minister Alexander Vukic and the Resort Ministry, is responsible for resolving this very important issue. Serbia, as we know, is a signator of the 2009 Teresa Declaration, but Serbia is today, according to Mrs Ellen Heller, the first country to adopt such a law. The promise made by the Ministry of Justice, Mr. Nikola Selakovic, to Mrs. Ellen Heller, a judge from the World Jewish Organisation for Restitution, is fulfilled today's session and by the adoption of this bill as a whole. On this occasion I want to remind myself of the following -- that in our country, in our Serbia there used to be people who called themselves Serbs of Moses' faith. These people, our fellow citizens, along with us, with our ancestors for good and for bad kept this country, built it, defended it and treated it as their own. There are countless written clues and testimony about their participation in both Balkan wars and the First World War, countless oral testimony about their support for the general good and assistance of the majority Serb people. Then at the time of World War II, there was the greatest destruction of all Jewish in Europe of that time where there was no place for Serbs, nor Jews, nor Roma. Not only were they killed because they were Jews, but all their property was confiscated, i.e. taken away. No one has passed in that agony. All the families, from the oldest to the youngest, disappeared all the small settlements. They were literally all sent on a journey without coming back, in a grant they didn't deserve anything. Of course, Serbia feels a drinking sensation toward the victims of the injured Jews and all the other victims of the Holocaust. We know that during World War II some 33,000 Jews lived on our country's territory, and over 23,000 Jews died in the Holocaust. This law, we are aware, cannot bring back the victims, nor reduce the sufferings of survivors and those who still mourn the injured Jews today, but can make a contribution to the satisfaction of justice for the injured Jews in the Holocaust. The government of Serbia and the Resort Ministry not only respect and fulfil domestic and international obligations, since we are signatories of this Terezena Declaration, but above all their civilization and moral obligation not to forget the Jewish and all the other victims of the Holocaust. As witnesses of today and listeners to the terrible stories of the past, we want to preserve the memory of these people, return what has not been taken away in our name, and never forget what happened to the good people of Moses ’ faith to the Serbs. In voting day, my SNS parliamentary group, like me, will support this bill and all other bill proposals on today's agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49271	I thank Mrs. Mrdakovic Todorovic. The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić. Here you go, Mr. Bojanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49272	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry, the State Council of Prosecutors and the High Council of the Judiciary, it was as great a pleasure to meet you as always when Mr. Minister is here and when the topics and laws he proposes are on the agenda and which he defends in front of the National Assembly, the Honorable Mr. Minister. A lot is said about all of the proposed laws and I'm just going to do one short retrospective, I'm going to start with a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Infringements. During 2013, we brought together a quality and good bill in this same session, namely the law that started and came into force since March 2014. Just what you suggested today, and what we've been discussing all day, only the complements and improvements of the already existing law have been observed. So I'm sure these amendments and additions will bring a lot of things. As far as the Law on the Regulation of Courts is concerned, again, it has been noted and concluded, that the deadline given to the High Council of the Court of Justice is not realistic and for this very reason you suggest that it be here instead of 2016, 2017. Also today, there are two laws before us and two laws concerning defence, namely the military, and these are laws that confirm that the Republic of Serbia and now represents what it has been representing since 2012, to turn to the world, to co-operate, and also in the domain of defence with all world states and with all organizations regarding the military. There are also proposals, appointments and resolutions and by the High Council of the judiciary and by the State Council of Prosecutors, and normally these are professional proposals which the Parliament in the voting day will accept, and I especially am pleased to notice that the proposals, and I am a patriot, above all the suggestions of the State Council of Prosecutors, see that in the State Council of Prosecutors two candidates are from my city, from the Kingdom, which is another plus. In the end, I'm going to say a word about that law that we've been discussing all day today and that in all the discussions and all the discussions was the roof law. I won't talk about the Teresa Declaration, I won't say about all those good proposals in this bill on how to pay, how the deadlines, how the funds should be spent, and why the purpose, or about the 25-year period in which the state of Serbia will pay 950,000 euros, I will return to what it has carried out throughout the day's discussion that both the Serbian and Jewish people have experienced a great deal from 1941 to 1945. When I say so, I can say with the right to say that the city where I was born, where I live and now, the King's experience of the great 14th of October in the King happened, again I am a patriot's local, a terrible act, history will tell how many were killed. Once upon a time, when I was a child there were 6,000 victims in a recent time history changed something now is 1,800, 1,700, it doesn't matter, that even 100 people died is a huge number. I won't be long because there are a lot of colleagues and colleagues behind me who are going to talk, who are waiting to speak, I'm going to mention besides all the personalities mentioned here today by our tall, smart and statesmen and thinkers, I'm going to mention only Daniel Kish. Danilo Kish is exactly the basis for all of this that we said today. Danilo Kish, who was a Jew, who was shot in Auschwitz and the mother of the Serbian, or Montenegrin woman from Cetinje. Danilo Kish, who wrote a wonderful prose piece, are "Early Misery", his childhood, a pogrom from "The Street of chestnuts" and there to the meadows who want to read – will understand everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49273	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Susan Sharac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49274	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, respected colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, esteemed citizens, presently there are a set of laws and decisions in the field of justice, as well as proposals for a law confirming the defence agreement. In my presentation, I would focus on the bill to remove the consequences of confiscation of property to Holocaust victims who do not have living legal heirs. First, I would stress that there are terrible and devastating facts that 34 lived on the territory of today's Republic of Serbia before World War II. Thousands of Jews, and nearly 90% of that population was killed during the Holocaust from April 6, 1941 to May 9, 1945, which I find unimaginable 31. Thousands of Jewish victims. They suffered mostly whole families from babies to old people, so significant assets were lost by the titleholders, i.e. heirs. There were strong Jewish communities in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Subotics and Nis. The most property under this bill is supposed to be in Belgrade. Here we have an example of the upper Dorcol, where there were many shops, apartments and entire buildings belonging to and owned by Jewish families. With this bill, the state of Serbia, its government headed by Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic wants to ease the injustice committed to Holocaust victims who do not have heirs by paying 950,000 euros each year to the Jewish communities in our country not only to return property taken from those victims. The seized property is now in most cases owned by the Republic of Serbia or individual units of local self-government, state or public enterprises. And if, of course, the state did not participate in the persecution of the Jewish people, it should not benefit from such an unloved historical event. The fundamental reason for the law's passing is deep compassion, primarily the Serbian people and representatives of the Serbian government according to the great victims of the Jewish people during World War II. The other two reasons are formal nature. The first reason is that the 2011 Reimbursement Act provides for the provisions of Article 5(4) that the removal of the consequences of the confiscation of the victims of the Holocaust without living heirs will be governed by a special law. That's exactly the law we're about to pass. Secondly, because the Republic of Serbia is a signator of the Teresa Declaration which advocates the principles and principles prescribed by this very bill that is before us today. This proposal provides for the return of the property in question to be carried out in a natural form which is identical to the way prescribed by the General Act on the return of assets and compensation and in accordance with its respective principles and with the same exceptions. It has been specified that applicants of the law will be a Jewish municipality whose territory is seized property. Also, property will naturally return to that Jewish municipality whose territory is property and located. Another way of removing it is financial support provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget, as I have already mentioned. This type of support has been specified to be 950,000 euros annually and over the next 25 years since the law was passed. These funds will be paid at the expense of the Union of Jewish municipalities. The law also sets out precisely and precisely what activities the funds can be directed at which is very important. The data resources should go towards studying the Holocaust, for research related to the Holocaust, then for education on this area, for funding the schooling of young talents of the Republic of Serbia, providing financial assistance to the survivors of the Holocaust, then to the Jewish community in Serbia, and of course, the inevitable costs incurred by managing these revenues. The proposal also provides for the education of the Supervisory Board with the task of monitoring how these funds are managed. The chairman of the Supervisory Board will be a representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and the other members will be two representatives of the World Jewish Organisation for Restitution in the Republic of Serbia and representatives of the Alliance. I must point out that their representatives and participated in the drafting of the draft of this bill, which is commendable. When the law is passed, and I'm sure everyone here will vote for it, there will be a collection of claims for the return of property, after which will know the exact number and value of the seized property from the victims of the holocaust without an heir. The deadline for submitting requests as we have already heard today is three years and after the expiry of that deadline, as I said, will be known both the volume and the value of the seized property. At the very end, I would point out that this is great, I can freely say the civilizational step that this government has made and that I can only be proud to be able to vote in favour of this law, which provides primarily justice to the Jewish community for all the horrors that the Jewish families went through in World War II. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49275	Thank you, Mrs. Charac. Ljiljana Malusic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49276	I thank the chairman. Dear viewers, I will talk today about the bill to remove the consequences of the confiscation of property to victims of holocausts. This human law deals with the return of property to victims of holocausts who do not have living legal heirs. Unfortunately, when I talk about this, I don't feel well, like all my dear colleagues in this tall home, but I'm proud of the law we're making, because when I think of the Holocaust, I remember all the victims from all sides, Jews, Serbs, Roma. The Holocaust, the Greek word for extermination. The period from 6 April 1941 when Belgrade was bombed until 9 March 1945 when Nazism capitulated. Any, it didn't happen again. Unfortunately, it happened, it didn't happen again, what to say about the victims, there were them in World War II, Jews six million. In Belgrade, the capital, there are the most victims. A total of 31,000 Jews in that country. I'm talking about this with piety, and I'm glad that the Republic of Serbia, headed by our Ministry and Prime Minister, has ever passed such a law on restitution, of course this is all going to the Jewish communities, is coming back to the assets and organizations that were now active in the Jewish communities, and I'm very happy about that. It is very important to note both the conditions and the ways in which this will be done. Namely, it will be a 25-year period, and the amount at an annual level will be 950,000 euros. Bravo for the Government of the Republic of Serbia, this is one human law. We thus demonstrate all empathy and democracy toward the Jews, our dear friends from whom we can learn much, above all, that they have preserved their country and other self-respect. What I would point out is that we are also signatories of the Declaration, the Teresin Declaration in the Czech Republic, in the city of Teresino, from which thousands of European Jews went to death camps. In fact, we are one of the signatories, there are 49 countries in the EU that have brought this declaration and it is wonderful that we are also one of the signatories thanks to this government. What to say, the money that the Jewish community will receive, of course, goes to maybe improve the material condition of the people who survived these horrors of war, also to mark important dates for memorials. History is the teacher of life, and I hope this never happens again to anyone, even though we're witnessing actual wars, one goes by, the other comes. I hope that the powers of the world will one day realize that this leads to self-destruction, that is, the destruction of this beautiful planet. I hope, since I'm a pacifist, he'll hear, I'm sure the mass of the world's mind population as well as I am that war should never be again. Thank you for your attention. The Serbian Progressive Party will vote in favour of the proposal for this human and wonderful law in Dan.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49277	Thank you, Mrs. Malusic. The word is made by MP Boban Birmancevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49278	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, honored fellow MPs, respected citizens, on today's agenda, the first item is really very important and it has been 71 years since these events. Finally, one government, one MP, one parliamentary decision to adopt a bill that should have been passed at least 50 years ago, and it is indeed a great honor for me to be a member of that majority of SNS who is the initiator of a law like this. About the importance of adopting such a law is said enough, but what is important is that I also want to point out that all citizens of Serbia, given the events not only in World War II, but also in World War I, through the history of events in wars in the former Yugoslavia, it is clear that each citizen of Serbia will support and support such and similar laws. All that's said is enough, so in my address, I'm going to move a little bit on to some of the other laws that were a little bit neglected, above all the Law on Infractions, which in two years' time has made a major change in the scene of resolution, i.e. the resolutions of all the violations, i.e. the collection of the same ones, and the very fact that 75% of the charges of the offense are indeed an example of voluntary payment, which clearly shows how well the legal solutions we adopted two years ago were good and good quality. It is precisely this increase in the efficiency of the collection process itself and in the business of misdemeanor courts, through this revision of the law that will be achieved. It is impossible not to skip, not to say anything about the proposal we received for the appointment, that is to say, of the judge, of the President of the Basic Court in Valjevo, indeed for every commendation. It is this proposal, which is explained and explained to the point, perhaps for the first time in the practice of this Parliament, that citizens have the opportunity to hear how they are changing and why one President of the Basic Court in Valjevo is changing with accurate data and what shows that this majority, this government and this Ministry simply does not tolerate injustice. No one has the right to abuse their position, their function, and all those who work past the law and do not work in the interests of citizens will simply be replaced, even if it is the President of the Basic Court. If this were not the case in earlier practices of the Ministry of Justice, let us only remember in 2010 and January 2010, when 837 judges and 220 deputy prosecutors were left without a job, i.e. were resolved. Of course, this was not in line with the law and that these were returned after a certain time, and that material compensation was made to them, but we are talking about the attitude that people were changed, or that they were not voted to their jobs because they were not responding to someone. One of the motions to appoint a judge of the Criminal Court in Šapec just shows that justice is slow, but it is available. It was Milenko Mihic, who was proposed as judge of the Criminal Court in Valjev, who made a decision at the time of the Lord of Life and Death, which was Dusan Petrovic, although he was in two terms president of the Association of Judges for Crimes, although he had an impeccable record, Dusan Petrovic was dismissed from the seat of the Judge of the Criminal Court. Now, five years later, this man returns to the judiciary, returns to the Criminal Court, which shows that justice is really slow, but in the case of this Ministry and this Government, it is still available. In Voting Day, we will support these proposals, with a special emphasis on the one who is the first in today's debate, which is the law on eliminating the consequences of the Holocaust victims, which only shows that this government is ready to pass all those laws that no one in the previous 70 years has been prepared in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49279	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49280	Dear Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr. Becic, Mr. Justice Minister, Selakovic with his associates, gentlemen of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, Mr. Zorana Babiæ, I am speaking to Mr. Zorana Babiæ and tonight to you, because you are the only president of all 12 members of this high house. This speaks not only of you, but also of your relationship with the citizens of Serbia, as well as of the relationship of the entire Serbian Progressive Party to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, we have before us proposals for legislation and proposals for decisions in the area of justice. My smallness has no intention of talking about bill proposals, because the predecessors did it better than I did, and Mr. Minister better than I explained. Let me just say one sentence, that the bill to remove the consequences of the confiscation of property to Holocaust victims who do not have living legal heirs, I am not going as a man of the profession to speak, because you, Mr. Selakovic, have explained phenomenally and your Jewish grades are phenomenal. I'm just saying that it's not just about you as a minister of justice and your ministry and the government of the Republic of Serbia in general, it's about you in the front row as a man. Let me say that there are also proposals for a decision on the choice of judges who are first elected to the court office, which I will briefly say just a few words. This is about extraordinary candidates, as they say, and very good grades that all candidates received when studying at law school, which is one of the criteria for their election. I would like to emphasise what is very important, which the board of the High Council of Judges for Elections has carried out a review of the applications submitted to the ad, determined their well-being and completeness, held a conversation with candidates who were first elected to the court office. Also, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the commission has given an assessment of whether the candidates meet the conditions, i.e. criteria and criteria for selecting judges. It is common to all candidates that the commission found that the candidates met all criteria and criteria for evaluation, expertise, training and dignity. But why am I saying all this? Ladies and gentlemen, because at the time of the former regime, these criteria were not respected, leading to the fact that our judiciary was before you, Mr. Minister Selakovic, headed the Justice Ministry "the worst in Europe". It ranged from unremembered scandals in the staffing and exorcising of judges to unbalanced crimes, so that the judiciary rocked like a building prone to fall. How will you, gentlemen of the former regime explain the fact that some of the judges died of injustice and some of the judges committed suicide? How will you, gentlemen of the former regime, explain the fact that you also elected the dead judge, the late Ljubisa Djurovic, although the chairman of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, Mrs Nata Mesarovic, said that all candidates, believe it or not, were checked and that 200 hours were spent to check, so for a month? I don't know how she was checking up on a dead judge. How will you, gentlemen of the former regime explain the fact that you chose as judges of people who have never worked in the judiciary, which is not the case now, you saw today in these judges? How will you, gentlemen of the former regime explain the fact that you did not select a district judge who was on the list among the five best judges? Do you know why you didn't pick her? Because her husband was a lawyer, and he worked as an investigative judge, he made a first-degree verdict in the case of Curuvija and defended Goran Knezevic. How will you, gentlemen of the former regime explain the fact that you chose Sonja Brkic as judge, who violated the Law on Judges, because she also served as Judge of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Serbia and President of the RIK? The judge's law expressly forbids it. It thus unlawfully took 2,673,000 dinars in the RIK in 2008. She refused to pay that money back. There, gentlemen, were your criteria in the previous regime. That's why the European Commission's 2010 report said, quote a sentence – The reforms that the government is carrying out, meaning, formerly, in 2010, it is a special concern, completed, from the book "Court Reform, Serbia 2008, page 96. The same European Commission continues - the judge's re-election process was non-transparent and risking the principle of independence, finished a quote. Gentlemen of the former regime, the reforms you have carried out in the judiciary were, I quote, as the worst possible thing, the completion of the quote, from the European Commission, also published our "Politics" 7. Seven. In 2012, on page 4. As you arrive, Mr. Selakovic, Mr. Justice Minister, at the head of this ministry, the situation has improved significantly and is getting better every day. These are the assessments of the most important European officials, and not only of them, but of us, the MPs. What is important, Serbia's judiciary improves every day. Let me point out that in 2014, however, when conditions were difficult for our judiciary, because in the first row a new network of courts was restored, and the Bar of Lawyers decided not to participate in the trial for four months and two more, so, all in six months, it was fixed by one whole 4% compared to the previous years. I mean, when all the elements about the work of the courts are collected in 2015, and hopefully in this high house, we'll hear that, too, it'll be extremely good results. All in all, these are very good laws. The Serbian Progressive Party, my predecessors said, will cast a vote in voter's Day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49281	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49282	Thank you. Dear Mr. Minister, distinguished representatives of the courts and prosecutors, distinguished fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic, and I come from the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, that is Svrljig municipality, which is next to the most beautiful city in Serbia, which is the town of Nis. Now, like my fellow MPs, I will talk about the bill to remove the consequences of the confiscation of property to the victims of the Holocaust who do not have living heirs. I think this is one of the most important suggestions for today. In particular, this way we'll correct a mistake that hasn't been made in 71 years. We're all witnessing events and speeches as they were. We heard just before you, Minister, when you said what was done in 1941, 1942, when our representatives of that time were doing some negative things to the harm of the Jewish people, where we witnessed that a large number of people were killed, disappeared, where all the families disappeared. I will now look back at the town of Nis, the surrounding Southeast Serbia, at the centre of southeastern Serbia, and that is Nis, where there were a large number of Jews in the Roman era, that during the Turkish occupation it was the same Jewish community, was a Jewish school. Before the start of World War II in Nis, there were 360 Jews who worked as veterinarians, doctors, merchants, and the rest were very good hosts. After the end of World War II, only four of them were left. They were all killed in a camp on the Red Cross, in a camp where over 30,000 people were killed, where not only Jews, Roma, but gypsies were missing. I will now remind all of you from this place and other citizens who will later watch this transfer of the Assembly, that in Nis in two days it will be marked February 12th, and that is the day that the prisoners in Europe were organized for the first time and fled from the Red Cross camp, where 105 of these people remained alive, 46 died. Among them were a large number of Jews. The first among them to lead the rebellion was Branko Begovic, whose name is a settlement in Nis. I'm saying this for the very reason that both at the Red Cross and in Nis that camp was very frequent, a large number of people were killed. We have to remember everything that's happened. I am as a man and as a national MP very pleased that you have now put this bill to the vote today, to give the Jewish community the opportunity to have some satisfaction, that these funds, which are allocated for the next 25 years from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, 950,000 euros, since 1 January 2017... I think that's correct, that's fair. I think it should be remembered never to forget what was done from 1941 to 1045. I will also vote for this second set of laws that you have proposed today as a representative of the United Peasant Party from the SNS list. I think your ministry and you, as minister, are one of the most successful justice ministers in the multiparty system. I really respect your work, the work of your ministry, because a lot of mistakes have been corrected, a lot of things have been done for the benefit of all citizens of our country of Serbia. We must restore trust in our judiciary, in our prosecution and in all those institutions in Serbia that have lost their meaning and the trust of the people in the previous period. Once again, I will invite you to stay with us in the municipality of Srlig and visit the court unit of the Criminal Court together with you to fix some of the things that are there and to make it even better and more successful for all citizens in the Srlig itself, both at the level of the Low Region and throughout Serbia. I, as an MP, will vote in favour of a set of all these laws of pleasure and of all the laws proposed by the Government headed by our prime minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49283	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49284	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must first explain why next to my name on the list of speakers is “undetermined. ” Not because I have no opinion on the bill's proposals, but in this way I have shown my dissatisfaction and dissatisfaction with our parliamentary group in the way this session is scheduled and how the points discussed today are united in a single debate in principle. Namely, the agenda is listed in the February 6th office and the session is scheduled for the weekend. We had only Monday to get to the material, to study, and within this item of the agenda there was a debate on 17 points of the agenda. You have to admit that not all dots are connected, that there are points that really have nothing to do with each other, which is also broken by the Rules of Procedure, because it predicts the unification of points that are connected to each other. The fact that most MPs voted is not an excuse to put on the agenda at all to unite points that are not connected to each other, because one can suggest and vote that today is Monday and that most votes. Will we believe it's Monday? No, of course not. I would ask the ruling majority not to respond to these remarks by saying how much the previous regime has been uniting agendas at a session. I can honestly say, since I am already the fourth term in this assembly, the previous regime has paid the price in the elections and the current ruling majority can probably draw some positive conclusions from that and not make the same mistakes. Of course, I won't be sorry if they pay the price, but because of Serbian citizens, I don't think it's right and it's wrong not to leave enough time for such important laws to be examined and to prepare a quality amendment, if there is a need at all, and a quality discussion. I would now, however, move to consider individual laws, and first of all, I will say something about the bill to remove the consequences of the confiscation of property to victims of holocausts who do not have living legal heirs, because I consider it to be the most important law to be considered within this item of the agenda. After the laws passed from this area in our judicial system, as was still 90 years ago, the Law on the Return of Land was taken from the established legal maximum and confiscated by people's enemies, because then in the 1990s, I participated in the country's return process in local self-government and realized how many injustices were experienced by the people to whom the country was taken away. Then, through the Reimbursement Act, the seized property and compensation that he would really want to carry out a little faster from the heart. I guess there are a lot of circumstances that are slowing down and making it harder, but because of the justice we want to achieve, it needs to be speeded up. This law represents in some way a rounding of the overall correction of the injustice that was done to citizens living in Serbia in one period and taking away the property they had. What I've gotten the impression, reading this bill, is that it's very detailed and very systematically written and that at least for now it shouldn't, for this reading, as long as I've had time, be a problem in application. Article 1 defines, first of all, the subject of the regulation of the law and is defined to regulate the conditions, arrangements, procedure for the return of property taken from members of the Jewish community who do not have legal heirs and the return of property to organisations that were in the functions of the Jewish community at the time of the confiscation. Then, Article 2 detailedly regulates the concepts of the law. I will also refer to Article 3 that defines the concept of Holocaust in the sense of this law. This term is a definition of international law, and it is a well-known term, but I think it is a good idea that, for the purposes of this law, the Holocaust represents a time from 6 April 1941 to 9 May 1945, in which the occupier and his associates in the territory of today's Republic of Serbia systematically persecuted and killed members of the Jewish community, destroyed and seized the property of Jews regardless of their nationality and Jewish organizations based on racist provisions, regulations and acts of the Nazi regime, and I will not convince the entire law. What I would point out as positive, I don't think anyone has mentioned it today, is that Article 10 provides for the acquisition of assets and the achievement of revenue in the form of financial support under this law to be subject to the payment of any kind of tax of administrative and judicial fees and compensation to state authorities and organisations, I think it's okay to correct one injustice that this release should stand in the law itself. It would also point out that it is very positive that certain purposes for which the funds will be used are to study the Holocaust, to scholarship those involved in the study, to mark various anniversarys and events so that they will constantly be reminded of the horrors of the Holocaust, so that it will never be forgotten and that it will never be repeated, and that financial support will be given to the survivors of the Holocaust who had residence in the territory of the Republic of Serbia at the time of the Holocaust and who are currently living in the Republic of Serbia or abroad, and I think it is indeed positive. This bill not only completes a set of laws that regulates the return of property and injustice, but also fulfils the obligation that Serbia, as the signator of the 2009 Teresa Declaration, accepted. The declaration was signed in Terezin, Czech Republic, where they were killed and where they were sent to the death camps of thousands of European Jews and other victims of Nazi persecution during World War II. The declaration was declared by representatives of 49 countries and the EU, which is also very important because we are classified as democratic countries clearly anti-fascistally defined. And, the only thing we intervened in the amendment was our idea to amend the provisions governing the procurement of documents, i.e. I will discuss this in more detail when amendments are made, to provide that the state authorities who possess documents are obliged to conduct the procedure to obtain from other state authorities and the document organisations necessary for the conduct of the procedure and to decide. We believe that this would fully provide satisfaction to those who need to be returned to the property, and in other things such a procedure would also be in line with the principles laid down in the draft law on general administrative procedure, which is already under way here in the National Assembly. The second thing I want to talk about is a bill of amendments and additions to the Law of Infractions. Since we have already talked a lot about this law, I will not abide by all the provisions, the newspapers you are introducing in order to speed up the process, and I think it is good that the law is being followed and that in time there are shortcomings or opportunities to improve the application, especially the procedural laws in the judiciary have great meaning, so I think it's good that you came out with this bill to say, improve some parts or to correct some shortcomings. I'd only stay on Article 20 that changes Article 336, and I don't think it's until the end of the line. In the last position, it is said – a special law can also provide for temporary denial of the issue or the importance of other permits and documents. I find this problematic, how can the Law of Infractions allow the legislator to propose that the legislator or the National Assembly adopt some special law? Namely, the responsibilities of the National Assembly are established by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Law on the Assembly. There is no specific law to determine any other jurisdiction, and here it is predicted that the special laws that this assembly has to pass, because it is the only one competent to pass the laws, can predict the measures I have said. I would also like to place remarks on the measures made to this member, which are being denied. That's what some of my predecessors used to say, and you explained to the ministers that if someone were to give permission...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49285	Time, Mrs. Korach.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49286	He has the right to deny it. Let me just say we have one more amendment, but we'll talk about it in the law in particular.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49287	Thank you. The word of the People's Messenger is Svetislav Vukmirica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49288	The Honorable Chairman, ministers with associates, honourable MPs, in today's presentation, I will put an accent on the Law on the elimination of consequences, the confiscation of property to Holocaust victims who do not have living legal heirs. I'll probably repeat in my discussion and say something my predecessors said, but the importance of this law simply obliges me to do so. For the sake of reminders, the restitution procedure was initiated in 2011 by the adoption of the Return Act of the taken property and the compensation which regulated the terms, manner and procedure of return of the seized property and the compensation for the seized property which was transferred to the territory of the Republic of Serbia by applying rules on agrarian reform, nationalisation, as well as other regulations, i.e. acts taken from natural and certain legal persons and transferred to general national social or cooperative property. The provisions of the law provide that the removal of the consequences of the confiscation of property to the victims of the Holocaust and other victims of fascism on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which do not have living legal heirs, will be governed by a special law. The obligation to pass a special law that would regulate these issues was also taken over by the Republic of Serbia as signator of the Terezin Declaration adopted in 2009 in Terezin, in the Czech Republic, which urged the participating countries to make every effort to correct the consequences of the unfair confiscation of property carried out through confiscation by forced sale of property and sale under duress and which was part of the persecution of these innocent people and groups most of whom died without heirs. For all of these reasons today on the agenda is exactly the law that aims to create conditions for removing the consequences of confiscation of property to the victims of the Holocaust. It is also intended to use the property in question as a basis for addressing the material needs of endangered persons who survived the Holocaust, for permanent education on the Holocaust, its causes and consequences, to support, among other things, the establishment of a regular annual memory and memorial ceremony and to preserve memorial sites and other locations of memory of the death of the Jewish people, and to primarily include education on the Holocaust and other Nazi crimes. Then, to finance the education and scholarship of students, young talents and scientists from the Republic of Serbia, as well as to strengthen the ties of the Jewish community in the Republic of Serbia with fellow Americans in other countries. The bill also provides financial support to the Union of Jewish municipalities of Serbia, which is provided from the Republic of Serbia's budget through the finance ministry, worth 950,000 euros at the level of the calendar year, and for a period of 25 years, starting on 1 January 2017. I would take this opportunity to remind the entire public of the terrible crimes committed during World War II by members of the Jewish community. The Jewish people then suffered a huge sacrifice and suffering of inconspicuous proportions, and in Europe, 5,033,900 Jews were killed by the persecution of Nazi Germany and its associates, 67% of the total number of Jews living on the old continent at that time, while 43,000 of the Jewish community were killed by 26,000 or over 60% in Yugoslavia. The crimes did not bypass the Kikinda, where a list of 299 women, children and men of members of the Jewish community was carried out ten days after the occupation. On that occasion, all mobile and immovable property was seized, and after four months they were deported to the reception camp in Novi Becej and then the camps of Banjica and Simište. Later, only Jewish women married to Christians were released from the camp, so that only 16 Jews and children would receive the end of World War II. Otherwise, the Jews began the settlement of the area of Kickinda around 1800, despite the fact that there was a ban on the settlement of the population of other ethnic origins, and in 1800 itself, a Jewish church municipality was founded. According to the 1824 census, Kikinda had 12,334 inhabitants, 198 of whom were Jews, while in 1921, 551 residents of Kikinda were declared Jewish. According to these indicators, Jews in Kickinda were never a largely dominant population, between 1.5% and 2% of the total population, but they had a very significant share in the social and economic development of the city. The Jews were merchants, pharmacists, doctors, which can be seen in various archival buildings. The lives and activities of the Jews in Kikinda before World War II speak in their own way also today’s 200 - year - old Jewish cemetery. Also some beautiful buildings and real estate talk about the Jewish community's contribution to the general development of Kickinda. Currently, the Jewish municipality of Kickinda has 30 members and is working to preserve its memory of its ancestors and culture, so that the application of this law in every respect will help to realize its planned activities and objectives. I hereby conclude today's presentation and call on all Members of the People to support this law in the Voting Day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49289	Thank you, Mr. Vukmirica. I would now give the word to Parliamentarian Zoran Babic, head of the SNS parliamentary group, as the last to be reported for discussion. Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49290	Mr. Minister, the honourable representatives of the Justice Ministry, the distinguished representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, today's debate has shown differences in terms of certain developments in our past. But a much more important message today was sent by the Serbian parliament, a message of unity condemning the Holocaust, a message of respect for all victims and the Holocaust, as well as to all the victims of wars in the last century. I believe that the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of the Victims of the Holocaust, which do not have living legal heirs, represents another pillar, a pillar in the bridge of friendship between Serbia and Israel. Israel is a friendly state of Serbia. Israel is a country that respects the territorial integrity, sovereignty, integrity of the Republic of Serbia. Israel is a state that has not recognised the so-called so-called state. Kosovo's independence, and for this I am very grateful for that decision by Israel, and for that I am proud to be part of the Serbian parliament which today clearly demonstrated the conviction of the Holocaust, the respect of all the victims, but also made that another pillar in the bridge of friendship between our countries. This law, in my humble opinion, corrects the injustices of the past, but it is also turned to the future. This law sends a message to all Jews, living in Israel, living in America, living anywhere, sending a message that Serbia and their state, that the state that is ready to correct the injustice, that the state that is open, that the state that is ready to invest in it, that people are employed in Serbia, that in Serbia they earn, that tax is paid, that factories are opened in Serbia. That is why I would like to remind the Austrian foreign minister said a few days ago in Serbia, which is that Serbia has become an anchor of stability in this part of Europe. I am sorry that we have not shown respect for the subject that is on the agenda today. I am sorry that only the MPs from the SNS parliamentary group are present here. I'm sorry we didn't make this proposal at the beginning of today's debate, but I'll give it now at the end, which is that one minute of silence, Mr. Minister, we honor all the victims of the Holocaust, to honor all the victims that happened, unfortunately, in our premises, in our country in the last century. So let's not let one memory of them ever happen again in the future. Serbia sends a message of stability, sends a message of friendship, sends a message of peace, sends a message of what all citizens of the Republic of Serbia want, but I believe all normal and honest people. Therefore, at the end of this debate, I will call upon, unfortunately, the few MPs of the people to pay tribute one minute of silence to all the victims of the Holocaust and to all the victims of these premises, with the memory and desire that something like this never happen again. Thank you, Mr. Minister. A minute of silence. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-10-0.u49291	I thank you, Mr. Granny. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principle and uniform search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? (No) Mr. Minister, do you want a word? (No) According to Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint review of the proposals for acts referred to in points 7 to 23 of the agenda. I thank you, Mr. Minister, for you and the members of your cabinet, and also for the representatives of the High Council of the Judiciary for participating in today's session. I also thank the People's Messengers. Continuation is tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Thank you.
