ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47296	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 86 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your cards into the MPs' units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 92 MPs are present in the hall and that we have working conditions. I would like to inform you that today the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Dejan Radenkovic, Zarko Obradovic, Djordje Cabarkapa and Borislav Kovacevic. We continue our work and move on to a search in detail of the 2nd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Public Order and Peace. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You've received amendments from the Defence and Home Affairs Committee. You have received reports from the competent committees and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On Chapter I, the name above the member and Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by the MP, Prof. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47297	Dear Presidents, honourable fellow MPs, the Turnover Movement feels this law should not be passed. I believe this law allows abuses, to allow authorities, specifically the Serbian Progressive Party, to put out little free words in Serbia. Why do I say that? Well, because you've proven it before. This law should not be passed and therefore a member, a title, should be deleted, because, for example, in this law, the provision of rude conduct is contained. Who's going to interpret what rude behavior means? For example, for the Serbian Progressive Party, misbehaving, Mr Stefanovic, do not seek protection from the president of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47298	Leave the minister to speak to me whenever he wants and in what way he will. Don't interpret his thoughts, I don't think you have the ability to interpret someone's thoughts.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47299	Mr. Stefanovic, your party colleague, Becic, marked me with rude conduct and fined me with the word "county government". So, will police officers on the street who say that the Serbian Progressive Party...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47300	Thank you. It's been two minutes. Thank you. You're wasting time interpreting other people's thoughts and words, but what I'm going to do, I can't help you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47301	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, so of course I suggest that this amendment be rejected and it is totally unacceptable and the amendment itself, as well as the oral explanation that we just heard, or we haven't heard. So, just an explanation we haven't heard. We have heard some other things, some things that have no place in the discussion of details, that is, the debate on amendments and what is noticeable, it is noticeable that increased anxiety among the promoters of this amendment, therefore, with the leader of the NGO of the Turnover Movement, such as the problem and the signing of the amendment itself. We're back in a position to call it an NGO, which I have nothing against. I have no problem with Mr. Veselinovic setting up an NGO and dealing with the NGO sector. But what does this have to do with the Assembly and this law and the amendment? It doesn't matter. This nervousness that is noticeable, it is the result of something else, is the result of a failed meeting that was held the other day by the so-called "census coalition", as Mr. Babic illustrated and said a few days ago and the meeting failed. It failed because, if they could negotiate and find a common language...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47302	Ambassador and I beg you, for the amendment, just like the little one...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47303	This is an analysis of why we are in this situation today to suffer instead of discussing amendments...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47304	Please, let's get back to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47305	Anyway, for all these reasons, I suggest that this amendment be rejected.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47306	Thank you. The word is Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47307	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, out of courtesy of the political parties that make up this House, this amendment should be rejected. Explaining his amendment, the promoter spoke of decency, rudeness, so I will talk too. It is rude for us as political parties to accept the amendment of an association of citizens. Imagine that we were approached by the New Carlovci Beekeepers' Association. Imagine we've been approached by the Lyukova Liars' Association? It would be rude. It is rude for us as chiefs, members, political party officials here for days to listen to a lecture from a representative who tries to falsify a political party and introduce himself as the leader of some twist movement, etc. As far as decency is concerned, it is extremely rude because these associations of citizens can be financed from abroad. We political parties can't. They can advertise outside election campaigns, we political parties can't. They can not submit a report to the Anti-Corruption Agency and various other acts for which political parties are required, we cannot do so. He can't stand it. He can be out of control of all state authorities, including the police, we as leaders of political parties cannot. So, speaking of rudeness, I ask the representatives and members of the political parties to reject this amendment to one association of citizens composed of three members, because it is rude and what they do for the final game, where they forbid us as political representatives or members or supporters to be at one game. My colleague may be helped to propose this amendment, but he must cooperate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47308	The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47309	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Minister of the Interior Mr. Stefanovic and his associates, I am pleased to see you more and more frequently in this National Assembly, which speaks of your dedicated work, both your ministry and this high house that you chaired, Mr. Minister, in the previous period, extremely well on the satisfaction of all the MPs, regardless of the party and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I propose, Madam President, that the amendment be rejected, because it is unacceptable because it is socially very dangerous and thus useless for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of being proposed by the MP of the Turnover Movement or what the Croat brothers would say to the craftsman's association. The thread is a movement, because the movement means to organize the socially useful action it is doing, and the twist means upside down, depraved, which would mean a depraved turn. But let's get to the amendment. The citizens of the Republic of Serbia advocate public order and peace, as only in order and peace can achieve their basic needs of life. If we accepted this amendment, we would, in general, exclude violations against public order and peace, thus excluding their distinction from criminal acts prescribed by the Criminal Code. Imagine now what the MP, the promoter, proposes to delete. The amendment promoter thus, by erasing, because he proposed to delete, advocate chaos, disorder in society. I can also understand him as the MP of the former DS, and now the craftsmen, who were in chaos, unhappiness and illegality, profited personally, but therefore the citizens returned. Finally, the amendment promoter in chaos during the former regime's party achieved a certain benefit in the Street of Brace Kurjakovic 7 in Obrovec, so I can also understand him proposing that this member of the law be deleted. So I suggest that the amendment not be adopted and the SNS will certainly not adopt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47310	Thank you. Ambassador, you don't have time, you've wasted group time, and you're not a bearer. (Dragan Šutanovac, from the place: He mentioned DS in a pesorative sense. It's not in the pervasive sense. It's no big deal that someone used to be a member of your party. You didn't understand. If anything bad had been said, I would have given you my word. Don't doubt my good intentions at all. But the fact that someone was a member of your break, and it's no longer... (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: yes, but the party that stole... Is that what you think? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47311	You know perfectly what I mean, Madam President, only you don't want to hear it. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the MUP, unfortunately, we started this session in an ugly way. I don't think any of the MPs should disqualify any MP who has the amendment and who has made an effort to improve this law, in the idea of the law being in the function of all Serbian citizens, and not the MPs of the majority. If the idea of being a hero here today is to get a seat on the parliamentary list in the next election, I don't think that's the time or place. I, Madam Chairman, ask you to work on the amendments. Whether it's a move or not, I don't think it's a theme. Each MP shall be empowered to submit amendments. If that's not the case, tell us we don't have the right to submit amendments, so that...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47312	Thank you. You're not replicating the thieving, as I understand it, but only the criticism of the name of the promoter. Members of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic-SDS, the ZZS, the ZS, submitted together to the 1st amendment. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47313	Thank you. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, we have submitted an amendment to Article 1 which says – this law regulates public order and peace in public places, sets out illegal acts against public order and peace, as well as how to collect voluntary contributions. We have suggested that this: “As well as how to collect voluntary contributions” is deleted, because we believe that this cannot be defined as the subject of regulation of the law. The legislator gave us an explanation - the amendment is not accepted because the subject of the regulation of this law is public order and peace, illegal acts against public order and peace and how to collect voluntary contributions. By erasing the rest of the sentence after the words – public order and peace, as we have sought, the subject of this law would not be precisely determined, and the area of collection of a voluntary contribution which is not particularly regulated by other regulations could not be arranged. Due to the normal disorder of this area, public abuse could occur without adequate police response to establish stable public order and peace. Mr. Minister, what kind of public harassment by collecting voluntary contributions? Well, the word "voluntary" says that someone either gives or doesn't. The second is that you want to centralize everything, that you've centralized the police, and all the spheres in this society, so you want to have control when who and why is collecting voluntary contributions. It is your legitimate right, it is your policy and your way of understanding life in Serbia, but don't be so rude, because how will you prevent someone who collects voluntary contributions and who submits a application within the legal deadline from harassing citizens and not disturbing public order and peace? How do you know that? You're letting a police officer assess whether anyone can or can't collect voluntary contributions. We don't think that's right, and you should accept our amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47314	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47315	This provision was made to prevent, above all, the abuses that the citizens could see during the previous period, when we had the opportunity to see people who collected funds in different ways and thus came to the opposite advantage. This law only directs in a way that collects. But what was characteristic of no other regulation of this matter so far in the last 50 years has been arranged, but here. If we were to delete this from the Law of Public Order and Peace, which I don't think might be the happiest solution, we wouldn't have arranged this matter in terms of collecting voluntary contributions. So, I don't mind a new law being passed, but we didn't think it would be a good idea to leave the state without any neat matter, even through this law that's been governed in the last X years, since July 1992, when this law was passed and no one has minded it since July 1992. When we're able to make a new law that specifically solves matter, I don't mind being erased from this law in that sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47316	The word is from the People's MP Vuceta Toskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47317	The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if this first member were to be deleted, this member is the essence of the entire Law on Public Order and Peace, so on the basis of the first member, all the other members are attached. I can't understand that the former regime prefers some sort of chaos and peace in the country. So this law speaks of order and peace in a country like Serbia where everyone must respect the law. So we do not accept that this amendment is accepted by the promoter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47318	The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. You're giving up? Mr. Bradich, you have one minute and 33 seconds, I can give you a discussion. (Blagoje Bradić, from town: Replica. There's no replica. Under the name above Articles 2 and 2 of the amendment, MP Janko Veselinovic submitted. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47319	In comments on my previous amendment, everything except the amendment was talked about. I don't know what the water polo game is about, your shame and shame, and why you even bring it up. I didn't think you were talking today about the fact that you were whistled and that after that you wouldn't let Serbian citizens come to the game, and you wouldn't let the math kids come to the balcony. But it's your shame and shame and that's why there are elections. What is disputed about this article 1 and calls, therefore, above it? The fact that this law, among other things, is a law on collecting voluntary contributions and it would be no wonder if we hadn't become a country that works on voluntary contributions, as those citizens take, because they have nothing to eat, because you brought them into misery, from containers, so that part of Serbia through voluntary contributions from containers is fed in that way, and those who collect money so that they can treat their children, so that they can do what the state should do. That doesn't require a special law. It is necessary to regulate the country in a way that those who collect voluntary contributions are so small that it can be arranged in another way, and that most citizens can live on their work. In that sense, this amendment is to be submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47320	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47321	Unfortunately, it has absolutely nothing to do with the content of the amendments and the text of the bill. Then let me answer those things that the citizens need to know. Anyway, we're trying to make a country that I won't allow corruption and crime. I know that some people fit with such a landscaping that they can be stolen. In this country we will no longer steal, and we will not let the various mechanics who collect this or that, that God knows what he is doing and that no one else knows how to raise that money and that those kids who need that money, and that help is being collected for children who are also sick in Britain, in America, in France and Germany, only there is a way to know who's going to do it. In Serbia, you didn't know. You'll know who the money goes to and whether someone puts it in their pockets and what it's all about and through this one, but also through other laws. Unlike those who left Serbia without 400,000 jobs for a short time, the government is returning jobs to Serbia. In particular, in a serious way, and we will no longer allow the country to live on loan, from charity, but from a healthy economy, which will allow public order and peace to be respected in Serbia in the way that is foreseen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47322	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47323	It is sad and ugly when we hear in the National Assembly that, according to the amendment's promoter, it is a disgrace and a shame to become Europe's champion, as the boys of Serbia's water polo selection a few days ago did. It is sad and ugly when the amendment promoter says it is a disgrace and a shame that the European Championship in Belgrade has been organised, where the audience has shown that it is rooting for its country, where several days of the European Championship have passed without even one single incident and I am giving recognition to the audience that was, but also to the MUP that provided these gatherings and these games. There was talk of rudeness. One of the greatest rudeties is to tell a lie. One of the greatest rudeties is to lie, and then when it's lied to from a congregation pay phone, that rudeness gets a new dimension and becomes much more dangerous. We're from the amendment promoters here at the Assembly's pay phone, and in the National Assembly's lobby, and wherever they appear, they've been showered with false lies. I can now ask – how rude is it when it is claimed that the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia has spent the New Year in Dubai and that, like every other day, since being elected Prime Minister, man has been at his post? How rude is it to lie about it? How rude is it to lie about the SNS log on some non-existent water polo game? How rude is it from the amendment promoter when he's telling the truth that the SNS bought and shared 5,000 tickets? I followed that water polo match from my house, with my family, and I cheered hotly for Serbia. How rude is it to claim that there is an affair about listening, and then to recruiting an investor, such as Mrs. Lydia Udovicki? What is the responsibility for all these lies? There is no responsibility in Serbian society, one part of Serbian society, because behind one lie goes the next lie, the next affair goes. How rude is it to lie that the Prime Minister allegedly gave bribes to a proven drug addict, Kornic? For what? Then it turns out he was just a beating in other people's hands. That's rude. It is rude to use the National Assembly’s address book to promote such values, as the amendment promoter insists on doing. We are all here to exchange views, to get better solutions, to make the law better because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Will I wait for a little sorry, a little bit – yes, we are responsible for what we have said? No, for some people in this parliament, for some people on Serbia's political scene, once told a lie means only the possibility of lying still, being set up, being deceived, and the only policy being new lies and new plantings to Alexander Vukic and SNS. Do you think people in Serbia will live better than that? No, they won't, but they will live better than the finished Prokop station that Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic will open tomorrow. It'll live better because we're finishing those things you haven't been able to finish in the last decade, because you've been thinking more about your pockets, your combinations, your companies, and you haven't thought about the citizens. These are the things that separate our policies, and that's the policy that SNS will never give up on. Of course, we are in favour of refusing these groundless amendments that are even deleted, not what the amendment promoter was saying, because some people are receiving social assistance because of their policy, because of what he supported in the council, because of the loss of jobs, because of robbery privatisation, because of the devasting of our society, and now he wants even the competent authorities to delete, even the representatives of the MUP to delete. I know you're in a lot of pain that people in the M.P. are doing according to the law. I know you're in pain. I know you're in pain of such actions, but they'll be there in the future, because the SNS wants to clear our society of crime and corruption. While the SNS that fight was going to be day and night, you liked it, didn't like it. Proposed such amendments to delete the MUP, will not be deleted, but will work under the law and under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47324	The word has a folk Janko Veselinović, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47325	Mr. Babic said something I didn't mention at all. So I absolutely don't care where Alexander Vukic rests, where he winters, where he flies, where he waits for the new year, it would be best for Serbia to go on vacation all year long. On the other hand, I assume that the citizens of Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47326	Ambassador, is this a replica to Ambassador Zoran Babic or to whom?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47327	Zoranna Babic, yes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47328	You're telling him to leave?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47329	To leave Alexander Wolfie, and together with him in a package...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47330	But Alexander Wolf is not in the O.R. right now. You're replicating Zoranna Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47331	Okay. So, second thing, I didn't mention an affair of listening. I'm not interested in listening absolutely, everything I have to tell you in public, which is that you're incompetent, that you're a pest government, that you're vermin, and that this Serbia with you is going to ruin. On the other hand, when it comes to the game you were talking about, it's the gold guys who won the gold medal, but you're incompetent, and you tried to politicize that game by handing out tickets to your supporters in public enterprises, to the public sector so that ordinary citizens wouldn't be able to attend the game. A SNS membership card is a membership card for life in Serbia. That's why young mathematicians didn't have a place on the balcony...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47332	Ambassador, I have to rule you out, because it's... (Janko Vesenović, from the place: I went off myself. Did you turn yourself off? Thank you for helping me. You really were out this time. I apologize to some of you if I miss the order, I'm full of lists. The word has Minister Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47333	What it was like when some people were squirming around, and the authorities were resting, sleeping, kidnapping and stealing from disabled children, that's what we had a chance to see. Unfortunately, it has produced such tectonic disorders for Serbian citizens that we will need more time to recover from it. What the citizens of Serbia say and what they think of all this will have the opportunity to say in the elections. These Serbian citizens and their vote in the elections will show who they trust, who the people they want to give a chance to lead Serbia forward to the future, to build, to more jobs, and who they will tell that they do not want such a policy, we will see that then. What I can tell you on behalf of the government and on behalf of the Prime Minister is that we will not pay a racket to anyone. We don't intend to hand it over to anyone, to raise money from the citizens of Serbia and our property, so that someone doesn't miss writing about us, even if we don't give in, we won't give in, we'll fight for the citizens, not for the tycoons. This country's tycoon will never rule again, and while Alexander Vukic is Prime Minister, so will he.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47334	The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Markovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47335	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, so here's the paradigm of the situation that we found ourselves in today. This is the difference between us and them. This is the difference between the ruling majority, between the SNS and the proposings of this amendment, as well as those MPs who support it and are trying to help it today. So, the SNS has been trying for a long time and it's not an easy job, given what we inherited, given what you left us, trying to make Serbia a decent and orderly country. He's trying to make Serbia a normal country. This job is not easy and in all segments we try to fix the situation. We're almost on an impossible mission, given the amount of cargo you've left us. This law today and this debate and this amendment is the paradigm of what we're talking about. So, what does the amendment promoter offer? It shall offer to delete Article 1, Article 2, Article 3. Deleting even attempts to arrange the area of collection of voluntary contributions. And it bothers him, and he wants to wipe it off. Is that responsible? Here, I'm asking you, is that responsible? Madam President, I would like to ask you to be as observant to me as you were to the motion of this amendment, which was only begun in the 50th second. So, 50 seconds before that, he was talking about all kinds of shit. When I mentioned earlier this famous meeting of the censorship of the coalition that has failed, that is not my words, here I will remind you in one sentence of what a certain columnist who we cannot say is fond of the SNS, Draža Petrovic said – the charm of the whole event was given by Janko Veseinović, president of the PRECRET Movement, leader of the so-called. Google the opposition. That's the opposition you can hardly find through Google. Here I was trying to find Google, and a picture came out on Google, which is the formation of a city board, I guess, Belgrade. Here, look, nine people. Janko Vesenović and nine people and it is the formation of a city committee and such people are now holding some moral sermons for us today, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47336	The word is made by MP Dragan Sutanovac, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47337	The Honorable Chairman, Article 106, has been injured. (Alexander Markovic, from the post: What position. ) Under this law that we are considering today, about public order and peace, a respected colleague who is now shouting from the other side would be punished. You don't need to yell. You've been discrediting fellow MPs all along...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47338	MP, I thought you were running for Home Secretary, and you're running for Parliament President, too. Please tell me everything you have to say about article 106.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47339	In Article 106, it is said – can be talked about the point of the agenda on which the search is conducted. One ruling majority MP, including the minister, is not leading the debate on the agenda, but is constantly trying to discredit the opposition president. If you can't hear, let me remind you. The Census Coalition meeting, what does that have to do with today's agenda? What have we left for you, should I remind you of what you left for Serbia? What kind of chaos did you leave to the earth?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47340	You want to talk about article 106. You're doing the same thing you object to.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47341	I wonder how it's allowed for colleagues from the majority and not allowed by MPs of the opposition?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47342	Thank you. I'll answer you now.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47343	I ask you to establish order and that we all have the same working conditions.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47344	I will. I hope you don't think that MP Janko Veselinovic is in the ruling majority, since he talked more than 50 seconds about the water polo game. So this has nothing to do with the name above Articles 2 and 2. - is deleted,... (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: Those who destroyed the earth, fought wars, lost wars, raised all tensions... Don't talk over me, it's not nice, it's not polite. So he wanted to use the water polo game to erase the entire M.O.P. It's an interesting exposure, but don't let him say it. It's a picture of every one of us, what he's saying. I do not believe that Janko Veselinovic is in the ruling majority, I missed that moment. If one MP is allowed to speak widely, we must all. Don't be a censor just because someone belongs to the ruling majority, so he has to keep his mouth shut. What are you talking about, I don't understand? (Dear Sutanovac, from the city: is that a new rule? ) Not the new rule, but the interesting double criteria. So if I'm in opposition, I can do anything, and if I'm an MP who supports the Serbian government, there's nothing I can do. That's a pretty interesting approach. I don't know how to run a session. I'm a Democrats, so I'm letting everyone tell me what they think of Article 2. Or don't I give it to anyone? You advise me as a candidate for Parliament's president. Think about it and tell me if I'm gonna cut everything or not? That's what I'm gonna do. No, sit down. Think about it, then. You can't replicate with me. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure, and you don't think so, so we'll vote. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: you misread me. I interpreted you perfectly, you see, when the violation of the Rules of Procedure is interpreted only by me. You brought such a Rules of Procedure, what to do to you. Have a nice seat. What do I have to sit down for? All right, you can stand up. Please kindly step away from this session. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47345	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, honored guests, for several reasons this amendment should be rejected. First, because of the elemental illiteracy. Two, because of the mess. Mr. Martinovic, as head of the Committee, you should know that amendments can be proposed by MPs, that is their sovereign right. Here, I'm holding the amendments of a professor, a MP, a professor who teaches law in college. It says in the title that the amendment proposes a professor. He's not a folk ambassador. We don't have the office of MPs here. They're circuit functions. We're MPs here. No one argues with the MPs to propose amendments. But this is by who knows which way that the non-existent function – the MP, it is a province function, proposing an amendment. That it happened to me, the farmer, so come on. But it happened to the law professor. So, the Constitution, the laws, the Law on the Assembly, the Rules of Procedure, which they wrote, may even have participated in the writing of the Rules of Procedure, and does not know that amendments can be proposed by MPs and other promoters, but must be signed as a People's MP. This - I'm not even going to interpret the movement, but I said, "That's what I am, a woman and a sister-in-law, and here's the Turnover Movement." Next. illiteracy. Read the explanation. The first sentence says: “The proposed Law on Public Order and Peace, on the one hand, is entered into the matter of the Criminal Code. ” It would be right to say: “The proposed Law on Public Order, on the one hand, is entered into the matter of the Criminal Code. ” There's a disputed downfall here. Even Sjojic wouldn't do this. And therefore, because of illiteracy and disorder, this amendment should be rejected. Third thing: wipes the organs. According to him, I think the party to the former regime should maintain public order and peace, etc. Because with his proposal, he wipes out the entire police force, the communal police. It does not stop, it erases all those who should help citizens maintain public order and peace, thus also in physical and property security. So much for a college law professor, and I think this amendment should be rejected. What offends me, and insulted me as the uncle of the third golman of the water polo team, who was at the game, who often goes to the game, Mr. Stefanovic I've seen, I've seen Mr. Cedo Jovanovic, I've seen Mr. Dulic, I've seen an actor Cvianovic at water polo games often. I have seen this promoter against Croatia, among Croatian fans, and when he says - shame and shame, I must say that the shame and shame have ruled for 12 years this country and it is time to put an end to that disgrace and shame, because in Vojvodina he has ruled for 15 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47346	The word has a folk MP, Dr Ljubisa Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47347	Dear colleagues and colleagues, right away at the beginning, I feel I should not accept the amendment. Why? We are all faced with Serbia's loss over the past 20 years and there has indeed been a difficult material situation among our citizens, which we cannot accuse any of the participants on the political scene. But we are also witnessing that there have been major abuses in the area where certain funds have been collected as donations and humanitarian aid, etc. And I think this is a good proposal from the ministry to slowly introduce order in the area as well. Can you do that all of a sudden? The minister said this was just the beginning and a law would be passed that would regulate it. I am surprised that anyone in Serbia, not only here in the Assembly, but in Serbia, can be against such an action. It is our job to try together to make a better situation in Serbia, to help citizens avoid being abused in any area, even in this area. That's why I think this law is very correct and it's one of the beginnings that we're going to try to solve this problem. What else was bothering me here? I can understand colleagues from the opposition that they have the opposite opinions, that their fight against the position is something that is fundamental to democracy and parliamentaryism, but I no longer understand why they are constantly whining and attacking this Alexander Vukic who as a good fairy meets all their wishes. They asked for elections, and he immediately told them about his wand, so that they may have a choice. Now they've won the election and now it's a pain in the ass why the election, how it's going to be, what it's going to be. He can't give you the opportunity to go to the election and win for you. You do your job, you do your best, so as much as you win, you act like one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47348	Ambassador Babic to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47349	Madam President, a lot of questions have been raised here today, many falsely spoken from some pathological political hatred that is so visible in this room. However, what has been said earlier really cuts with common sense. It has been said that the government of the Republic of Serbia has been working towards the collapse of our society. For the amendment promoter, the decline is a reduction in the unemployment rate from its 25, almost 26%, as we inherited in 2012, to the current 17%, which is still high, but we will continue to fight for every job and for every man in the Republic of Serbia. For the amendment promoter, the collapse is that we have reduced and nearly halved the deficit, unlike when it led the Republic of Serbia and when it forced the IMF only to use the funds of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the funds in the budget, for its election campaign and for the election campaign of one of the parties in which it has been and which it has changed over the past few years. For him, the collapse of opening negotiating chapters with the EU, which he failed to deal with politics and supporting the government and leading this country for 12 years, has failed to see, let alone open. The disaster for the promoter is also the fact that the Republic of Serbia organised the European Championship in Belgrade, which all benefited from, and our society and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because the Belgrade hotels and restaurants were full, because we showed a nice and decent face to Serbia. I can see that someone is shaking his hand and that, of course, it's not interesting to him that when something is decent and normal and, of course, it's almost unacceptable in their words. For the amendment's promoter, the failure is that the Republic of Serbia bought two swimming pools that were installed in "Arena". For the amendment promoter, the failure is that these two swimming pools will be mounted in Vrnjačka Banja, within the National Water polo Centre and that those people who are not only this generation of water poloists, but also many generations behind, and I believe many generations that will defend Serbia's colors and in the future will make Serbia a truly significant water polo force. I think the only downfall for the amendment promoter is that he is no longer able to make combinations, personally boast and rich, to fill his pockets with various subsidized vineyards, various apartments and villas on Vracar, with various abductions from children distracted in development without talking from other layers of our society. I will take this opportunity to ask this censorship coalition, any one, and ask them – when they lied more, when they claimed that 16 thousand, allegedly, SNS bots were present at the finale between Serbia and Montenegro, or when they were so concisely acting and commenting on the whistles that appeared then at the Belgrade Arena? I'll remind you of a time from a few years ago, when almost all sports events and matches in Serbia had banners, so some songs began with "Save Serbia and... “ It’s rude that they keep on saying it. I didn't support it at the time, and I don't support it right now, but for you, those people who said "Save Serbia and... “ Before 2012, were hooligans, were criminals, and then when you or similar people directed some whistles, then it was the perfection of democracy just because something like that suits you. People, make a deal once if someone's a hooligan or not a hooligan and when he's a hooligan, when he whistles at you or someone else. Arrange once if there were 16,000 points, as you claimed, or what you claimed five minutes after that. When do you lie more? When are you more distracting people in Serbia and when is your only policy and only program to throw mud at the Government of the Republic of Serbia? The more you lie, the more you plant. Will someone in Serbia live better than you offer, what do you do? No, he won't. You were the only one who could live better than that in Serbia, and no one else. You're the only one who ruined the Vojvodina Development Bank and got rich in person. You're the only one who ruined the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund and got rich in person. You're the only one who ruined Tesla's bank and got rich in person. You're the only one who's ruined New Vienna instead of Hetherland, instead of home for children distracted in development, you're the only one who's made a fortune, and you've left them with nothing. You're the only one who left 400,000 people out of work, and you've hired both yours and yours and your families. From that and from your policy of debauchery and lies, only you can live better, but not the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That is why the SNS, clean cheeks and clean hands, raised heads, raised heads, goes to the next campaign, as well as all the next campaigns, because we can praise the citizens of the Republic of Serbia for what we have done. Public finances clean up like a pharmacy, unlike the public finances you've been putting your hands in the way you wanted, as you wanted, for your combinations, for your furnished tenders, for your wealth. We can also boast of the open chapters. We can also praise ourselves by reducing the rate of unemployed people in Serbia, an orderly state, all the things for which we and the international community, the very strict international community, recognises each place. And, everyone sees it, and, everyone feels it, except you, except you, who have lost your security, with no darkened glass cars, no subsidized vineyards of Fruskogorsky, no apartments and villas on Vracar, without all that haughtiness that this political elite you created in your time and carried. Serbia will never return at that time, no matter how many lies it has lied to us, no matter how many muds, no matter how many affairs it has invented, Serbia and the people in Serbia know well that they distinguish between the effect and the result of the lies and the planting and what you do.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47350	Parliamentarians Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Martinović, Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac submitted to the 2nd amendment. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47351	Thank you, Madam President. According to Article 2. - the competent authorities for maintaining public order and peace are the MUP, the communal police, the inspection authorities and other competent authorities, etc. We suggest that the "other authorities" are not there because we believe that you have shown that you are very creatively interpreting who can maintain public order and peace, and that the law defines precisely which only authorities can be in charge of maintaining public order and peace. Imagine now the situation hypothetically in which one party gets 24 committee members overnight. He is trying to replace power in one, say, the Banatian municipality and as a public order and peace body that prohibits the council from entering the building, which, according to the newly elected president of the assembly, prohibits members of the MUP from entering the building, which physically attacks the councils, a certain private security agency appears and appears in the function of the body responsible for maintaining public order and peace. Of course, there is no signed contract with that agency at this point in time in that hypothetical municipality. The head of the municipal administration says there is no contract, no contract has been introduced into the authorities of the municipality, so that in the end, very strangely, the MUP would be involved in the whole story by claiming that he has the contract. The contract published by the MUP is without an accounting number, as a job manager, does not appear this municipality but again appears the same firm that has been disputed since the very beginning and, as far as we know, this contract could have been signed half a minute before its publication on the page...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47352	Time. Thank you. Members of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDP- Together for Serbia – Green Serbia submitted the 2nd amendment. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47353	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr Minister, distinguished citizens, Article 2 speaks of the fact that the competent authorities for maintaining public order and peace are the MUP, the communal police, the inspection authorities and other competent authorities in accordance with the law of the established work. We have suggested that this word “and other authorities” be deleted, because there is no need for such sensitive matter, where, among other things, the regulation and application of forced measures, there is uncertainty and undefined concepts. We think that language must be very precise, that those services that can regulate public order and peace must be taxed and that we may be in case of control of public order and peace, in case of riots that they can exercise force. We have been rejected here, as the minister says - the amendment is not accepted for reasons of the provisions of Article 2(1). The draft law shall be laid down by the competent authorities for the conduct of public law enforcement and peace activities in accordance with the law established in the section. I ask – if he says in point 1. "and other competent authorities", and you say that by law, i.e. At 1st position, they make it clear that the competent authorities can take care of public order and peace, who here doesn't understand what we're talking about? I think this amendment should be accepted. I think Article 2 is very important and that, normally in accordance with your policy, determine which authorities can control public order and peace.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47354	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47355	This is about a broader interpretation of public order and peace. Most MPs think of the situation when there has been a brutal violation of public order and peace, and it needs to be set up by means of coercion. Therefore, it can only be done by the police, or the communal police, in accordance with the law and their jurisdiction. However, where we talk about selling alcohol to persons in front of sports events or selling to minors or competences he has, for example. Tax police, it's not about the application of physical force, it's about the application of measures and actions that can lead to the removal of dangers from public order and peace violations. That's why you're putting this particular one on. So it's not about the possibility that some other authorities take over the role of police, because it's defined by other laws, including the Police Act. It cannot be allowed for any other body to participate in the measures of physical coercion, because it is clearly defined by other laws, but it can prevent and eliminate possible distortions of public order and peace through other measures and actions that lead to this.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47356	Thank you. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Please, I cannot sign up for a word. How can you not? Try next to your colleague, you have to sign up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47357	Of course, this is a very important law, so there's no reason to run over it and over these amendments. In the amendment to Article 2, Mr Pavicevic and I suggest adding a new position to Article 2, which is said to be added – in the case of a larger gathering of citizens, over 20, maintaining public order and peace is in the exclusive jurisdiction of the Ministry of the Interior. This member is otherwise – The competent authorities for maintaining public order and peace are the MUP, the municipal police, the inspection authorities and other competent authorities in accordance with the law of the established workaround. Of course, it is known that other organs are involved in the organisation of the gathering, in the control of the group. So, you need to get permission from local self-government to use space, you need to provide emergency assistance, you need to secure electricity and all that stuff. But with this formulation, it turns out that some gathering can also provide for the MUP, and it can also be done by archaeological society. No, it has to be precise and that's the purpose of this amendment. I think it should be accepted because it has no hidden intention, no politicization whatsoever. On the contrary, we think that this would be of great benefit to police authorities and police officers as people who work there, to take a clearer look at this issue and to reduce the possibilities of any abuse in the preparation of meetings and in holding meetings. I'm going for five more minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47358	It was used three times a day for five minutes in the last session. Those are the rules.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47359	Yeah?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47360	Not you, but three independent MPs in five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47361	All right. I call on this amendment to be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47362	Thank you. You'll continue later. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47363	We now have one situation so that the nature of this amendment, or this proposal, may be found in the Law on Peaceful Gathering. But since we're going to come to a debate on this law, we have two situations. First, we now have because of the position, because of the Constitutional Court's decision and because it is constitutional, of course, we have, for example, that the gathering of citizens in a closed area is not subject to registration. You have a situation where, say, 50 or 100 citizens can gather in some closed area and they don't have to report it to the police. If the police were the only one in charge of maintaining public order and peace, they wouldn't be able to do it in those cases, because we simply wouldn't know that this meeting is being held, because these citizens are not even obliged to report it. You can invite people to the theater and make a stands, there's a fight, and they say, "Well, where are the police to maintain public order and peace?" The police don't even know, and by law, she doesn't even have to know that this meeting is being held. However, we also have situations for some sports events, where there is a law established by the directorial service. We have to have other organs that deal with it, because it simply can't be the responsibility of the police, because there's not enough police to be at every event, to be in every place. The police intervene when there is a breach of public order and peace, and that is our constitutional and legal obligation, but that is why we have predicted that maintaining public order and peace can work in different laws and other state authorities that are competent to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47364	Thank you, Mr. Minister. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica! On what basis, Mr. Zivkovic? (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Direct address. I thank you. On behalf of the above members of the 3rd and Article 3rd Amendment, the National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic, submitted. Here you go, Mr. Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47365	Thank you. The turnaround movement has submitted an amendment to this article as well. We believe that neither this member nor the other members are fulfilling the purpose and that this law should be withdrawn. Let's say, this article shows that it's possible that the state as it is, and in fact, the state, it's me, many of the provisions of this article are interpreted in its own way, as it does now. For example, the definition of a fight – a fight is a verbal conflict of two or more faces. Does this mean that verbal conflict will be two or more persons, the Serbian people are a little more temperamental, from now on punishable? If someone says - this government is harmful, a little louder than they usually say, will it be punishable? It shows – shouting is a verbal expression of strong intensity. Mr. Stefanovic, do you also have a device to measure the intensity, intensity of expression? How will you determine that level of expression when someone says – Wolf is bad, down the Wolf, down the Government? How are you gonna measure that?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47366	Mr. Veselinović, please keep yelling, threatening, disrespecting, and no one is telling you anything, and you are still saying what you are saying...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47367	Now, how do you measure the intensity of my exposure? You say I'm yelling, and I don't think I'm yelling...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47368	I thank you, Mr. Veselinovic. Time's up. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47369	In the sense of this law, the National Assembly is not a public place, since you know who can come here and there are no provisions on public order and peace violations in that case. However, what is important for people to understand, the first thing is not to determine, according to the previous speaker, the state of interpretation, it is determined by the National Assembly by voting on individual laws and the National Assembly, which is the law, and what is written in the law is obliged to respect all citizens of Serbia, whether they belong to state bodies or not to any body individually. Also, the other thing is about these provisions that are defined in Article 3. You have, like, public harassment by yelling. There can be no disturbance of public order and peace if someone isn't upset with that scream. Mr. Messenger can stand on the terrace and yell as much as he wants, every day he shouts whatever he wants, if no one's upset about it. People go by and it doesn't touch them at all. They go on and say -- it's not for us, we're not professional in doing it, we can't measure the level, we can't measure anything like that, we're not upset and there's no disturbance to public order and peace. So, if someone's yelling, there's got to be someone who's upset about breaking the law in terms of definition here. But we sat very carefully with the people of the courts and defined how to facilitate the work of the state, how to facilitate the treatment of all other state authorities, because simply without a precise definition it is always possible to have abuse. After all, when you have a law that says something clearly, people don't have to worry, they just have to respect it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47370	I thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47371	Mr. Becicu, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honored guests of the Ministry of the Interior, I am not surprised by this amendment. I'm not surprised because it comes from a colleague who just found out he's actually a state. It's dangerous. (Janko Veselinović, from town: Vučić is state. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47372	Please, Mr. Veselinovic, don't throw it away. Be polite in the National Assembly, Mr. Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47373	When, in the light of this amendment, he said, "State," it's me. You can take a look at that in a stenogram. I am not surprised by such a man then that he wanted to erase the point 8 of this Article 3, so that he could erase the insult, or insult, that it was at all any disturbance of public order and peace, because the amendment promoter is doing it all the time in the National Assembly, so of course he would suggest eradicating point 8, which is an insult. But then we'd be patient, and we're used to it. But then it goes on, then it's for eradicating point 9, that committing violence is not a violation of public order and peace. Be careful, again, and I can understand that, remembering some of the events of 2000, from October 5, 2000, when the violence against the unthinkers, of course, was over for the award. However, Mr. Amendment Proposer goes further and would like to delete point 10. - a threat, that this is not a violation of public order and peace. Imagine what kind of society we would be if everyone could be totally unpunished, without any responsibility to threaten, but I can understand it there, because such political attitudes he constantly represents. He threatens nonstop and, of course, wants to have no responsibility for what he does and does. But let's move on. He wants to erase, Mr. Becic, and point 11, and that's a fight. Imagine if he were to go, for example, God forbid, adopt this amendment and delete Article 3 and imagine that the fight would not be sanctioned and punished. Then what can we expect here in the National Assembly Hall and in the halls and in front of the Assembly of the representatives of this censorship coalition? I think instead of the law, instead of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that they would come to the National Assembly with some likely sticks, baseball bats, to do what they did in 2000 on October 5th and in that time. What is most dangerous, however, is what is proposed by this amendment by eradicating point 16, and that point 16 reads: shooting from firearms and other weapons. You see what the amendment promoter wants - only because of the mere return to power, because of the government's conquest, he's willing to even fire fire from firearms and other weapons to represent it as legal, normal, of course, if the target is SNS or SNS people or those who support SNS. I thank you, Mr Stojmirovic, for throwing and saying – so all of Serbia. I think that this amendment is scandalous and that it should not be allowed, because we want Serbia to make not a state legally shot from firearms and other weapons, in which the fight will be normal, in which the threat will be normal, in which violence by the amendment promoter will be over for applause, of course, if the target is SNS. We do not want to accept such an amendment because we want a decent, normal, orderly Serbia, that even when two or more people have different attitudes, political, personal or any other, these differences are resolved by dialogue, and not by the way that the amendment promoter would like to fight, scream, shit, threats and firearms. I think this amendment is really scandalous and, of course, the SNS will never accept something like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47374	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic. Here you go, Mr Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47375	Ladies and gentlemen, we are a little unserious, it seems to me, that we have come to this law, of course, I am referring to some colleagues from the opposition, given that the law is very important. It concerns the security of citizens, and that is the basic function of the state. We have a law that was passed in 1992, a lot has changed in the meantime, and it's perfectly normal for this law to follow the moment we live in and that it is necessary. It's easy and it's necessary to demean some institutes, some suggestions, it's also the work of the opposition and all that stands, but we shouldn't just go on to disrespecting the entire law. Article 3 is very important, I would say, because it defines in fact all the concepts that are then elaborated and sanctioned, and it is unacceptable to approach that member this way and that it all comes down to some day policy or to try to collect some day-to-day policy points. I think it would be a good idea for some colleagues to be a little bit detachable, when it comes to this law, and to really fight to get a law that will also be proud of the Assembly, of course, I'm sure of the government's pride and the pride of the complete society, because that, I say, is what we need. Once again, I want to agree with my colleagues, this Article 3, there are still a few amendments, there are a lot of problematic proposals that kind of derail the whole law, therefore, and it's unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47376	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Martinović, Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47377	We submitted an amendment to Article 3, precisely because a colleague who spoke before me said it was clearly defined. We feel that it is not clearly defined and that much needs to be changed in the amendment itself. For the sake of time, I'll explain only two specific things. One thing about shouting, where it's said, is a verbal expression of intense intensity. We thought it should be in the open space. For what reason? Because yelling in the case of domestic violence is already a crime. As a policeman will now decide whether he will comply with the Law on Public Order and Peace or any other law, we believe that this is the thing you should have accepted. It's only natural for it to be unequivocally defined. What is even worse, however, concerns insults, or insults. We think it could have been concrete what an insult meant. We have several court proceedings in which I have sued representatives mostly of the authorities, once before and the opposition, for insults that have been proven in court for years, years. So, basically with this member, we introduce a kind of verbal delinquent in which a cop on the street will decide who insulted or didn't insult him and what an insult it is and what it is. I think it's something that's inadmissible, so giving a cop a chance to decide on the ground. That's bad and I don't think it's in line with what the needs of Serbian citizens are. I say an insult is proven in court. It's an insult to someone, and it's not an insult. So I think you should have accepted our amendment, which in a number of terms of Article 3 has made more precise solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47378	Time. Thank you, Mr. Sutanovac. The word has a minister. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47379	The Law on Public Order and Peace does not define all forms defined by other laws. You for a crime of offense have a special law in Criminal Law, which in Chapter XVII is a crime against honor and reputation. There's a definition of what an insult is. But what's important for people to know, doesn't define a cop that, a cop just file a certain report to the prosecutor who qualified the act. It is the prosecutor who says – in a particular location it happened and that, I find it will be such and such a piece or I do not find and impose further measures and actions. A cop doesn't do that. He only documents what happened or reacts on the application of a certain citizen, a group of citizens or an organisation and teaches it to the prosecutor. The D.A. determines what goes on with it, whether it happened in this space, whether it's a crime under one law or a misdemeanor by another, a qualification is given by the prosecutor. We just define this law, as the Law of Public Order and Peace, that, for example, in this case, a cry about harassing citizens, or harassment in terms of public order and peace, and not in terms of, say, family law, where it can be defined as a criminal act. Either way, it's a qualification given to us by the prosecutor, and the court eventually decides what it is or isn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47380	I thank you, Mr. Minister. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Vladimir Orlic, Dusica Stojkovic, Aleksandar Markovic and Nenad Nikolic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47381	I thank the chairman, ladies and gentlemen the MPs, very briefly. I thank you for the accepted amendment. We have submitted a total of three amendments to this bill, the draft law on public order and peace, colleagues Vladimir Orlic, Dusica Stojkovic and Nenad Nikolic, as well as my smallness. In order not to take time now, it is the technical amendments, the amendments, I have no doubt that you are all familiar with the reasoning, the amendments that correct the technical error in the text itself with the aim of precision and improvement of the text of the law itself. Once again, I would take the opportunity not to report after our adopted amendments, to thank the government and the Ministry for the accepted amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47382	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go, Mr. Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47383	Thank you. If a member of the law can be said to have a dose of hypocrisy, it's this member. It is said in this law, certain nouns are listed in the male race, and they are used as neutral for male and female. This law and this member, Mr Gasic also voted for it. So, Mr. Gasic, he submits MPs to the Serbian Parliament a member of the law in which...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47384	Mr. Veselinović, can you in one dignified way...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47385	Can you not interrupt me, have the dignity to have worthy members of the government... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47386	... like the National Assembly and the People's Messengers, can you defend and explain your amendments in a dignified way? I will not allow hatred to be introduced into the Great Hall of the National Assembly. Thank you. On Chapter II and Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47387	So you interrupted me for just your known reason, because I told the truth. And the truth pains you, as it hurts you and the fact that after these elections you'll be an opposition and that's why there are several of you here today. Here, with Mr. Babic, six, seven MPs, fighting to be on the SNS list, but...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47388	Please, Mr. Veselinović, would you like to explain your amendments? And not to insult the messengers in the hall, in the Great Hall of the National Assembly?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47389	Not in the O.R. because they're not in the O.R. So, they're fighting to be on the list.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47390	Mr. Veselinović, you are very rarely in the O.R. and I don't think it's appropriate for you to tell the MPs whether they are in the O.R. or not. Shame, Mr. Veselinovic, in which you insult the National Assembly and the People's MPs. These are your colleagues, Mr. Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47391	As you know, Mr. Becic, I am one of the most active MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. That's what statistics are about, Mr. Becic. Why are you telling the truth? All citizens in the Republic of Serbia know that I am one of the most active MPs. So you told the truth, you didn't even blink.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47392	One of the most active MPs is Mr. Pavicevic, so Mr. Babic, so let's go in turn...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47393	What do you mean by that?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47394	I don't know about you, Mr. Veselinovic, but I do know that all you do is insult the MPs, insult the National Assembly and insult the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47395	You know that the Turnover Movement is a serious opposition to the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47396	I apologize, and Mr. Bradic is one of the very active MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47397	You know and it bothers you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47398	Mr. Markovic, Miss Jerkov, let's not count now, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47399	Will you let me explain?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47400	Thank you, Mr. Veselinovic. Time's up. Members of the 5th Amendment have been brought together by the MPs... Excuse me, Mr. Granny, you by amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47401	This is one of the few amendments I've found an understanding for. And that my understanding lies in the position of Article 5, where it is said, the collection of voluntary contributions may take a maximum of 60 days. I understand why the amendment promoter wants to delete this member and this position, that the collection of voluntary contributions cannot last longer than 60 days. If we look at a situation where the amendment promoter is unsuccessfully trying to form his own political party. If this requires the formation of a political party to collect voluntary contributions from citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the form of signatures. And if he can't do it and he's proven unable and unable to do it in 60 days, so it's normal that he'll suggest erasing Articles 5 and this attitude, Item 4. Because he really needs one infinite time because the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, these kind of political attitudes, these kind of insults, these kind of inventions, these kind of things that we've been bombarded with every day by the amendment promoters, simply, have shown their position through those nine people who attended the establishment of the Belgrade City Committee. Watch out, Belgrade metropolis, a few million inhabitants, nine people come to support probably the members of the immediate family. But their stance on this policy has shown that for months it has been unsuccessfully trying to collect voluntary contributions in the form of citizens' signatures that will support the formation of its political party and that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will not, they do not, because they want a decent, normal, regulated Republic of Serbia, which the amendment promoter cannot possibly understand, but also offer to the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47402	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47403	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, well, of course it's unacceptable to delete Chapter 5, or Article 5, and it's quite clear that we couldn't even hear any argument from the amendment's promoter in the sense of why it's for erasing Article 5 of this law. Instead, we've heard about elections, election lists, and so on even though it's clear to everyone that he's the last person here who should be looking forward to the election and wishing for the election. On the other hand, we heard about the dedicated work in the National Assembly, we heard about the fact that I don't know what kind of activism, that the most active MP is and so on, well, things aren't exactly as he tried to present the speeches and the fact that on Friday, when we started the debate in detail on the Police Act, or the Bill on Police, we were here without the present promoter of this amendment. When we asked where he was, since he only showed up in the afternoon, we got the answer that he was at a party meeting. So, at some party reunion. So, his state obligations, the obligations of the MP, he has subordinated to party obligations, and here he talks about being an active and dedicated MP and that party that does not exist, an NGO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47404	Thank you. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Marjanovic, Natasa Vukovic and Jovanovic Jovanovic. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Goran Djiric, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkvo, Vesna Martinovic, Jovan Markovic and MP Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47405	Thank you. Here, just the discussions that were before this mine point to how much the theory of valority applies to us. You say MP Janko Veselinovic insults the MPs, I say he is not insulting. And I don't remember him insulting any MP...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47406	Mr. Sutanovac, do you want to speak according to your amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47407	The amendment has something to do with that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47408	Here, you didn't report for the breach of the Rules of Procedure but for the amendment, so please explain your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47409	Just as 65 MPs have never spoken in this assembly unlike Janko Veseinovic. So we suggest we delete the deadline. Mr. Minister, you've set a deadline for collecting voluntary contributions for 60 days. We think that, let me put it this way, is the least inappropriate. For what? Because there are activities that can be carried out within certain social groups that last for years, not to say for decades. So we have various associations, not to talk about the Red Cross, disabled associations, fighters associations, associations of whatever, who all over the world have been collecting funds for their activities all year round. I don't see why that would be limited, why? If we know, say, that the House of the Army of Serbia is then, and I don't know which kingdoms, made up of the contributions made by former officers, soldiers, participants of the First World War, which they didn't collect in 60 days, the question arises, why would they now limit it to me? I see no reason, no political, no security, I fully agree with you in the sense that order should be introduced and in that kind of thing that happens and where abuse can be, and voluntary blood giving, as a colleague says, is not limited to 60 days. So, I don't see why you put a deadline of 60 days. I'd like you to explain to me, or one of your colleagues, what is it that prevents people from doing this for a long period of time?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47410	Time. Thank you, Mr. Sutanovac. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47411	Basically there's no limit to the collection, we're just defining the application. So we report, you can continue collecting with a new application for the new 60 days. There are simply some actions that take so long that no one is certain anymore whether it is necessary for these people to collect money, with which basis, whether it will disrupt public order and peace, where locations, whether it comes to human organization. It's just that people only e-mail one more piece of paper, that's 20 seconds of work on these 60 days. I don't think there are any, especially for the serious and powerful organizations that have existed for so long, I don't see that they have a problem sending an e-mail. That lasts 20 seconds, but that introduces order.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47412	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Ivan Karic and the magistrate Dr Blagoja Bradic. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47413	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Mr. Minister, respected citizens, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, so, Mr. Minister, we don't understand anything. We have a clear position between me and my MP group on how you're solving the collection of voluntary contributions. We think that approving the collection of voluntary contributions is unnecessary, sanctioning abuse and as necessary. It's a different approach now. Your idea of politics is like this, you think it should be done by doing it, I don't think it's good. You just said that you do not restrict the collection of voluntary contributions, sorry in Article 5 the last position says – collecting voluntary contributions may take up to 60 days. I think it's a restriction. We have proposed an amendment, although I do not agree with the way but to mitigate the problems that can be reported, we have proposed to add a new position that says – at the end of the deadline set out in Article 4, that is where this is limited to 60 days, the entities referred to in Article 1 may reorganise the collection of contributions for the same purpose if they submit the notice again. If you mean what you just said, then you should accept this amendment, because what you just said is what I just read. I expect you'll accept, because we need to make it easier. I would ask you, you must make an exception during this session. Voluntary blood collection, you need to get out of this. It's a permanent action. Imagine that the Red Cross or the Blood Transfusion Office is sending you a 60-day notice that the action of voluntary collection is a voluntary contribution. Whether it's in the money or it's in the blood, that's the contribution. So, you have to make an exception so we don't make a needless galatia out of which we can't get out of the paperwork. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47414	The word has a minister. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47415	I accept this amendment since it defines more precisely what we were talking about a little while ago, and I am completely in agreement. My colleagues tell me that otherwise the Red Cross has its own law that works and they work within the framework of that law, so it doesn't apply to them. We're going to define, we're going to see how to define this voluntary giving, because it's absolutely pointless, of course, to define it and treat it this way. I don't think this law applies to that. I don't think this law applies to this absolutely because blood never comes out in a public place in such a way that it can, but in any case we'll check and we'll get to the best possible solution, and we accept your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47416	I thank you, Mr. Minister. The word is Dr. Vesna Rakonjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47417	Thank you, Chairman. I welcome the minister's decision to accept this proposal, and voluntary giving to refer to voluntary blood giving is something else, it's donating practically tissue. So the esteemed colleague is probably, since he's from a health profession, it needs to be, action but it's voluntary giving, practically tissue, organs, etc. It's regulated by a special regulatory donor, so it has nothing to do with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47418	The 6th Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47419	There is a fundamental misunderstanding in this law and the reasons why the Turnover Movement asked for this law to be withdrawn. A short while ago, one of the MPs on the SNS list tried to read the explanation for it. In fact, Minister, I'm sure you understand that. So, on behalf of the Turnover Movement, I said that this law is, among other things, unnecessary in the work that foresees works that are already in some way or subject to the Law of Infractions or Criminal Code. So, just before a member of the SNS said – So the fight would not be sanctioned unless this law was adopted. He does not understand in his ignorance that there is already a sanction for fighting, that there is a sanction for insulting. He doesn't know the legal system so much that he doesn't realize that these acts are already sanctioned. You have, in some ways, singled them out, in my opinion unnecessaryly, and therefore I believe that some of these members are norming in this law, which was intended, should possibly be completed by the Criminal Code. There's no way to pass a new code, where our people would, as our people would say, mix both grandmothers and frogs. I thank my colleague Markovic, who shows the pictures from the meeting of the Executive Board, the City Board of the Turnover Movement, which counts nine members of the Executive Board, the City Board of the Turnover Movement and Mr Markovic, 60 Committees of the Turnover Movement have. Most now are members who come from the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47420	Thank you. If this wasn't an insult, Mr. Sutanovac, then I don't know what it is. The word has a minister. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47421	As for the fight, we define with this law what a fight is. The fight wasn't defined by any other law. Other laws define participation in a fight in which a person has lost his life or suffered serious physical consequences, and that is Article 123. A criminal law, which says – who participates in a fight in which someone is deprived of life or others is seriously injured, will be punished for only participating in fines or prisons for up to three years. So there's also a threat to dangerous weapons in a fight or a fight, which is a member of 124. – who, when fighting or fighting, is massed by weapons, dangerous weapons or other means like that, is severely injured or severely damaged by the body, will be punished, etc. So these are the acts that are defined by Criminal Law. The law on public order and peace defines what a fight is and this is the only law that defines it in such a way.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47422	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47423	I thank the chairman. I was in doubt whether to seek a replica or an amendment, but the point is that the amendment, like all other amendments, is completely unacceptable so far in the proposed text, is ‘expunged’. We're not going to comment on that in particular. What I wanted to point out, it is, however, we did not conclude in the end whether or not the amendment-proposer of his illiterate argument, what Mr Risticevic pointed out nicely, and if it is not at the request of the amendment-proposer, but the explanation is illiterate and it has been found. What's left unsaid is whether to give up the arguments or not? When it comes to the picture and the meeting that has been mentioned and nine people present at the establishment of the Belgrade Committee, whether the executive board or any party body, we do not know exactly, so I will again show the picture to the Serbian citizens, Janko Veselinovic, nine people present, and he with those nine. But what worries me the most now is if Belgrade is the largest city, like the capital, and they have nine people at the meeting, I can imagine how many people have at the meeting, say, in Vlasotanc or Dimitrovgrad or some small place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47424	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Martinović, Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac. The word is Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47425	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Namely, Article 6 in paragraph 1, whose amendment we propose, provides for what everything should contain a notice on the organisation of humanitarian action, and, among other things, says the name and last name and the number of IDs that will collect the contributions. We suggest that this part should be left out, that it is really necessary to deliver all these things just for an organizer who doesn't actually have to be physically present every time we collect contributions, and especially because we live in a time that is probably not, but we all see that very often these actions take place online, through social networks. Do we need to have information for all those people who are involved, who share some content, who are asking for help, etc? Generally, we think that in your inability to put order into this very important area, you've actually done it now in a way, because there used to be some abuses, which nobody slows down, now you've done it in a way that you've almost made it impossible for people to actually do it effectively. You know, Mr. Stefanovic, we live in a time when and in a country where parents use SMS to beg for 50 or 100 dinars to treat their child. Of those Vučićevic promises to sell "Star" and "Partizan", so that children will be treated from that fund, obviously there is nothing and obviously it has not happened. Whoever's on social networks, I know you're there, too, see how many people share these contents. Like many people with a lot of escorts on social networks, people are probably asking you to share some content and some request for help, are we all involved in the collection of humanitarian aid, does the one who didn't deliver our personal data then violate the law, if we ask that money be paid for some action?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47426	Time. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47427	We happily live in a country where we no longer have a situation where people can't be treated in their own country, and ministers go out of the country to heal, because they have so much trust in the health system and so much trust in what they talk and provide. That's what these governments did. It's not happening now. What's good is that we're not talking about people who call, so people who share on social networks are calling for help in one human act, we're talking about organisers right now. So, help collecting organizers, not help notices, but help. In order to prevent someone sending SMSs, then the same citizens come to you after and say, "I'm sorry, we gave 100 dinars, 500 dinars, or as much as they could give, where that money went, we see in the newspaper fraud, these took, collected money, disappeared, and no one knows where it is anymore, and how it was collected. To prevent that, we'll have those faces, so we've defined here that those individuals who are directly collecting, give exactly so that if it's in accordance with the law, the police wouldn't be carrying charges against those persons who do so in accordance with the law, and we have those persons who organize it, which is logical that someone who wants to collect humanitarian aid, and that they don't later end up on the front pages of the media, how they put that help in their pockets, and not for children who are suffering from various diseases. We better know who these people are when you want to raise money, give us your ID. What's the big deal?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47428	Thank you. Miss Jerkov, you don't have time. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: Good. ) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Ivan Karić and Mr. Dr. Blaža Bradić together have submitted an amendment with a correction, which is added after article 6, a new chapter III, the title of head and new article 7. and 8. The word is by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47429	Thank you. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our MP group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, ZS has submitted an amendment proposing that a new chapter III, whose name would be read – performs in a public place, and members of 7 and 8, be added to regulate that matter. I'm not going to read them now, so I don't waste any time. I just want to say that the amendment proposes to regulate the way in which music and other art content is performed in public places, because according to the solutions given in the bill, these contents will be completely abolished and banned in public places, because they can always be treated as noise-making. The amendment is not accepted because the subject matter of the draft law on public order and peace is not the regulation of the area of performing artistic and other cultural activities. The way in which these activities are carried out shall be governed by other legal regulations and decisions of cities and municipalities. We had no intention of regulating the way these activities were done, but to introduce them into legal flows, so that they could, by application and by approval, be performed in a public place. We are aware of the situation in which our society, the tabloidisation of the media, reality on television, and we think that the creation of cultural programs, whether it initiated physical faces, philharmonics, opera, is of great importance in public places. It's a trend in the world, it started with us, but unfortunately, it's only available and visible on social networks. We think that it is really necessary to regulate, so that someone who doesn't like this kind of art doesn't say, well, that makes noise under my window. We suggest that we regulate this and allow certain branches of art to get closer to the citizens, that our children and citizens are educated and that they enjoy it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47430	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47431	A large number of local self-governments have already been arranged. I know specifically about the example of the city of Belgrade. So, it's a fully defined place where public implementation is possible, you file a report to the local self-government authority, whether it's a city municipality or a city of Belgrade, they approve you and you have no danger in that regard, but then they also inform citizens. When you say -- someone might say, well, it's not that Martian, and it's a citizen, and it's someone who lives in this town and who lives in any city, who has some human rights. We can't determine who has rights and who doesn't have rights. I'm sorry, maybe there's eight babies in the house. Would you run a public campaign as a politician against someone who has eight children and who complains about it or who would give up because it's not very popular to attack, say, the parents of eight children? I'm asking you for a specific case. If you say you'd run a campaign against them, be their children, and someone outside their house, who had nothing to do with the Philharmonics, but yesterday he took some instrument, put on a hat, and decided to raise some money, but he also claims to be an artist. So, I just want to give you plastics, and the police can't solve everything. It's not the police who decide who's an artist, who's not an artist, who plays this way, who plays that way. That's why we made laws in this country, that all citizens have the right to complain about noise, because we have to limit people who think they should stand in front of your window every day for 24 hours and so on 365 days a year. And you say at some point – and I guess I have some rights, I have the right to rest, I have the right to not have that noise, I have the right to have my children live normally. But it's nothing the matter of this law. We have only established by this law when someone comes and reports harassment and that there has been a threat to public order and peace, it is then subject to the provisions of this law. Everything else, just this about artistic content defines local self-government, and of course we'll all work hard, and that's a good thing, I say hello, we all have to try to have more cultural content, of course, not just in the streets, but in all the specific areas that are intended for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47432	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47433	Replica, since the minister asked me a question. Surely I wouldn't argue to disturb the peace and regular life course of children, but when things happen in the city center, so I know from experience, there's always someone who doesn't like something and who complains for personal reasons. For example, we had an event in my place where I live that at noon a jazz orchestra played and one who didn't like that music reported it because it happened to be downtown. He reported a noise, and there were three hundred people gathered with children who enjoyed it and listened to it on a beautiful sunny day. That's why we predict that everyone can apply and that not everyone can, whenever they want and wherever they want, but that somehow they can regulate that those who have something to show people and to give someone pleasure and even education, to allow them to report a beating in public places, so that it's regulated so that anyone doesn't harass them. I certainly am for the protection of public order and peace, because I live in the center of the city and I know what noise means from nearby cafes, from traffic and from everything. I'd just say that there are local self-governments that have regulated it, but most local self-government has nothing to do with it, nor is it able to deal with it and to regulate it by acts.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47434	Thank you, Mrs. Korach. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47435	That's why we need local self-governments that can do it, and that's another way to invite citizens to think about it when they choose people who decide their local self-governments, and it doesn't matter at all which parties these people come from. As Minister of the Interior, it's important for me to enforce the law. When local self-government determines a specific place and allows it to be implemented, allow for meetings to be held in that time and time, when it defines anything similar, there are no conditions for breach of public order and peace. The meeting brings together people who are invited or who are boundlessly able to move at the meeting, if it is a public place, and where there is a certain activity that does not disturb the citizens. Of course, you're right. We're such a country. It's never good for everyone and it's always going to be the most beautiful thing in the world, but it's the right thing for those who object and we can't jeopardize his rights, but the police won't act, because there's no violation at the time. Just because someone thinks it doesn't mean that conditions have been created. Of course, there's always a prosecutor to consult, to see if there's been a threat to public order and peace, but as we've defined with the provisions of local self-government... I think it's important that local self-government be called to define this, as we invited them to define those security committees in which they work with the police. When I became a minister, maybe a handful of municipalities had defined those committees, and then they rebel against having no better communication to the police. Make committees, then communicate.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47436	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word is from the People's MP Vuceta Toskovic. Here you go, Mr. Toskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47437	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't see any problems here, so far we've made that clear. I can't understand that someone doesn't know that no one in town can lift a tent and make noise without local self-government allowing it. So, the soloists can go out to the streets to play and even get rid of them. So the regulation of such things is in the jurisdiction of local self-government and I don't know why it's so much about accepting this amendment. So local self-government regulates all the gatherings in its city. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47438	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vesna Rakonjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47439	Since we've used the term noise multiple times, then noise is every unwanted sound. A musical event, such as a jazz event, is hardly an unwanted sound. This definition is expanded by the fact that it also implies the adverse effect of sound on the human organism. In the law of definition there is something different and it is said – that noise in the environment is unwanted and harmful sound. The EU Directive – under noise means harmful sound only as a sound in the external environment that has been created by human activities, which are explicitly cited. The adverse effects are negative effects on health, and they must be proven. Therefore, a musical event, if it is organised in the right way, in accordance with the Law on Public Order and Peace, in a defined space, has the permission of city authorities, can be held freely and no application by an unsatisfactory citizen can be a basic application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47440	Thank you. On Chapter III, the name above Articles 7 and 7 of the amendment was submitted by the MP, Dr Janko Veselinović. The word is made by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go, Mr. Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47441	The Turnover Movement also submitted an amendment to Article 7 of this Law, which says: "Whoever is fighting or shouting in violation of public order and peace or the matter of harassment of citizens - will be punished with a fine of 5,000 to 20,000" and then mentions what we were just talking about "by performing music and other content, using musical instruments, radio and television receivers". This creates a wide possibility of interpretation by a government that is the way it is, a government that is bothered by every whistle, which, after one whistle, changes the whole operation and puts the whole country on its feet...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47442	Please, Mr. Veselinovic. On the last amendment you had, you were talking about the amendment and no one was interrupting you. I ask you to focus on the amendment, to explain why the amendment was submitted without spreading the story, because we will have a large number of MPs who will think they have the same right.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47443	This, Mr. Chairman, the performance of music and other content can be "the whistle at eight". So that doesn't mean they have to be violins. It can be whistles. So, if they're going to be harassing...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47444	Mr. Veselinović, please respect the Great Hall of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47445	What's this about, Mr. Becic?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47446	Don't do it like this, because we're going to get off the subject and we're going to have a large number of MPs who are going to want to...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47447	Is it possible, for example, to prepare ourselves not to be a censorship coalition, to point to your incompetence by "swimming at eight."
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47448	Mr. Vesenovic, you can talk about my incompetence whenever you want and I won't interrupt you, but don't insult the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47449	So we think this is one too broad interpretation... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47450	The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Ivan Karic and Mr Blagoja Bradic. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47451	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This amendment adds to what we have already discussed, and this amendment proposes that Article 2 be amended in Article 7. The bottom line is we suggest that "the performance of music and other content, using musical instruments" should not be treated as a violation. If so, it would mean completely removing street artists, which is, we'll agree, very harmful, because the benefits from their performances can be multiple. Street artists are an attraction in all the world's metropolises, and we don't see why their existence would be prevented with us. In addition, an international festival of street artists in Novi Sad, traditionally held every autumn, is also known. With these legal solutions, this kind of art is completely unthinkable. The explanation of why the amendment is rejected is similar to that of the previous amendments, which we have discussed. But I would like to point out once again that we are really proposing that you consider the possibility of installing this into the Law on Public Order and Peace, because it would be an indicative normation that would give the framework and the basis and local self-governments and make them kind of regulate their acts. The question is, you said who's in power and who's capable, so I don't measure local self-government, but how people live. But there are so many economic, social problems that really local self-governments find it hard to deal with both these problems and I don't mind, with us in the municipality she's in power and the SNS, but I really didn't see that they're almost here to put a decision like this on the agenda, because she has a lot more life-threatening, existential problem. But by giving a legal framework to this law, they would be encouraged to deal with this problem as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47452	Thank you, Mrs. Korach. The word has a minister. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47453	This is what we discussed earlier, but it's not hard for me to repeat. So local self-governments are the ones that define where, in any way and how anything can be performed, so to speak, these kinds of musical performances, street players that play anywhere, etc. But we must define, we must not leave the citizens without being able to abuse that application, because there is no breach of public order and peace if no one is upset and no one has reported it. Imagine if he took some 20 drummers and walked up and down your street and said, "I'm sorry, this is a musical performance, you'd be an hour later, probably the whole street would call the police and say, "What's going on?" "Come to intervene, and we say, "Don't, wait," so this can't be treated as a violation of public order and peace." So you can't leave the state without being able to respond to the call of citizens. It's the citizens who pay us all, they can call and say, "I'm sorry, we feel a disturbance, a violation of public order and peace, and then the state doesn't have an instrument." No one has ever come to remove the street players, so you have in the Prince of Michael today, at least one 20 of them, neither one who takes them away, nor anyone who intends to harass them. But, you know, they take, just like I did, and they start marching through the street, where we have a hospital, where we have a school, where we have a theater, then the state needs an instrument, then we can't invent an instrument and say, well, here we are now, we like it, we intervene. Then we say - member of this law and that law, gentlemen please leave this area, you can't do it here and that's it. Unless they have an orderly license, local self-government, which says, you can do whatever you want here, and then you can do whatever you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47454	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Marjanovic, Natasa Vukovic and Jovanovic Jovanovic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. To the title above Articles 8 and 8 of the amendment was submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. The word is made by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go, Mr. Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47455	Well, this member kind of makes sense, but I think he'd better be embedded in the government's code of conduct. Namely, he says: “Whoever acts rudely, insolently and insolently insolently violates public order and peace, or endangers property, or insults the morals of citizens, will be punished by fines of between 10,000 and 150 thousand dinars, or by working in public interest from 80 to 360 hours. ” I think this punishment could be applied to Mr Vujovic, the finance minister, who insulted healthcare professionals, or doctors. So he could earn a fine of 10 to 150 thousand dinars, or work in the public interest from 80 to 360 hours. He'd finally do something useful. This member may need to be translated into the Code of Conduct of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so that Mr Vujovic is doing something useful for Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47456	Mr. Veselinović, can you explain at least one amendment without insulting anyone? I'm begging you. Mrs. Korać spoke 30 seconds more, I did not interrupt her, Miss Jerkov spoke, I did not interrupt anyone, and you must, with every amendment that you explain to insult either the ministers or your colleagues or the citizens of Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47457	Does Mr. Vujovic deserve sanctions because he insulted healthcare professionals?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47458	I will not allow you to explain the amendments in such a way if people will be offended in the Great Hall of the National Assembly. You're mad at me as much as you want. I will not allow my actions or actions to offend the people of the Great Hall of the National Assembly, offended by the citizens of Serbia. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47459	I must say for the truth, Mr Vujovic has not offended anyone, because Mr Vujovic, as the finance minister of this government, acts in a way that ensures the normal functioning of state finances and that we live on what we earn, that we spend money in a responsible and serious way. I don't think it has anything to do with any insults, insults were the behavior of those ministers that led to 400,000 people out of work, to live out of charity or credit over 8-9%. We can't, of course, delete this member. It is simply rude, insolent or insolent behavior or behaviour that violates public order and peace and threatens the property or insults the morals of citizens. It refers to people who, for example, are now taking a baseball bat and going down the street to beat up your cars. Or people who take off their clothes completely walk down the street. These are people who must be sanctioned because they insult either morale or destroy property or violate public order and peace in terms of the provisions of this article. Therefore, it would be very harmful for Serbian citizens if they had no defence against such attacks, but must have an instrument that sanctions this kind of violation of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47460	The word is from the People's MP Vuceta Toskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47461	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is not possible to propose an amendment that he determines who will be punished by a figure and that it violates a citizen's reputation. So this is a pure hate speech for the simple reason that they cannot accept that this Serbia is going forward and economically and politically, that Aleksandar Vukic is working on it step by step, this country is legally and economically advanced.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47462	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47463	I won't pay attention to what we haven't heard again about the reasons for the amendment itself, so the amendment to Article 8 of the proposed law that treats rude, impertinent and reckless behavior. If anyone in the O.R., and I believe everyone is interested in how the amendment promoter found a connection with what he was saying and that it's in any connection with the amendment, the answer to that is also in the intensity of the amendment itself, which is to delete this article. So, to wipe out rude, insolent and insolent behavior, because all we listen to this morning is exactly that. And all these days. Practically during this entire term. Indecent, impertinent and reckless behavior. The only difference is that this behavior takes place in the National Assembly, so it's somehow protected by parliamentary immunity, so it's not on the street, so it can't be sanctioned. But it doesn't make any difference. For these reasons, I call on us to refuse such an amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47464	Thank you. At the title above Article 9 and Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47465	It is certainly necessary to sanction those who, as the minister said, strip naked, walk or walk the streets, but the insult is also the fact that some people who have studied for 7-8 years have learned – if you are not satisfied with the march across the border. Well, that's insulting, Mr. Minister. Maybe it's not for this law, but it is for the government code and that's what it's about. I didn't insult anyone when I said that we should put it in the government code and that there is where happiness in the government code is possible that some other ministers might have come under the influence of that attitude, perhaps some previous government and some previous governments 10 and 15 years ago. He's supposed to courteous this company. The fact is, but they must, Mr. Minister, set the example first by members of the government. They look at the way they treat citizens and journalists and children and everyone else, and that is why the PRECRET Movement is looking for order in the country and seeking decent behaviour in accordance with the laws, but also in accordance with the morals. If we had the moral value, we wouldn't need this law. All of this is part of moral rules that are stronger in many societies than legal rules. It is not necessary to prescribe that you should say – good afternoon neighbor, that you should get up older on the bus or something.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47466	Time. The word has a minister. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47467	I must say that this has to do with other acts – who, by causing a fight or by participating in it, violates public order and peace will be punished by fines etc., who, by insulting others or by causing violence against others and the threat, violates public order and peace, etc. These are acts that contain the element of violence, and that's why it's important that we have them. That is why it is important to have a sharp sanction and it is envisaged that the state authorities are taking a sharp account of it. When we talk about Minister Vujovic, Minister Vujovic did not say such things. Minister Vujovic said things about how to establish a system that anyone who works can get paid from what he earns. The most beautiful are wishes, because you tell people – when we were in power we did not provide you and now in opposition we will promise you and it is not rational and the citizens of Serbia need to know that they live in real politics, that the authority that promises them something can keep it. The easiest thing to do now in the pre-election period is to make false promises, and then when the elections go by, we've had a little fun. We had that time to see. We didn't have a good time in it, and now we have to do things incomparably more responsibly and seriously, and this government is doing it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47468	I thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has a folk MP, Dr Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47469	Dear Vice President, of course I propose not to accept the proposed amendment because by accepting this amendment, the Proposer is actually offering us and seeking to violate public order and peace, insult, violence, threat or fighting. Let me say that our MP and president of the parliamentary group Zoran Babic was right when he defined in Article 3 at point 11 of the fight in the right sense without the amendment's proposing being wrong. This tells us that the amendment promoter does not read the law and does not read individual members, that it is false and I am ultimately concerned by the interpretation of the proposings of individual members, including this member of the law, and I am most concerned about students who in the wrong way explain certain members of this law because they have the right to the truth, to science and legal evidence, and not to the truth. Finally, his activities as a national MP will be told by Serbian citizens in the elections because by standing up constantly and insulting certain MPs and bringing out false things, the people in the jargon call it that the billmaker has introduced a new fall called, sorry, snotty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47470	On behalf of the above members of the 10th and the 10th Amendment, the National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic, submitted. Thank you. To the title above Article 11 and Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Thank you. The name above Articles 12 and 12 of the amendment was submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47471	The name above this article is – begging. He says – who threatens the calm of citizens or violates public order and peace will be punished by fines from 5,000 to 30,000 dinars or prisons for up to 30 days. You took salaries, you took pensions, you took social benefits, and now you're making it impossible for citizens to even ask for charity. I agree that there are abuses of this, let's say, a begging institute and that begging and those who may not need help. You may, in this way, put someone who has come to ask for a crust of bread under the law, for he troubles the peace of the citizens for God's sake. Didn't you first get it, and now you're sanctioning that fine with 5,000 to 30,000 dinars? What will this man who has lost his pension pay to pay a fine of 30,000 dinars? This law comes at a time that it isn't, coming to in some way shut up, pushing into a corner of citizens who can't survive, who have nothing to survive because the state didn't let them do it. Therefore, the PRECRET Movement considers that this law should not have been passed because it enters the matter of other legislation on the one hand, and on the other hand sanctions what is not realistically sanctioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47472	Time. Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47473	First, the salaries and pensions were taken by you. You took salaries and pensions with irresponsible policies to increase these salaries and pensions in the public sector by abnormal public employment of party party staff, you gave all these people huge salaries, and then you tried to present it to us as the greatest achievement, only to ensure that the economy was maintained, but supported by loans, it maintained the few businesses of private companies that failed, and that's why 400,000 people remained on the street, and then it came to an extent that you couldn't pay any more of those salaries and pensions, so we almost went bankrupt. You kidnapped the citizens of Serbia's salaries and pensions. You're the ones who led to their economic collapse. We had a situation where people at traffic lights couldn't stop how many people they cared about doorknobs and locks and begged for some dinar. That's what it used to look like. Today we have arranged for those people as in every country in Europe and in the world, and in the most developed countries there are people who cannot earn enough for themselves to have even the basics, there are in all the countries of the world, but today we have trained shelters, we have provided social assistance, we have provided the "Red Cross". These institutions can give people enough to have something to eat, not that those who take and abuse children, I'm sorry that you here with one complete ease of irresponsibleness speak, not understanding what's going on on on the street. People abuse children, babies, take them out in the cold. Do you think they're doing this to earn some money to feed those kids? That's what they do to get some criminal that money. That's why kids and those women and all those people doing it. Even 99% of them don't see any of it. It's organized begging, a crime we'll have to prevent on our streets.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47474	Time. Ivana Stojiljković.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47475	I thank the president. Of course, I agree that this amendment should not be accepted too much because this government does not prohibit begging, everyone has the right to ask for mercy, whether it will happen in a public place or not. But in any case, the peace of citizens as public order and peace and the fact is, I personally witnessed when small children were taken out of a luxury car and placed in Belgrade to beg, unfortunately, and I saw such a scene, so it was definitely the support to solve the problem of begging. I'm sorry that today they take care of the people who are begging just the ones who have introduced vagrants into the current law, and they were primarily responsible that 400,000 people, as we've heard, are out of work and many of those people have become vagrants, and vagrants are not the same as beggars, vagrants are people who don't have their own home, who are on the street. I was even interested in these people, and there are also highly educated people and people who have never used social aid, but for some reason, social bad policies have run out of homes. The previous government was still, unfortunately, still subject to the applicable law, punishing such people for the penalty of a minimum of 5,000 dinars and even a thousand were punished by the application of the previous law. Therefore, it should be noted that this Article 12 has been rejected as a violation and, of course, the punishment for the abuse of minors and children has been significantly sharpened. So, definitely this amendment should not be accepted, because it is not well-intentioned, and as this article says, it will bring about a good solution to this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47476	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47477	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, more demagogy and...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47478	Ambassador Sutanovac, just a little quieter, you can throw but quietly. No, well...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47479	Chairman, let me proceed. So, one personal impression to point out before the amendment itself, that the greater demagogue and the more drastic replacement of the thesis in today's debate was not heard, but rather, what was the case earlier with the explanation of this amendment. The replacement of the thesis is reflected in the fact that under the cover of false care for the social status of certain groups, the erasure of a member who sanctions begging is foreseen. We need to get back to the beginning of the debate, so let's say that the SNS, again, the government of the Republic of Serbia is creating from Serbia once a modern, orderly and decent society. The begging is punishable everywhere in the world and will be in Serbia. So, not to look back at that moment of child abuse for those purposes, etc. But what is not punishable, and what is proposed by the amendment and some other MPs are dealing with is false begging. It is a begging vote, it is a hope that out of charity will receive which vote in the elections and for these purposes we can read and that the Turnover Movement is seeking extraordinary elections in Belgrade. Emergency elections in Belgrade, but there's nothing to look for in those elections. (Dragan Sutanovac, from the post: The early elections in Belgrade and this law have nothing to do with it. Please warn him not to throw it at me, I only want one sentence to finish. So this assessment is not mine, this is the rating of Boris Tadic who said it at a press conference when he was asked to comment on a meeting of the coalition's censorship. He says -- there were some people there who represent themselves, possibly their aunt, just quoting what Mr. Tadic said. I don't know who he meant, whether or not the leader of a group of citizens, whether or not the other leaders, but that's what he said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47480	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47481	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment promoter was just talking about morality. In the light of one of his amendments, he also said that the people are hard to live for. Here, I agree with him. People have a hard time living because he and the party of the former regime in their time shared good and evil with the people, and they took good for themselves, and left evil for the people. In their day, it wasn't from the earner, it was from the man in charge. Philosophy was, which led to begging, philosophy was better introduced than produced. We bought other people's goods for someone else's money. That's how they lustrated factory workers, 400,000 of them. Now imagine this country, that we have 400,000 taxes and contributions, that we don't have 400,000 workers who have been transferred from the revenue side to the spent side and thus made an even greater social cost. Imagine now that we have in the production of 400,000 workers, who lost their jobs while they shared good and evil with the people, taking on good, and leaving evil to the people, leaving lustrated workers out of work, leaving them unemployed, underpaid, imagine that good for the state that they did not do so and that they did not rule in the previous period in the way they ruled. I think such amendments, which are, by the way, messy, because this amendment has also been proposed by the MP, not by the MP, and when he writes Dr. Legal Science, Dr. Rights, it is almost unimaginable and such amendments should be rejected. I don't think you should pay any attention to that, because she has a saying: Lion hunters shouldn't spend ammunition on rabbits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47482	The word is made by MP Dragan Sutanovac, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47483	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the last three speakers have broken it, and you, the chairman, are obviously sympathetic, because you have a manner of taking away the word from the opposition, without listening to or listening to what the MPs of the government or regime say, because what they're saying has absolutely nothing to do with this law, so we've had a chance to hear that the former regime is guilty and the law in which the wandering took place, and the law passed before there was a party of the former regime, meaning in 1992, a colleague from Uzic, you should at least know. What does Boris Tadic have to do with this law today, I also don't know what the factories have to do with it, when we know that you closed the factories, that you cut salaries and pensions, increased all taxes, taxes on property, everything that exists as a violation of Serbian citizens has been taken, yes, and you talk about it as having to do with this law. This has nothing to do with this law, or the amendments we're discussing. I'm just repeating what's been said to distract you, because when I say that something wakes up inside you and you react, you understand? So, when the minister says you haven't cut your pensions and salaries, Serbian citizens should know that you've increased them by 1.25%, and previously reduced by 20%. The same goes for taxes. When the minister says you didn't raise taxes, they should know that all taxes were lower by 2012. I'm just asking you to have the same archin and let, if we're talking about the subject, it's not a problem to talk about the subject, because the results of this government are devastating in every segment, but it doesn't contribute to the improvement of this law, nor does it affect a member proposed by Mr. Janko Vesenović. I'd like to ask you one more thing to try and stop it. All the time, there have been attempts to discredit the MPs who have given amendments. It's not about the amendment all the time, it's about the character and the work of the MPs. It's not allowed, it's a disaster.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47484	Are you asking for the Assembly to come forward in the day of voting for the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. So you're asking me to be rigid? (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: "Principle". So lions and rabbits don't mention each other anymore. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: If they are not in the law, I don't see why they should be mentioned.) ) Okay, but he's got begging, so the MP who suggested it was very collectively explained what he meant by begging and why to erase, although begging is a dangerous crime, and we are all aware that there is no such begging as the Proposer tried to explain it, because of poverty, but it is a very dangerous crime where women, children, sick, etc., are being abused, that I am not giving lectures now, and he was talking about poverty. Then Marijan Risticevic has the right to speak in his own way about lions and rabbits and about begging votes. So I'm principled, I didn't stop anyone. I'm trying, no one's perfect, but we're going to vote on hurting the Rules of Procedure. The word has Minister Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47485	Thank you very much. So, it is not, as Mrs Stojiljkovic said well, forbidden to beg, but only to violate public order and peace by performing begging, as it is perfectly normal. It's important for me to say that although various things have been said, pensions by 61% of pensioners have not been reduced by a dinar, and now they've been increased for the first time, increased for these people. Not enough. Maybe people will say - we need more. Of course, yes, but for the first time in a long time, 61% of people's pensions have been increased. Of course, for that part of the people, for the new 20% that are minimally reduced, one part of them is compensated and for that part of the people to whom they're slightly more reduced one piece returns. Also, when the IMF, the World Bank, the EU, the Russian Federation, China and other serious world institutions, states, forces and organisations say that this government is doing well, I certainly don't think that considering their diversity, they say that because we are particularly sympathetic to them, but because they see results. Unfortunately, the results in the past, in robbery policy, could also be seen by citizens of Serbia. Now they see how politics is run in one responsible and serious way.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47486	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Ivana Stojiljković, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47487	Thank you, President. I just have to say to my colleagues that I didn't say at all that the DS or previous government had passed this law. You can definitely check that out. Yes, the law was passed in 1992, but they applied this law for 12 years and did not notice at all that there was a difference between vagrantism and begging. It was obviously the same for them, so the vagrants identified it with bold and rude behavior and all that we consider to be begging. Of course, the one that's bad for this company. What I also wanted to say is that I was interested in this and that I found the magazine "Face of the Street", in which I found that they brought out, those who protect people who deal with drifting, that in the previous 15 years about 1,000 homeless people have been punished with 5,000 dinars minimum because they are homeless, and nothing else has worked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47488	Thank you. They're on amendment 12... (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: Replica! What? No, there's no replica. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place, how is there no?) The lady made a mistake, accused the DS and said the DS had been in power for 12 years. How was she not in power? You're still in power in the AP Vojvodina, and you can't get a replica. She didn't say absolutely false. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Autonomous province does not enforce this law. Thank you very much. The word has a People's MP Meho Omerovic, has an advantage. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47489	I thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, in our society, we are faced with a problem called the so-called child's begging. Children of the street, under quotes, as these little human beings are also called, are often exposed to every form of torture. We witness every day, especially in large cities, that there are only babies born on sidewalks, in arms or next to their mother, who are objects and someone who should eventually attract the pity of an ordinary citizen to gain some affection in terms of monetary help or something else. The problems in our law, not only in this law that is not, I would say, basic or systematic when it comes to this very dangerous and complex phenomenon, are that we have certain laws, I'm also talking about the Criminal Code, where these children and through the laws of violations appear in some way in our existing legislation as law-abiding, which is, you'll agree, out of every sense. So someone who abuses a child who is still unconscious, because he may be a year or two or three days old, knowingly putting him on various risks, from time to time, through some others, leads him into a situation, and our legislator, or we see him as a breaker. We have to do everything to make these people what they are - victims. So, in this case, these kids, whether the little babies that just came out of the maternity ward, so mothers abuse them for begging, or something else, are the people who are the victims. I think that in the next period and through the laws that this law provides for today, we must first of all increase the penalties. We need to increase the penalties that you will agree, regardless of the level of development and the standards of our society, are mild. So the penalties for these phenomena and these violations would have to be greater. On the other hand, I think it is very important that the information I possess gives me the right, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia proposes also the adoption of a national strategy for the protection of the rights of the child. I think that the national strategy for children's rights should also make some changes and additions to the laws that will regulate this area. First of all, I'm talking about one system law that would be a law on the rights of a child. So, from this law that I believe will soon be found on the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we can look at in a comprehensive way the problems facing children in our society and then also arrange that area through what is called sanctioning violations in every sense of the word. That's it. I thank you, President.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47490	Thank you. National MPs Vesna Marjanovic, Natasa Vukkovic and Jovanovic submitted the 12th amendment together. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The Committee on Defence and Home Affairs submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Minister, do they accept the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47491	I accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47492	Thank you. I find the minister has accepted the amendment. Under the name above Articles 13 and 13 of the amendment, MP Janko Veselinovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of members 14th and Article 14th of the amendment, MP Janko Veselinovic submitted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47493	This Article 14 proves certain senselessness of this law, Mr Stefanovic. The name above this article stands – unauthorized resale of tickets. Well, Mr. Stefanovic, we don't have any tickets at all. What's to resell? So, do you see what you've brought this country to? This member proves what you've brought this country to. So, there are no cases of misdemeanor, Mr. Stefanovic. The cards in Serbia are now shared with members of the SNS. So there can't be a ticket resale where it could have been because, say, it was more of a demand than an offer. You've shared membership cards with public enterprises, your members, etc. So, tickets. (Zoran Babić, from the place: Well, membership cards are shared with members. To those who have membership cards, yes. So the membership card became a condition for life and death. Tomorrow the membership card will be a condition for entering the bakery, for those who have something to buy bread from. So, a completely unnecessary member, Mr. Stefanovic. Unnecessary member because he doesn't have a ticket resale, since he doesn't have a ticket sale. To resell, they have to be sold first. As I was saying, on behalf of the Turnover Movement, I suggest you withdraw this law and see what's left of the skeletons of this law that makes sense at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47494	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47495	That's what you've mixed us up with yourself, Mr. Veselinovic. It was manners and behavior as it used to be done in the past, so they couldn't do it in large stadiums where it gathered under 100,000 people, because so many of those parties together had neither members nor sympathisers, they could barely get their votes together, and then they were running on those stadiums with a terrible thing to everyone. It was terrible for the members of that government. Anyway, they weren't supposed to show up at public events, because they couldn't hear what was going on in the stadium from how much they whistled and what they were saying. I don't think that's a good thing and it's a positive thing, only then those people were called, they were diaries, headlines, media, they were diaries, they were organized, they were hordes, they were like these, they were criminals who dared to say that. Now, that's God-awful. However, the campaign of lies against the SNS and these governments obviously does not produce results and therefore so much anxiety. Namely, when said – divided by 16,000 cards by party officials, champions, SNS people, then it serves as a campaign to the game, and then a 15-day trumpet. Then some people answer, I watch, on social networks and say -- you know, it's not true, I bought, I was there, I bought, it's not like that, and I'm not a SNS fan. Then they say, "One contigent has been released." Most of them do. Then they came and ran a conjugal campaign: behold, they whistled at the Arena. Well, wait, did you lie when you said we shared ours, or when? Anyway, that lie campaign isn't gonna work. We will not pay the racket to those media who are campaigning against us, nor will we yield, nor will we obey. We will lead the kind of policy that we think Serbian citizens deserve, and that is why we will win, for Serbia's citizens and for the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47496	Under the name above Articles 15 and 15 of the amendment was submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47497	Dear Chairman, good afternoon. I'm glad to see you in that place, your understanding of the opposition, in which you will soon, is certainly on the level. Mr. Minister, therefore, this member and the title above the member says - the harassment of citizens by returning, prophesying or similar deception. Who goes from door to door and returns, prophesies fate, dreams and deceives Serbian citizens? Has anyone been able to identify themselves in this text? Do you think, Mr. Stefanovic, that maybe we could look around a little bit and see that maybe there aren't some people in your party who visit citizens and deceive with voter lists, return or talk about what won't be achieved? So again, one member of the law with which you have fallen into your own trap, Mr. Stefanovic. So this can only be applied to you, such mass harassment, returning, prophesying fate, and interpretation of dreams, there is nowhere but in SNS. So, Mr. Stefanovic, withdraw this law, you will come under his attack.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47498	The word has Minister Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47499	I don't know who recognized him, maybe someone who requested the removal of this member. But as for the activities undertaken by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Interior, they will be directed in a way that protects citizens from any person who in this way is involved in taking their money, their assets, which deal with the fact that they are left out of work, who are engaged in the absence of their factories, who are doing so by promising them towers and cities, and that they are ultimately counting on how many hundreds of people are left out of work each day, however, people who come to work are being measured today. I am pleased, as Minister, to see that the standard has changed with the citizens of Serbia and that they are looking for more today. They didn't expect anything from the previous governments. They were happy to return home with a job that day. They were happy, I didn't lose my job today -- not bad, because many around them lost their jobs. Today people still have a higher standard and they're looking for new jobs, and I'm glad. Of course, as far as the activities carried out by people in accordance with the law are concerned, gathering support for elections in the "safe vote" activities, of course, those parties that are well-organised, who have enough people and who are not ashamed to show up at the door. You know, when you have a cheek, when you've done something in that local self-government or in a state or anywhere, you go to people at the door and you're not afraid of people thinking what they're going to tell you. There are those who can't go to the door, they can't go to the citizens, and that's why they don't get the laws or anything. It would be best if someone else could bring them into power, but they can't, they have to be citizens. That's why everyone who asked, I don't know, I see one part of the hysteria about the election, everyone's looking for a new election. Now we have new choices, or we'll have them. In those elections, citizens will be judges. I can't wait a day after, to see what many will say.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47500	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47501	One brief replica, Mr. Chairman, for mentioning the SNS. You see, I have listened carefully to the explanation of the amendment's proposing. He is in a second sentence, welcoming you, Mr. Chairman, even though you are here all the time, although I always look forward to seeing you, to you as a colleague, but he took advantage of the opportunity and said in the last part of the sentence – and you, too, Mr. Chairman, will be in opposition. He thus showed what return, prophesying, and similar activities were. Well, keep an eye on someone who's supposed to fight prophesying, returning, when he's doing it here in the National Assembly, explaining his amendment to you, Mr. Chairman, who you're not a member of the SNS, who you're a wonderful colleague and friend and respected by almost all the MPs and MPs. What's more than this part of a sentence where I could take it as a threat, but it's more like a return and prophesy? So instead of these citizens' associations, it's better to start some prophesying agency, some fortune teller company, some lady Vanga firm, I think he might be doing better.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47502	Thank you, Granny. I couldn't replicate, as chairman. Mr. Janko, do you want a replica? I don't know what. No, I don't. Thank you. No, I kept my mouth shut, Mr. Veselinovic, all that. Especially I don't think there was any room to involve the parties now, but good. I kept my mouth shut, and I let you say it all the way. Prof. Janko Veselinović submitted to the 16th Amendment. Here you go. Do you want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Stefan Miladanovic. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The word has a folk MP, Stefan Miladanovic. Here you go, Stefana.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47503	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, I will, in fact, explain in a few minutes the reasons for the submission of this amendment. First of all, I want to thank the Ministry for understanding and for recognising the importance of this amendment. So far, it has been punishable in the Republic of Serbia only to provide prostitution services. We, by adding another illegal feature, that is, by punishing those who use these services, in fact wanted to correct in one way the injustice that has been in Serbia for years, which is that, you will agree, it is not fair for only those who provide these services, or only one person in this offence to be punished. In the debate, in principle, I talked about different approaches and different practices that exist in the European Union countries as well as in the world. Whatever approaches, from legalization that exists in some countries to a complete ban on prostitution, from access to prostitution, it is tolerated. All these countries are certain, and my colleagues will agree with me, they will not promote this oldest trade. The opinion itself states that the amendment is accepted for the reasons set out in the reasoning. I'll give you two reasons. The first is the reduction of prostitution in Serbia. I believe this is the way it's going, i.e. To this extent, the number of potential users of these services is smaller, and thus the number of those who provide these services, but I also think that this measure can be one step towards introducing a model that is extremely significant for Serbia and I would say perhaps the best, if we take into account all the circumstances in which we live today, which is the introduction of a Swedish model, and I ask the Ministry to prepare a broader public debate and perhaps change this law in the next period, and based on the results that this measure will give. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47504	Thank you. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Martinović, Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47505	I would not now like to compromise the explanation for which our amendment has not been accepted, and almost the same text has accepted the amendment of a colleague who addressed us, but I will explain this amendment. Simply, this law in Article 4 states that certain nouns are listed in the male race, and are used as neutral, for male and female. Article 16 states who commits prostitution, therefore, can be both a man and a woman, or the resignation of a room for prostitution, will be fined 50 to 150 thousand dinars or prisons from 30 to 60 days. We felt it was necessary to add the part in which it is said - who is using prostitution services will also be fined from 50,000 to 150,000 dinars. I'm sorry we didn't even put on a bigger sentence. I think users should have more punishment, as I think in law there should have been more punishment for those who rent space, or are practically organizers of such a part. I completely lie about this amendment that was adopted, and we'll agree that you adopted, practically my amendment, because there's no difference and no explanation as to whether one of them is adopted, and one of them can't, and they're identical, so it's not a topic. Mr. Minister, I'm going to use it briefly to tell you, since you're talking about how many people are going to be out of a job, who's lost their jobs, I'd like you to take a little time to deal with people who are dealing with them right now, if I understand that risk analysis, some 1,500 people you've put in there within the Ministry of Defense and who are expecting, not even close to that, or some, if I understand, people who are in the emergency sector, who have crossed over from the Department of Defense Emergency, 300 of them who have crossed over, about 250 are planning to be fired. So, this reform that Minister Dacic was doing, in his own time, if it goes to the expense of those people who have moved from the Defense Department to dismiss people who worked at the most difficult times, when the country was in a state of war, I think it's completely inappropriate. I got a series of performances from those people who work all over Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47506	The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47507	I'm sorry you didn't propose a bigger sentence, but I would have accepted it, but it wasn't suggested. As for the amendments you proposed, I thought the previous amendment of our colleague Stefana Miladanovic was more precise, let me put it in a better language, but the essence is the same. So now we punish all those involved in this process. Of course, we talked about it, and Stefan did it well, we have to think about it when it's been a few months or some time, we have to analyze the results of this, because sometimes the unsub, the user and the service provider agree, if they know they're both going to respond to the law, then it'll be easier to agree, and we'll find a witness who will testify in the process and come to some criminal verdict, or criminal verdict, depending on what the act is. Anyway, I don't think it's too bad to try, try to show that as a society, we stand up to it. As for everything else, we had a situation, and while you were the secretary of defense, you retired a large number of people, who were very young, retired. One of them is in this room, not right now, but one of them is General Moma Stojanovic, who retired at 45. You know, if you convince me that someone with 45 years of life as a general has retired, and a participant is a war, and that's what you wanted to raise the military's martial law, I don't believe that. Especially since I know that from what was made as an agreement, so those people who moved from the Ministry of Defence to the Ministry of Defense to the Ministry, but the military refused for years to hand over the facilities, equipment and what they needed to solve emergency situations, there I see a completely hypocritical relationship and I see that there was no desire to do so, Mr Vukic was the same State Secretary of the Interior Ministry, so he can say something about it. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47508	Mr. Sutanovac, just a little please. So, if it's a replica to the part where people are fired, which is off-limits, I don't think it makes any sense. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: It makes sense if false is told. ) No, but you started there, although you had no right, to run another topic, which was past the amendment, and I allowed it. I should have interrupted you right away. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: You can't do this, I have the right to reply because I am directly mentioned and negatively and falsely. I won't let you. I don't want to just spread the debate. Then you shouldn't have started that topic at all. I can't fix what's true here, what's false. So let's move on. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: According to the Rules of Procedure.) Here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47509	Yes, I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure. Namely, a member of 106 and 107 was injured. So in 106, it means you can talk about the points of the agenda. I am Mr. Chairman responding to what the minister said about how many hundreds of thousands of people lost their jobs, and 107 was when the minister told the lie and accused me of being the defence minister when General Momir Stojanovic was removed and later retired. Mr. Stefanovic, I have nothing to do with this. Mr. Momir Stojanovic, the MP was retired during the Serbia-Montenegro Army. I was neither a minister at the time, nor was I in power at the time, so you're telling the truth. Apropo of what you say you haven't taken over from the Department of Defense, so four years run the Ministry, four full years, so take whatever you need.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47510	Thank you, Mr. Sutanovac, so now it's a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47511	I'm asking you to vote. You've broken the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47512	No, I didn't break it at all, you only challenged the minister because you violated the Rules of Procedure because you talked about another topic besides the amendment. On the other hand, I also here as chairman cannot get into whether someone is telling the truth or not and you know it well that this Rules of Procedure is even allowed to be presented. I can't determine which one of you, I'm not a judge. I know, I know what's true, but it's not mine to talk about here. Thank you very much, Mr. Sutanovac. On behalf of the above members of the 17th and Article 17th, the amendment was submitted by the MP, Professor Janko Veselinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the above members of the 18th and Article 18th Amendment, the MP was submitted by Professor Dr Janko Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Marjanović, Natasa Vukkovic and Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Ivan Karić and Mr Blagoja Bradić together submitted an amendment with an amendment proposing to add a new member 18a. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47513	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, MPs, respected citizens, therefore, member of the 18th original member of the 18th. The law refers to fines in the case of unauthorized and undeclared collection of voluntary contributions. We have proposed that the Ministry and the Government accept the amendment that, after Article 18, a new Article 18a, which reads – Who performs music and other artistic content without informing the competent authority and during the implementation of music and other content, threatens the calm of citizens and does not disrupt public order and peace, will be fined by between 10,000 and 50,000 dinars or by working in the public interest from 40 to 120 hours. Any person who performs musical and other artistic content without notification of the competent authority or the fines of Article 1 shall be punished in a group of three or more persons by a fine of 50,000 to 150,000 dinars or a prison sentence of 30 to 60 days. You were just before when we talked about this subject under this law said that it was settled at the level of local self-government and that local self-government sanctioned everyone for themselves. I think that this amendment would be reasonable to accept because this will balance the criteria in the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia and we will not allow the diversity of sanctioning the same violation in relation to local self-government, and I ask you to consider and accept evening the sanctioning criteria for the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47514	Thank you. On the title above Articles 19 and 19 of the amendment in the same text were tabled by MPs from the country, Prof. Dr. Jankov Veseinović and nine MPs from the DS. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word of the peoples is Ambassador Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47515	Thank you. Minister Stefanovic, you did not respond to what I said just before about who is telling the truth. Here, MP Momir Stojanovic may say there when he retired and whether it has anything to do with me like Stefanovic said earlier. According to us, article 19 should be deleted, he says – after performing the catering and other service activities he fails to notify the police without delay of public order and peace violations at the catering facility will be fined by a fine of 5,000 to 50,000 dinars. The responsible person also from 5,000 to 50,000 dinars, and the legal person from as much as 200,000 to 500,000 dinars. Which is why you're punishing a legal person if someone who's responsible at that point is obliged to do so, which is why a legal person is responsible. I think it's one of the things that's really bad and it's not just in this law, unfortunately, bad, there are other laws in which locals are closed unless the waiter issues a fiscal bill. The responsibility of one who doesn't issue a fiscal account must exist, but he can't take the whole catering facility or the whole hotel because someone hasn't issued a fiscal account. So I think this is a bad solution and you need to accept our proposal to delete this member of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47516	The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47517	This member of the law has been in existence since July 1992, with even the previous, or applicable law, penalties being imposed for those who do not warn persons in the catering facility to commit public order and peace violations. We have deleted it because, of course, we believe that this and this law that we are proposing, but of course logically, is not the job of the caterer to implement the law, or to establish public order and peace, he will call on the police, but when there is a breach of public order and peace in the catering facility which is closed space and which is not subject to the registration of any set and by the Law of Peace, he is obliged to, since it is not a public space, inform the police of the violation of public order and peace, because, simply, if certain things happen, the violation of the law, the execution of criminal offences, and the police do not know, then we have a greater social danger and then we have later and unwanted consequences for many citizens. Especially since it's a place to gather more people. Therefore, we believe that this kind of text, or this kind of member of the law, should exist in order to stimulate those people who own catering facilities, to say that it is their legal obligation and that they must report such a type of offence.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47518	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47519	I thank the chairman. In addition to this argument presented by the Honorable Minister, I also have to make an argument that is purely legal. This article is fully characterized by other laws, first of all, the Law on Infringements, Criminal Law, the Law on Economic Crimes. Why? Because there is one principle which is referred to as the principle of objective responsibility, and this principle of objective responsibility imposes the responsibility of the legal person for any type of illegal action or harmful action taken by a person within that legal, or responsible person. In the Law of Infringements, we have the same responsible person as the legal person for all those illegal acts in which the traits are obtained, we also have in the Criminal Code, we have in the Law on Economic Crimes, therefore, there is absolutely no question whether there should be a liability of a legal person, in any case, should exist, because it is systematically resolved and defined, even by civil laws, in particular by the Law on Liaison and any other system acts. Therefore, this Article 19 is fully, fully characterized by the legal system of the Republic of Serbia and should in no way be changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47520	Thank you. Under the name above Articles 20 and 20 of the amendment was submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the above members of the 21st and Article 21st Amendment, the National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic, submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the title above Articles 22 and 22 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs were submitted by Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and joint MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Ivan Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47521	Mr. Minister, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, MPs of Left Serbia have proposed that this member be deleted. We tried to find another way that Article 22 could be fixed and we failed. In fact, Article 22, respected citizens, says that who insults the official face of the authorities of Article 2 of this law, in the course of official duty, will be fined 50 to 150,000 dinars or prisons from 30 to 60 days. In the proposal for a Law on Public Order and Peace, Article 2 defines that the competent authority for the maintenance of public order and peace is the MUP, the municipal police, inspection authorities and other competent authorities in accordance with the law of the designated area, which means possible members of private security. Member of the 22nd Minister, as you predicted in your proposal, so that citizens would understand who are watching this transmission, perhaps you would insult someone in the performance of their official duties, members of the municipal police, for example, members of private security or members of the MUP, or you personally, ministers, since you are also a member of the MUP, and that you can go to jail for this if we don't have to pay 150,000 dinars. It is a member who, in our opinion, is seriously threatened by the Constitution, guaranteed the right of citizens to freedom of speech, we believe that this member is also unconstitutional, we believe that he is deeply intruding into the rights of Serbian citizens and enables the arbitration of what is offensive and what is insulting to you. Let me give you an example specifically from our practice. If we in the opposition say, for example, that you in the M.P. don't do your job well, or say that members of the municipal police behave arrogantly, violently, insolently, insolently, not doing their job, harassing citizens, it can be defined as insulting the official face. So what's insulting to you, for us is not insulting the other way around. It's only true for the ace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47522	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47523	Of course, it cannot be talked about private security, but it can only be about state authorities that are legally competent to establish public order and peace. What's another important thing is that so far it's been provided for by criminal law. So, so far, you've sanctioned this kind of offence, or criminal offense, by mandatory criminal charges. I'll tell you, in 2010, there were 1094 criminal charges like this. In 2011, it was 1009. In 2012, it was 918. In 2013, it was 890, etc. So the number of these criminal charges is dropping, but they're still a high number. We thought this wasn't supposed to be a crime. It didn't bother your authority or those before you, it doesn't matter, it's not your personal matter, but it didn't bother your authority to do it. At the time it was not unconstitutional, it was normal for someone to say something to a member of the municipal police, who was established at the time of your government, this one in Belgrade, the Belgrade and the largest number of perpetrators was established at the time of your government, so of those people, and it did not mind that these were crimes and that these people were prosecuted by day. And they were prosecuted. We now suggest that they are not prosecuted, that it be criminal, but it's not an insult, it's a very clear matter here, it's not a political matter for you to tell the Minister. You tell the Minister whatever you want and it's a back-up practice since I've been a minister, I know what all the people said, so no one's been missing hair from their heads because of it. But what it is, that we have to allow people, first of all, to represent the interests of members of the MUP, these people in the performance of their regular affairs in accordance with the law, and they are very strictly limited by the laws of what they can and how they can do, that these people can't be objects of insult, that people can't in any way interfere with them in the execution of official shops, because it is the desire of the state to have a normal society, and not the one where you can tell a cop whatever you want because it's probably allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47524	(Borislav Stefanovic, from town: Replica. Mr. Stefanovic, you, what do you want? (Borislav Stefanovic, from town: Replica. Replicu? You have no basis. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the site: I can use the time. You don't have time. The word is from the People's MP Vuceta Toskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47525	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's a miracle for a young man to propose such an amendment, we go to Europe, I don't know what it would be like for everyone to be offended by or by the authorities. I don't think it's right for any of us or anyone to insult anyone. So in the countries of Europe and the world, anyone who insults the competent authority is punished. So this is one law that needs to be regulated by the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47526	Thank you. On Chapter IV, the title above Article 23 and Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) In the title above Article 24 and Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dr Vladimir Orlic, Dusica Stojkovic, Aleksandar Markovic and Nenad Nikolic together submitted the 24th amendment. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Martinović, Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac together submitted to the 24th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47527	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the non-acceptance of the amendments that I have submitted to Article 24 of this bill is, gentlemen and distinguished guests and guests from the Ministry of the Interior, evidence that, with the presence of the Minister of the Interior, the kidnapping of amendments by our People's MPs of the New Party is happening, and I doubt that it would artificially reduce the rating and support of citizens to the New Party in the extraordinary parliamentary elections, which we will obviously have in April or May. Here's what happened, gentlemen. I have submitted an amendment that responds to one inaccuracy in Article 24 and I was given the reason that the amendment is not accepted because the amendment submitted by the MPs SNS: Vladimir Orlic, Dusica Stojkovic, Aleksandar Markovic and Nenad Nikolic. What happened? As in several previous amendments, and in your presence, Minister Stefanovic, we submitted the amendment at 9 and 45 hours, 22 minutes later this famous four, headed by Dr Vladimir Orlic, teaches the same amendment, Mr Arsenovic. So, what does the minister of police do? There he is, Mr. Nikolic is present here, one of the four. The police minister, instead of saying -- I accept the amendment of the New Party MP, Mr Vladimir Pavicevic, because the first handed him over, better explained, more specifically, the minister of police accepts the amendment of SNS members. It favours its political party in this assembly and ignores, gentlemen, the best democratic customs and best democratic practices. Correct this now, Minister Stefanovic, and tell me that you accept my amendment to this member of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47528	Thank you. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Zoran Zivkovic submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47529	I didn't know about this event with the previous amendment. But the objective of my amendment is to further clarify one part that is important for Article 24 which provides for the confiscation of cases used for the execution, violation or addition of the offence or which have been committed. It's defined in this article as being subtracted and taken away, but it doesn't explain further what happens to these items. That is why I propose to add Article 2 which reads - the treatment of temporarily withdrawn items will be carried out in accordance with the rules of the competent authority which has withdrawn the subject. The explanation for refusing this member is that it is impossible. The explanation says that the amendment is not accepted because the temporary confiscation of the case cannot be carried out under the rules of the competent authority which suspends the cases, but only in a way that is prescribed by procedural and material law and criminal law. Which one? How? In what way? When? What's the practice? Nobody said that. It's, like, a completely undefined area. I think the amendment is good, to give a clear state of mind what happens to these items that are, of course, justifiably taken away. I'm asking you to make it right. It would be good to do so on today, when exactly 15 years have been since the first democratic government in Serbia to be chaired by Dr Zoran Djindjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47530	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47531	This would only be about over-noding. That is why, let me say, we have not defined the way you propose, because the Law on Infractions of Article 231 defines the treatment, that is, the temporary confiscation of cases and what happens to them later. And the law on the police and the one we're proposing right now, which is in the process and the one that was before that, is defined by the way. So through these two laws, we have defined all the actions related to the temporary confiscation of objects, so that through this law there is no need to define it in particular.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47532	Thank you. On Chapter IV, the name above Articles 25 and 25 of the amendment was submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Chapter VII, the name above Article 26 and Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Chapter VIII, the name above Article 27 and Article 27 of the amendment was submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Vladimir Orlic, Dusica Stojkovic, Aleksandar Markovic and Nenad Nikolic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 28th of the amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the review of the amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE PUBLIC COMMUNITY LAW You have received amendments submitted by Members of Parliament on the draft law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Ivan Karic and Mr Blagoja Bradic together submitted to the 3rd amendment. The word is by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47533	Thank you. We have submitted an amendment to Article 3 and that intervention in paragraph 1 and in paragraph 2. Namely, Article 3 regulates the concept of public gathering. In position 1, says - gathering within the meaning of this law is considered a gathering of more than 20 people to express and promote state, political, social and national beliefs and objectives and other freedoms and rights in a democratic society. We suggested that the word "social" be deleted. In Article 2, it says - gathering within the meaning of this law is also considered other forms of gathering aimed at achieving religious, cultural, humanitarian, sports, entertainment and other interests. Now, because in attitude 1, we deleted "social", here we find it more logical that after saying "religious" they add the words "sindical, socio-economic". We believe that it is necessary in particular to emphasise the right to express trade union and socio-economic interests of citizens, and in this respect we have proposed that amendments be made in this Article 3.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47534	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47535	It seems to me that in the bill the concept of social terms is given as a broader concept, as something better explained and gave greater freedom to the citizens, although this law is so broad and it says in every attitude – both other freedoms and rights in a democratic society. So you're given the opportunity to gather for whatever you want, you don't have to define at all. You can do without cause, for no reason. But in this sense, I think it's better for the socialists, because you've given in the second part - socio-economics. It doesn't have to be tight about everything that's connected to the social cause of the gathering. It does not have to be strictly and closely related to achieving economic objectives. It can also be to achieve other social goals. In that sense, I think our proposal is better, that it gives greater width and right, even in this very liberal law, and that's why we didn't want to accept your proposal, but I think we understand each other completely, the essence is exactly the same.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47536	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Vesna Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Natasa Vučković, Dragan Sutanovac, Goran Ćirić, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic and Vesna Marjanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. (Dragan Šutanovac, from the place: I answered. I've already passed that amendment, Mr. Sutanovac? (Dear Sutanovac, from the scene: Never mind.) It's no problem for me to return, but I have to read it again. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: "Give me your word." Do you want a word? Yeah. I'll read it one more time, no matter what you haven't been in the system. National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Goran Ćirić, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic and Vesna Marjanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47537	Article 3 defines places where public gatherings can be held, public gatherings announced, and I have full understanding, the lawmaker's desire to limit the possibility of holding public meetings in certain places. (Nebojsa Stefanovic, from town: This is Article 4.) I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47538	Thank you. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Vesna Martinović. Does anyone want a word? (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: I want a word.) Mr. Sutanovac, you are not the bearer of the amendment. You don't have time. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place, what do you mean? I'm authorized in front of a parliamentary group. ) You are not subject to the amendment to Article 6. The applicants are Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Vesna Martinovic. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: I should have my amendment.) Let's move on. The 6th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Aida Ćorovic and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47539	Dear ladies and gentlemen, Article 6 is its content regarding the meeting place and, in our court, it is not good at this content where it is said in the position of Article 2(6). - that no public gathering is allowed in front of the school or, for example, in the area in front of some medical facility. Minister Stefanovic, I'm offering two arguments why I don't think that should stand. First of all, we think this is about an unconstitutional restriction on freedom of assembly. And the other thing, let's imagine one situation, they say that imagining is the qualities of intelligent people, so let's all think about it a little bit. Let's imagine there's a problem, a particular one, about a high school function, for example, a high school. Let's just say that this problem concerns the selection of the school's director for which, for example, parents, teachers, colleagues estimate that they should not run in that way. Minister Stefanovic, so what is more natural than to provide a sort of gathering outside the school, as a kind of reaction, for example, to an unfair action on the intended election of a very poor school director. What would be the problem if a gathering, which is time-limited, was organised in the space of the same school, for a very direct reason, with regard to the functioning of that school, and when time runs out, there are no problems. It seems to us that this position 2 in Article 6 should be deleted, because we estimate that there are some situations that involve the actions of citizens interested in a specific topic, and precisely related to the functioning of this institution, for example, that school, respected gentlemen. We don't need to keep our meeting place unconstitutional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47540	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47541	First, as far as the Constitution is concerned, the Constitution is very clear and the Constitution says that freedom of public gathering is something that is completely free, but can be restricted by law. That's exactly what we're proposing with this law. Why would someone get together in front of the school? Now imagine hundreds of champions who come to school and see this group of people yelling out at the front door, imagine it's your child, to make you feel. What are they doing in the school yard? What's he doing outside the school? Let them go in front of the government, let them go in front of the City Department of Education, let them go in front of the Ministry, let them go in the square, let them go wherever they want. Don't let us gather people in the schoolyards. There's our kids, there's someone playing, there's someone learning. There's nothing about gathering policies, protests, public order violations and peace to work at school. He can't go to school. He can't go to preschool. In front of a health care facility, and then you let kids get together, yell, scream. So there's nothing to do here. Let them go before the Ministry of Health, in front of the government, in front of the Assembly, and gather here. In front of the school, where our children are, we can't, and that applies to everything, and that's best, even though I understand your desire to make democracy in the sense that we have a higher degree of expression of dissension. I absolutely think it's better if no one gets together in front of the school, there's nothing to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47542	Thank you. National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Goran Ćirić, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic and Vesna Marjanovic submitted to the 6th amendment. Here you go, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47543	I thought you just read my name. I think fellow Pavicevic is absolutely right and the explanation you gave, I mean, he's not standing, because if parents get together in front of school, because of something that goes wrong at school, I don't think their children would suffer. On the contrary, I think it's probably for the children's benefit. In this article, for which we propose to delete, stands -- as well as space in front of objects of strategic importance for defence, security of the Republic of Serbia. Excuse me, the Government of the Republic of Serbia is an object of special importance for defence and security. I'm sure it's defined in the defense plans as an object of exceptional importance, just like the Ministry of the Interior. Where are the cops you're firing going tomorrow if they're not going to meet in front of the Home Office? In this case, you're removing their rights. Where do doctors gather when they have a strike? Same in front of the hospital. I don't know how you think it's done, because all the staff meetings in certain institutions happen in front of these institutions. You're saying they can't get together here, but they can go to another address, I don't know, mouth, in front of the secretariat, etc., etc. It doesn't make any sense here. The other thing is, I don't know how you think you're gonna do this. How tomorrow, the Belgrade Police Brigade or the Police Department will implement this ban if the officers you're firing come to you these days, in front of the Home Office. The ministry is certainly an object of strategic importance for the defence of the country. What are you going to do? How will you do? Arrest them, bring them in, file criminal charges, criminal charges? This is bad. We believe that this part of Article 6(2), or point 2, should be deleted because it is inapplicable. You'll see how much in the next month. Then what do we do? Then we'll break the law all together. They will break the law and those who gather together, and those who allow the gathering, and it will be you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47544	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47545	The police don't approve of meetings. The police can only ban them if there are elements to the ban. As for the facilities, of course people can gather in front of the government, in front of the ministries. There were these gatherings. We've already had protests, not as massive as they were at the time when you were in power, but there were these protests, a number of people gathered, and it's for respect. They were talking to these people. As for the MUP, all trade unions are actively involved, at least the biggest ones we can't include anyone forming with 10 members and unions to the greatest extent were satisfied with the solutions we've made, and no more serious gatherings and protests were there and I don't see that there will be any. As far as those solutions are concerned, I was thinking about those facilities of special strategic importance, such as facilities for water, electricity, military facilities, barracks, police facilities, special units, and so on, since there's nothing to gather here, there's a threat to our national security. As for the government building, administrative buildings, as far as the ministry is concerned, as far as all these state buildings are concerned, let whoever wants and however he wants, and as much as he wants, we will not restrict anyone, nor prevent anyone, and here when it says space in front of objects of strategic importance for defence, these facilities may have special strategic importance for defence in a broader sense, but not in terms of this law. In the sense of this law, it's those who directly participate, and these are the objects that I've been talking about for a while. So the government building is an administrative building of government headquarters. You can view everything as something of special importance for the defense, but in fact here we wanted to prevent anyone from coming to school, in front of kindergarten. You say, "Parent." Yeah, but then let's share the parents of those who get together and whose kids might support it, think they have an interest, and then those parents who don't want to, so best to fight in the school yard. What's the reunion doing in the school yard? Let them get together somewhere else, and what's organized by the school is totally fine.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47546	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47547	You know what? The object of strategic and special importance for the defence of the country is both "Telecom" and how are we going to do this? So, if someone gets together in front of Telecom, you're gonna break up that gathering and don't let them. It's the same thing with RTS, it's also an object of importance for this country. Not to mention some NIS or other factories, weapons factories, etc., that the unions are gathering, how do you think you handle it? If you'd defined as you say, individually, that's one thing, this school thing you're talking about, I still disagree. I think what you're proposing is, I'm telling you, inconclusive and the police won't be able to treat the parents who were gathering if the children, God forbid something happened, gathered outside the school, how are you going to intervene? So, on someone's call. Notice, I'm not talking about buildings, so it's not about buildings, I repeat, you didn't listen to me, "Telecom" is an object of strategic importance, and how are we going to do now that someone gets together in front of "Telecoma" what are you going to do? Either RTS, or NIS, or Railway. These are all objects of paramount importance for the defence of the country. So, I think this is bad and I'm staying in the position, you don't have to accept the amendment anyway, but I'm curious, very soon I'm going to have a chance to ask you why you're not solving it under the law, if that's how you decided to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47548	Right to replication, Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47549	Well, in front of these facilities, it's not forbidden to move. You have objects where face movement is forbidden, because they are of particular strategic interest to, you know that certain objects cannot be entered by anyone. A school yard can pass anyone, anyone can pass by the government, through a military factory, a ammunition factory can't pass anyone. (Dear Sutanovac, from the scene: in front. Now, what's the definition in front? Well, it has been defined as defined through other points of this law, but we just want to say that those objects that serve as special strategic importance for the defence of the Republic of Serbia, it is known which objects simply cannot be subject, cannot be a place where there will be a gathering, because they can simply endanger the security of the Republic of Serbia. Then you can always define yourself, do you want them to gather in front of the barracks, in front of the facility where some special units come from, because it's the right of citizens to get together, what if their children are serving the army there, etc., and we have provisions of this law that define spontaneous gathering, for example, as a parent reaction to an event, because parents are free to gather, because it's a spontaneous gathering that isn't defined. We have a reunion that someone invited, there's nothing to invite them in front of the school. But if people spontaneously gather in response to an event, it's something this law treats in a completely different way. But we need to build that kind of thinking in society, in front of where our children are learning, where they spend time, where they live, there's nothing to do in the gathering. What's someone going to get together there? Well, then there's no outside kindergarten. It's simple, what's the difference, is that children of six go here and here for seven years. It doesn't make any difference.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47550	Thank you, Minister. According to the amendment, MP Momir Stojanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47551	Thank you, Chairman. I think this controversy is devoid of any basis when it comes to gathering in front of objects of particular importance for the defence of the country. You, as a former professional soldier, me, and the former minister knows that the government's decision defines objects of special importance to defend the country. They're taxing numbers. In a broader sense, all facilities in this country are of particular importance to the country's defence, if we also observe Telecom. But you know as well as the former minister who are objects of special importance. The government's decision defines objects of particular importance for the defence of the country, and these objects are meant here when Mr. Minister explains the amendment to this article. I fully support what I was about to say, and Mr. Minister said before me, what is the difference between spontaneous gathering and gathering when someone calls an organized gathering when someone organizes that gathering. There's nothing to organize protest meetings in front of our preschool, school institutions and I fully support this solution in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47552	Thank you. A group of ten SDS-Boris Tadic submitted to the 6th amendment. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47553	Thank you. Obviously, most of us have similar views and, as far as this article is concerned, the amendments are similar to us. Namely, our parliamentary group has tabled an amendment proposing that in Article 6. – the right to gather can only be limited if it is necessary for the safety of people and property, public health, morals, other and security rights of the Republic of Serbia. This is regulated by Article 8. It's a bill of law. The ban on public gathering in front of a health institution or school, or preschool, is directly contrary to the right to strike, for example. Then, it is not clear that a public gathering in front of these institutions could jeopardise the security of people and property, public health, morals, the rights of other or security of the Republic of Serbia, which is the basis for the ban. As regards the second intervention in the article, the draft law in paragraph 3 provides that the gathering is prohibited in places where human and minority rights and freedoms of others are being violated by the maintenance of the gathering. We believe that this provision is general and that it is indeterminate and that it is very wide for interpretation. Then it is not clear what places they are and who determines them. In addition, the violation of rights and freedom or the threat of morality is not the result of the place where the gathering is held and where the gathering is organised, but rather the way these gatherings are organised, which is a completely separate issue. For these reasons, we have proposed that Article 6 be amended.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47554	Thank you, Word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47555	You're wrong. So, most, first of all the MPs, as far as I've heard, don't share your opinion, from what I've heard in the debate so far. As far as school is concerned, most people feel that there is no need for anyone to gather in front of school or kindergarten. I believe that if we were to question the citizens, as a parent of a four-year-old child, I absolutely don't want anyone, nor the party I belong to, gathering in front of kindergarten. What's he doing there? That's kindergarten, that's where my four-year-old goes, there's no one there to gather. If he wants to go, let him gather wherever he wants, there are our children. Those kids can only be scared of most people. As far as the strike is concerned, when we're talking about stopping work, if we stop working on the territory of the institution's facility, it takes place at the workplace, according to the Strike Act. If these people get together on the street, in the square, etc. And so they carry out the strike, and then they're not in that institution, and then they're about public gatherings. So it has nothing to do with that. But I'm still standing in front of the school, there's no reunion.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47556	I thank you, Mr. Minister. Professor Janko Veselinović submitted to the 7th amendment. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47557	Thank you, this amendment to the Turnover Movement has worked together with the Union of Pensioners, with which we have a protocol on co-operation. Let me remind you, it's the largest pensioner organization with 300,000 members. They have, of course, recognized in the turn of people who represent the views of pensioners, and they demand that this member be deleted. Why? Well, because they, together with union organizations, have no others, but to ask the government, through protests, their rights. You say - public gatherings can be held by the rule of time between 6 and 24 hours. What if they decide to stay 24 hours, or stay on the streets until you meet their demands, Mr. Stefanovic? If they say, as a police officer said just before he was fired, now I'm going to tell you what he says, he says, "I'm one of those 1500 cops we're about to fire." How and what am I going to do when I get fired, I don't know, and I have to feed two daughters and a woman who works occasionally and on replacements? What will this man who works in your ministry specifically do when he's out of a job? To go home at 24 hours, to sleep peacefully? Well, he's got to stay on the street, he's got nowhere else to go. So we ask that this member be deleted, simply enough is the constitutional provision that a public gathering is free and no one can limit time and place, or place in certain cases. In any case, do not limit the freedom of gathering in time, as simply Serbian citizens have no choice but to the street, Mr Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47558	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47559	I know you've all tried to drive all the citizens out into the street at the time of your government, but fortunately you didn't make it. Unfortunately, you succeeded in the case of about 400,000 people who were out of a job and then you didn't care what they were going to do and their children and their wives, what they were going to do after 24 or 6 in the morning or 7 in the morning. You didn't care about that at the time, it was nice for you, for your authority, for your own good, for your own good, for your own good. But first because of a few false information, it's not about 1,500 people, as one unwitting campaign is being held for days, these people are less than 1,050, not 1,500, less than 1,050. Of those 1,050 somewhere around half the administrations, and these people also have women, children, etc., but they're party employees in various times and from various parties, I'm not going to bid on them at all. The time has come for either Serbian citizens, others, to take over the burden so that we can impose more taxes on them to pay their salaries and support them or to reduce the number of employees in the public administration. If you think someone likes to carry out unpopular and difficult measures, they don't like anyone, but sometimes someone has to take responsibility in the country for heavy measures. I know that sometimes some people didn't have the courage, or would ever do it, but someone has to do it, and at this point, unfortunately, that's the way it has to be done. As far as pensioners are concerned, I am convinced that these people are the most responsible part of our society and they fully understand the purpose of this law and that they will also be responsible and serious. As for the text of the law, he says – public gatherings can be held, so inserted, by the rules, in the time between six and 24 hours. So it could be another time. It could be three nights and one night and it could be five in the morning. I haven't noticed the mass gatherings around two in the morning or three in the morning, but we've also left that possibility as something that citizens can. After all, you always have the possibility of judicial protection and the court ultimately decides whether you can or can't do something, not the senior authorities of the executive authority, and that's why I think the law is good.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47560	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47561	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I don't think the Law of Public Assembly touches the representatives of the opposition. It is hardly that any party of theirs, and especially not an organisation – an NGO of fellow proposings can bring together 20 people. They almost have more parties and organisations than voters who will vote for them. So this law doesn't touch them. It takes 20 people for a public gathering. I doubt it. I doubt it. I doubt it. For those reasons, I don't see why the proposer got so far, but when he's already talking about the people being left on the street, I agree with him. I agree there's a street left for the people. I remember in 2000 when the huge energy of the citizens was invested in one change, the enormous energy of the citizens was spent in vain, not because the citizens did not want to take care of society, but because those who led them left them on the street without any rights, and during that time they put themselves instead of torn shoes, jeans, in Armani suits and other luxury brands. They left the people on the street and put themselves in the castles. So they, like some ruling elite, began to live like a fairy tale, and the people lived like a bass. While they were living, biting lobsters in the Maldives along with their tycoons, the people with empty pockets, empty stomachs were unemployed, jobless, factory, wandering around industrial suburbs. That's why the people are on the street, and that's why I agree with the amendment that they're the ones who left that people on the street, and that should be more than clear. Therefore, I believe that they will never, especially this organization – the craftsman's association, get a chance to bring together 20 people who will support such an option. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47562	The word is made by the MPs of the People's Republic of Mira Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47563	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers of Associates, I would like for the sake of the truth and the citizens of Serbia who are watching this programme to say that the union that the last colleague is being called in the jargon is being called a phantom organisation. Of the 300,000 members, he can only dream. Simply, I think that the citizens of Serbia should know, they should know that indeed the pensioners were citizens of Serbia who knew what it was that had to be done for this country, which must be tolerated. They've always done it disciplinedly, so I think I just wanted to draw attention to the truths that have been said here.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47564	Thank you. The 7th Amendment in the same text was submitted by MPs Aida Ćorović, joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, joint MPs Gordana Comic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Vesna Martinovic. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go, Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47565	How about you ensure the minister's presence?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47566	The minister came out for a moment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47567	Let's break it up for a second. It's completely pointless for me to talk if the minister isn't here. That is the basic rule of the amendment debate. No one else can answer except the minister. No one else can decide that. Five minutes break. Two minutes break. I'll wait.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47568	Mr. Sutanovac, the minister will be back. He went out for a moment outside the O.R. He'll be back in the O.R. real soon, so please wait. Be patient. Here you go, Mr. Sutanovac. Imagine a break and take a walk. [[Dear Sutanovac, from the place: We could take a break.]] Is there anyone besides Mr. Zivkovic who would like to speak on this amendment? No, I don't. ) Here you are, Mr. Zivkovic, the minister is in the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47569	Article 7 defines the time for public gatherings and says they can be maintained by the rule of time between six hours and 24 hours. As soon as you have something “by law, ” that means you are better off not having a member, it means that you can do so at another time. If he can do it in another time, that means he can do it from 00 to 24, and if he can do it from 00 to 24 hours, then there's no need to have this member. The possibility of arbitration is given here, that someone can decide again who can between 24 and 6 hours and who can't. The reason for the refusal of amendments is that these gatherings can also be held during 24 to 6 hours, depending on the nature and purpose of the gathering – a new year, sports meetings and others. Then why are you putting this member in this law? It's completely pointless, except in the case of arbitration. You have examples of colleagues. The main problem is that this law applies to all gatherings. When you were talking about pre-school gatherings, in front of kindergarten, of course it's possible to get together in front of the school, let's say when school makes sports games, when it's a high school, of course it's gatherings. It's not just political gatherings and it's an objection to the whole law, what does it define? Therefore, in order for this law to be relieved of this stupid norm that it says - it can, and it doesn't have to, and I'm going to decide how it can, and how it can't, I suggest you delete this law. You've got a lot of parameters in other members that you can limit your meetings with.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47570	Time. Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47571	In the final instance, the court decides, and it is the court that determines whether anything can or cannot. Why is this police-angle norm and the security corner of the citizens needed? First, you have a standard that says that, in fact, a set of six to 24 hours is held, when you have enough police officers that can be available for security, without additional costs for the Republic of Serbia. When you have a preparedness from 00 to 24 hours, you have the opportunity to keep everyone who comes to mind in two nights' time and you need to keep one entire police brigade on alert, pay more to get everyone who kills themselves here out of care for police officers, to look for their extra exorcism and torture, etc. On the other hand, of course we have a time in which the experience so far has shown that there is really no excessive number of public gatherings from 24 to 6 in the morning, there is really no large number of people in that period. On the other hand, there are, of course, places that are organised by caterers, etc., there are other laws that regulate it, so it is not a public gathering in this sense, especially when a public gathering in a closed area is no longer subject to registration. Of course, we have the possibility to grant an extraordinary gathering after 24 hours, or not to ban it, since the police do not approve, not to ban the gathering because it is completely natural and completely normal. We have a spontaneous gathering, which is why we wanted to bring it in special, because our football players, as everyone pointed out, can win at three o'clock in the morning on another continent, and then there's a spontaneous public gathering on the streets and that this public gathering wouldn't be illegal, and then we have the possibility of people gathering at that time. In any case, the largest number of public gatherings under the current law were from 7 to 23 hours, we expanded from 6 to 24 hours, so the new two hours, greater freedom and greater breadth than it was in 2000 and here, more freedom to gather. I'm surprised some who suggest it today didn't suggest it themselves in the amendments to various laws when they were everything and managed this country. We've shown that in two hours we've given citizens more rights to come together, and even by the rule, which means they can come together during the night. That hasn't been possible so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47572	Thank you, Mr. Minister. On what basis, Mr. Zivkovic? (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: That is what you should know. ) I estimate by the Rules of Procedure that you do not have the right to reply, but we will see after Mr. Risticevic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47573	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, as far as the time and place of gathering is concerned, of course, it does not depend on the police, even the least on the citizens. That we're going to be champions in Latin America in some sport, that comes in our time after 24 hours. Our youth, it wasn't like that once, is now starting to come out at 11 o'clock at night. They are always there in Belgrade, and they gather very quickly, watching live and broadcast thanks to satellites, etc., with modern communications, very quickly wanting to celebrate. The gathering is under the rule of 24 hours, but I have cited one exception to spontaneous gathering, and perhaps scheduled gathering, that after some great victory, such as the one that was now, winning the European Championship, where water politicians themselves thank the great organization and the great cheerleading of those who had cards, therefore, in such situations the gathering is most likely allowed after 24 hours. That's why it's here that, as a rule, the gathering takes up to 24 hours, which doesn't mean that it can't be in another term, and I've already given you an objective reason for that. For example, in Kruševec, gatherings are held in the evening at a meeting of the Association of Vineyards. Unsatisfactory that they did not exercise the right to subsidies, although here, there are colleagues who know that such people are coming to me, dissatisfied because they didn't get a grant for plantings up to 10 ha. They hear in a late-night transmission here that someone got to 50 ha, that they didn't have registered ownership in the spring, that they didn't meet the condition, that they got it, that those who met all those conditions didn't get that right. For example, they are so dissatisfied with going to Belgrade, holding a meeting in the evening, they have to predict that by the time they get to Belgrade and that the applications will be after 24 hours, especially if they want to wait until the Holy Trifun early in the morning, etc., that there is a priest, that they are to be cut, that this is traditionally processed, etc., they must choose a place for this public gathering. So the police must have the right to be in a place that's allowed, it can't be on private property. The police have to say -- sorry, gentlemen, we know that you've been damaged, that someone's got all the rights to your account, that you haven't got any rights in that direction, that some villager from Vrakar has got five times as much as you have, and that you're challenged to get it five times as much, we understand your dissatisfaction, you can come 24 hours later, but you can't get there in front of the Zivkovic winery, I'm talking about winery, there's no replica, because it doesn't produce wine, there's no honor there. When someone says his wines were served, they are imported, by the way, if they want to protest the Empress workers because their director, my colleague, farmer, in an unknown direction alienated 138 thousand bottles of wine, Mr. Minister, you are the police minister, without an emissary, documentation, etc. Some company for marketing at the convention, although it has no warehouse at all, and if they are not satisfied with this information that there are 137,000 bottles of wine, import wine, worth 89 million dinars, if they want to force the Minister of Police to react, the prosecution, they can gather after 24 hours, because they come from Tristenik, from Kruševec, from Župa, from Fruska Gora, from Iriga and the police have to make sure that these associations in the evening when they hold meetings can bring their members in 24 hours, but to warn them – not before that winery, because it is not a public place to gather. Speaking of the Law of Public Gathering, the most common are those who can't get 20 people together. I have to warn them - you can't make a party out of three members. You can't make three haystacks. It can't be a lake the size of three drops. You can't make a party three members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47574	Thank you. National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Goran Ćirić, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic and Vesna Marjanovic submitted to the 7th amendment. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47575	Mr. Minister, we are joining all MPs of the opposition today who have requested that this member be deleted as such. Namely, you were young, and I suppose at least someone from the police at the time worked at the police station, but this year it will be 20 years from the Together Coalition. At the time in the Serbian Parliament, there were some MPs who entertained the people and spoke various things, sang, etc. and persuaded the leader then that they had a law by which the gathering was from 7 to 23 hours. What happened then? Then there was a small coalition, which they insulted back then, and now that they insult the MPs of the opposition here the representatives of the regime, and gathered huge crowds of peoples who were on the terraces for days, day and night. I believe one of the officers was working at the time, that was at the end of 1996, which means it's going to be 20 full years. So the law was yet to be broken, the 1992 law. With the same applause that we're hearing here today, it's only cancer, Bija, but we have some others, the atmosphere is similar, you're very pleased, you're able to convince us that now they can do it at night, and we couldn't at night, we could only do it until 23, and now they'll be able to do it by 24. Another thing about this article, which leads to senselessness, is the discretionary rights of one who approves or does not approve of the assembly. If you say - by rule 6 to 24, it doesn't have to be. You're saying the MUP doesn't approve, of course, of course it does, and in law, the MUP forbids, so it narrows the possibilities, which is even worse. That's why I think this member of the law needs to change, because he's inapplicable too, unless you think you're sending the Police Act to Gendarmere, which you have the right to do, so you're breaking up the gatherings that are possible after 24 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47576	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47577	I talked, there's a colleague who worked at that time who remembers barking at them on the streets, watering them cold, throwing stones, etc. They remember those things. Then the buildings were on fire, and they remember those times well.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47578	Please, Mr. Zivkovic, don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47579	If we're talking about that time, then let's hear what the cops say, even though it was a long time ago. Our job is to look into the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47580	Please, Mr. Zivkovic, don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47581	There are people who can't, who are attached to the mirror and you can't, it's not worth it, there's nothing in the future. No plan, no program, no nothing. But, well, that's legitimate, too. Everyone has the right to state what he thinks, what he has to offer, and the citizens will plead. As for any gatherings, we're proud that today, when the biggest protests and the greatest gatherings and everything we have, you have a minimum number of cops on the street. Today, the government has no need to protect the gendarmes, no need to protect itself by the police, no need to protect itself by force. Simply, when you have a power that is ready to call elections at any moment and check the trust that the citizens have, but also that opposition, we will have a chance to see who the people they citizens believe in, how many, and who the people that citizens don't trust. We'll all have a chance to measure ourselves politically in the election. That's when the citizens say if they think we deserve trust. At that time, no minister, no MP, says citizens, and they decide whether someone deserves to represent them, in which body, with what strength and whether what they did until then was legitimate or not. But as far as this government is concerned, we're not going to be cramped, with 6% like some in Vojvodina, we're going to hold onto the chair, nor are we going to think of it. The president of the SNS and these governments said that with 36% he would not be Prime Minister, while some would be with 6% and they wouldn't mind. Because politics isn't math. Politics is what you have to do for citizens, politics is what you have to feel. Either you can, or you can't. Those who would only mathematically add percentages and thus build politics, I'm not sure they can bring much to the citizens of Serbia, but probably can.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47582	I thank you, Mr. Minister. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47583	This is about gathering, when it's not allowed, but it's also about the previous member. So these two members, Minister Stefanovic, are in a relationship. The man who just spoke to me is a cop. So, one of those 500 cops, as you say, will be out of a job. They need to secure these gatherings, Mr. Stefanovic. But I ask you something else, Mr Stefanovic -- how do you think the interior ministry with 500 fewer policemen increases the security of Serbian citizens, when already Serbian citizens feel insecure? I was in Subotic the other day, they can't keep any ham, they can't keep corn, they don't report a bike. It's funny for some Serbian Progressive Party MPs. Their lives are in danger...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47584	Mr. Veselinović, now is not the time to discuss events from your travels. Please explain your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47585	This is an event from the lives of Serbian citizens, Mr. Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47586	But the way you're making a joke out of the People's Assembly and the people's life problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47587	So, Mr. Stefanovic, here's about this member, tell me that with 500 police officers less, how much do you say, will give more security, when Serbia's citizens are already insecure? Their property, their belongings, their personal security, their lives and everything else are in danger. How about less cops, Mr. Stefanovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47588	The word has a minister. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47589	Of course this had nothing to do with the text of the amendment, but if we are already in the spirit of this debate, I am a minister who takes his job very seriously. I've visited a large number of police stations and police departments and we've also dealt with what, to say, sometimes a trivial thing is done, but for the citizens it's important, and that's, say, a petty theft of bikes and everything else. I've talked to the citizens, too. Let's say I was in Panchev, it was an indirect visit where we talked seriously about this issue, because this is how the police administration and Mr. Popovac solved, say, one big theft, where we found 70-80 stolen bikes with two some criminal groups that did it and returned it to the citizens. You have statistics that are inexorable. At a time when you were in power, those bikes were being stolen a lot more, crimes against life and bodies were much more, there was a lot more. It's not always the number of cops. First of all, those people who work in the police don't all work in the same jobs and not all work in the same quality and not all have the same morals. The way some have acted, God never let you ever watch over us again. You know that, too. The only good thing is that you accepted and you reduced these numbers, so we came from 1500 to 500. We'll see, of course, how it'll all end up, but what I'm showing you is that the results are like that, that we are now far less endangered than we were before, and that's what Serbian citizens feel. I go to the stands where I talk to hundreds of citizens in certain cities, talk about their safety, and they say clearly and openly. I'm not saying the situation is ideal, but I'm telling you it's better than it was. I want us to have cops, but those cops who don't sit with drug dealers and deal with them are security policies, they're talking about serious cops.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47590	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47591	Thank you, Chairman. I'm glad the traveller proposed the amendment traveled to Saturday. I don't know how much this has to do with the work of the National Assembly. I hope it had a good time in Subotica. I'm not sure the citizens of Subotica were thrilled by his arrival, but that's not the most significant thing for this amendment. So, when it comes to the amendment to Article 8, I suggest that we refuse, of course, for essential, but also technical reasons. Why the essentials? I don't think anyone in their right mind can accept the expropriation of article 8, which precisely regulates the restriction of freedom of assembly, but there is one significant technical moment, which is -- the explanation of this amendment is final, and I apologize for saying it, illiterately. I'll just read some pieces. He says: “A number of discretionary judgment options are being created. ” Here, I ask anyone in this room to tell me what a discreet assessment means, which creates the basis for the organizer's fear for their "financial existence". Therefore, this explanation of the amendment promoter cannot be compared, i.e. it is not at the level of the fourth grade of the primary school. For all these reasons, I suggest we refuse this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47592	Thank you. The word is Dr. Vesna Rakonjac. Here you go, Mrs. Rakonjac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47593	Of course, the amendment should be rejected. It's a good thing Mr. previous speaker from the opposition party said he was in Subotica. Well, it's in Vojvodina, you've been in power for 20 years now, and it's a shame that you've made such a mess out of one crop and rich in our territory of Serbia that people now have to reach both for petty and large thefts to feed. It's your mirror, and thank you for saying that you visited Saturday, that we know which location it is. Serbian citizens are completely safe, have confidence in their police, so I believe they have confidence in their police in Subotica too. Whether they have the leadership and Bojan Pajtic, we will see it in the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47594	Thank you. Here you go, replica, MP Dragan Sutanovac, authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Here you go. A Vesna Rakonjac, from the place: Why? Bojan Pitiæ has been mentioned. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47595	I don't know how you came to mention...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47596	I apologize, Mr. Sutanovac, because Mrs. Rakonjac is not clear. You mentioned DS. Mr. Sutanovac is an authorised representative of the DS. You mentioned the party president.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47597	By name and by name you mentioned Bojan Pajtic, who was neither present nor in charge of internal affairs ever. So, I understand that anger, that hatred you've been radiating because for 12 or 16 years you've been trying to take over the leadership of the Vojvodina, which didn't work out for you, and it's not going to work out for you, but I also don't understand why, when you're talking about an amendment that has nothing to do with the Ukrainian government, or the Prime Minister of the Province, or the Prime Minister of the Province, you're talking about the Prime Minister of the Province, the government that made the biggest step, and it's exactly for Vojvodina. The Vojvodina has become both European Commission and Forbes... Here you go. I don't know now if they're torturing, whether I'm answering them, or if they're yelling at them. Would you be kind enough to get them in line?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47598	Go ahead, Mr. Sutanovac. Please, Mr. Sutanovac, you are not expected to have such qualifications, such words to your colleagues.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47599	What qualifications?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47600	That's exactly what you said.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47601	Are you listening to your colleagues?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47602	That's your colleagues, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47603	No, your party colleagues.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47604	Here in the National Assembly, all 250 of us are colleagues. If you're splitting up to yours, ours, theirs, I think you have a problem, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47605	I've told you, my colleague, I've been scared more than once when you raise your voice and don't yell at me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47606	I'm yelling at you?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47607	Well, now you're yelling. I know your past, I know how dangerous you are...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47608	Here, I beg you, Mr. Sutanovac, whenever you want to offend someone, insult me, but don't insult your colleagues.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47609	Here, yes, I'm not insulting anyone, I just want to say that Vojvodina, you took half a minute, under the leadership of Bojan Pajtic, has become one of the best regions in all of Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47610	Time. Thank you. You took my time anyway. Don't insult your colleagues, you'll have all the time in the world. Thank you. We're done with this article. (Vesna Rakonjac, from town: Replica. You have no right to a replica. You didn't mention it. (The Vesna Rakonjac, from the place: He mentioned me personally. ) (Dragan Šutanovac, from the place: No one was mentioned. I don't even know your name. ) Mrs Rakonjac, that qualification that MP Dragan Sutanovac said, I will not think of any MP and I will not give a replica on that basis. Thank you. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Vesna Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Goran Ćirić, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic and Vesna Marjanovic submitted to the 8th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Ivan Karic and the magistrate Dr Blažja Bradic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Prof. Janko Veselinović submitted to the 9th Amendment. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47611	Dear Minister Stefanovic, article 9, says – The affairs of protecting the security of people and property, the security of the Republic of Serbia, the protection of public health, morals, the protection of rights and other tasks related to the maintenance of the gathering are carried out by the Ministry of the Interior and other competent authorities. So, your ministry, along with the authorities of local self-government. I asked you -- how about a smaller number of cops? I was well accepted in Subotica, two new councilmen approached the Turnover Movement just over the past month in Subotica. It's proof of trust in the Turnover Movement. But I ask you -- do Serbian citizens even trust the police? Well, they, Mr. Stefanovic, steal bikes more on the application. Even some police stations say - we don't get bike theft applications. Do you know that, Mr. Stefanovic? So, they don't take any charges at all. It's normal to steal your bike, ham, etc. Did you, for example, put in the procedure a memo in which it says, sent to one MP – just beware, by the anger they feel, some are ready for anything, to take you down, both me and you? Ministerial Mihajlovic addressed one MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47612	Member of the Commission Special provisions, the name above Article 9 and Article 9 shall be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47613	So, did you do anything about it, Mr. Stefanovic? How's security?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47614	Don't pretend you don't hear it when you hear it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47615	I hear it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47616	Now, where did you see Minister Mihajlovic in the name above article 9 and Article 9 being deleted?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47617	He says the Home Office is taking care of that, that and that. Yeah. Because Serbian citizens don't trust this law. So, please, Mr. Minister, answer - did you put in the procedure an examination of the quote from this SMS message?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47618	Tuesdays and Thursdays. I'll have the minister answer the question, but on Tuesdays and Thursdays when we begin the session. Remember that question and you'll ask it. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47619	We have to learn the laws. The law says that this type of qualification can also be done by the prosecution. So you have to learn that. As far as the interior ministry is concerned, it was never a problem to examine anything and of course it's not true that citizens can't report theft and bicycles and anything like that. What's good, what citizens today can report stealing bicycles, but they don't report stealing money from disabled children, they don't report kidnapping at the highest level, they don't report it because it's not there. There's no job theft, no factory theft, so they cut them into old iron and sell why, that's not happening today. Did they steal any bikes? Unfortunately, it's stolen. But today, at every police station, you can report it, as you've heard us do, solve those things that aren't of the most social danger, but we're also solving it and we're showing that the police aren't just here to solve the biggest cases, but every case of theft is our part in society. As for Serbian police in all parts of Serbia and northern Serbia and central Serbia, in all parts of Serbia, our police will try to fulfill their role in the law. We have every year of OSCE research, this research is presented at the beginning of the year, if they are in January, whether in February, it depends on the OSCE. We'll see what trust our police have in them. What did the citizens say? In any case, does it increase or decrease we'll see in the next period, what do the citizens think of the state, what do they think of the authorities, they'll say in the elections? In these elections, we'll see how much each of us is worth and it's not math whether we have a councilman more or less, it's the support of the people. If you have it, you have the right to rule, if you don't have it, you don't have to keep the chairs at all costs.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47620	Thank you. Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic, ZZS, ZS and SDS submitted together to the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th Amendment in the same text was submitted by the MP Aida Ćorović and together by Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47621	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we have submitted an amendment to Article 11. Since we are in the contents of this article, we have recognised in certain parts a restrictive approach to defining public gathering rules. Minister Stefanovic, when we recognize a restrictive approach to defining public gathering rules, then it is a signal to me that we are dealing with one authoritarian authority. I believe, gentlemen, that here we should provide conditions for the development of a modern, democratic state and society. We responded to points 1 and 3, i.e. points 1 and 3. In point 1, the organizer of the gathering should also provide a regular service to ensure the safety of participants when they arrive and leave. Well, that's not completely defined. Where they come from, because he follows all of them wherever they come from, respected gentlemen or, for example, in point 3 of the gathering organizer should take care to enable, uninterrupted passing of ambulances, which is fine, police which is fine, fire trucks which is fine, but also vehicles of public traffic. Well, I participated in protests in the late '90s, as a student, against stealing in elections, for example, against major injustices, it was not possible to ensure public transport functioning, and the idea was to block public transport. We now put obstacles here and in the fight against injustice and theft in elections, for example, honored gentlemen. I'm not up for it. I'm here to create conditions for democracy. As for the wine, respected gentlemen, which were mentioned here, Minister Stefanovic certainly knows, when the Prime Minister elected members of the government in April 2014, he honored all the guests in the hall of the National Assembly of Wines from the house "Vina "Zivkovića" and the following varieties, respected gentlemen, a necklace, an order and passion, the president can testify about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47622	About passion? I didn't listen to everything, I just heard this about passion. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Do you want me to repeat in two minutes? No, don't... The word has Minister Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47623	Well, in this first part, we certainly believe that it is important to organize a directorial service that must have someone who is an organizer, they must have some responsibility for the arrival and departure of their participants, especially when it is organized transport and everyone else. So we think it's perfectly normal. As for this second part, there was a dilemma about public transport and I now in the conversation with my colleagues, we have a situation that, for example, is characteristic of Belgrade, which is a tram traffic, because tram traffic cannot be rerouted. You can organize the rerouting of bus traffic and it's always done, but the problem is if you stop the tram it pulls the whole line and all the trams on those lines all the numbers, all stop. It's just that there's only a dilemma about whether to ask these people to provide only passage through tram tracks to get through and therefore there's no damage to the special, of course and trolleybus traffic according to the network, the bus can always be rerouted, and whenever the larger gatherings are organised, always the City and Traffic Police Department is doing a rerouting, only in that sense. I think this law is otherwise such, the spirit of this law is such that we need an agreement. So a deal is needed, because if there is no agreement there will be no measure that the law provides for assistance. If there's a deal, it won't bother anyone. I understand, of course, and as someone who has participated in the organization of a number of gatherings against thieving, stealing, corruption and everything else, I realize that when a larger number of people come together, it's impossible to pass through that crowd of people public transport. That's just impossible. Nor will these people stand apart, so they keep coming in and out, that's impossible. Now I'm thinking about how we can make sure we don't stop traffic again, like this tramway, without in any way providing a criminal measure for someone who's actually done their job.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47624	Thank you. Parliamentarians Natasa Vukkovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Goran Ćirić, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic and Vesna Marjanovic submitted to the 11th amendment. Here you go, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47625	Mr. Minister, before I explain the amendment to agree with you that you are fortunate that in the last four years there is no need for the police to react against people who are publicly gathering for only one reason why there is no one among these people who organizes a demolition demonstration like that was the case, let's say, in 2008 or earlier. You won't convince me that it was the police who caused the riots in the streets, not the ones who came. We've given the amendment to Article 11. For two reasons. The first thing that is predicted here is that the organizer is required to ensure safe arrival and departure from the rally. What does safe coming and leaving together mean? I'd like you to explain that to me. If someone comes to a meeting in Subotica from Vranja, what the organizer needs to do to make it safe or when he comes back, what the organizer can do to make it safe. Given that it is more than obvious that you have not consulted anyone from the Ministry of Defence, or the Serbian Army, in the making of this member. How is it possible for you not to predict, if you are already predicting the passage of public transport, which means taxi drivers, so if there is a taxi car coming in front of the Assembly, we as organizers have to enable the passage of the taxi to the vehicle, and there is no sign of the passage to military vehicles. So, you have a situation where you said that passing vehicles to ambulances, police, fire trucks and public transport vehicles. Where were your armies taking you? Since the military isn't involved in this law, then it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter. Also, if I'm not mistaken, the prime minister is being provided by members of the army. How are they gonna get through? Otherwise, I think it's inadmissible that some public traffic, I totally understand you for trams, that's not true for trolleybuses, it's not a subject, but if you allow the rally, or you don't forbid it, how do you think you're organizing it. How do you think some organizer allows a few thousand people to move through a tram, a trolley bus or a bus?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47626	Thank you. The word has Minister Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47627	As for the demolition demonstrations, I suppose the authorities acted, that was how the people reacted, but you won't convince me that Ranko Panic did something that he deserved to be beaten to die of, you'll never convince me. Last time you tried to relativize it, I won't let you do it now. This man was not guilty of anything but being in a place to express a different will than the will of the government, and for this he was beaten in such a way that he died of it. It's not happening in this country, and it's happening. That's the kind of thing I hope we'll never see in the streets again, ever. As for police or military vehicles, when military vehicles need to go through some demonstrations, they will be provided by the police. The police will go ahead, behind them, secure a column, and these people will always have the opportunity to pass after the police provide that kind of rally. The police are in charge of public order and peace, except in the case of some emergency, or God forbid, war situations, then the military, has the main word in the role of defending the country, but as far as these situations are concerned, since police are certainly providing these gatherings, it will allow the passing of military vehicles. So it has absolutely nothing to do with this as far as public transport is concerned, I'm not sure we've brought the best solution, here and now we're consulting, to see what we can do in that sense, because you have both "yes" and "against". I'm not sure it's possible for a norm like this to stay and that's how we solve the situation, but the problem is that we don't have any amendments that's all we can predict. Now I have to consult whether there is a possibility, whether we still have business opportunities to accept only that kind of amendment and ask the President of the National Assembly, that maybe the committee in charge will just adopt this part, where the word "public transport" is removed, since it is still more freedom, if we allow it not to be, and then let the city services figure out how to solve it, because these meetings don't last that long, because this is how we could get to some rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47628	To a member of the 11th intervention? (Nobojsa Stefanovic, from town: Yes. Did I understand correctly, to this member, Minister? (Nobojsa Stefanovic, from the post: At Item 3. In accordance with Article 1(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission is to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 13(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. I can change before and after they get adopted, so we can go to the office and then the board gives a new amendment to which they'll solve this issue, so we'll do something like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47629	To make a technical correction. May I suggest?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47630	You got it. Ambassador Pavicevic, we are now going to ask you to do something.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47631	If you can, I'd like to ask you to give a technical correction to your amendment to Article 11. So, to put the fact that point 3 is changed and it's said, that part we could accept, to allow the uninterrupted passing of vehicles to the ambulances, police and fire trucks, since you submitted the amendment at 9.45 p.m., I think that's okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47632	MPs Vladimir Orlic, Dusica Stojkovic, Aleksandar Markovic and Nenad Nikolic submitted to the 11th amendment. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Dear Members of Parliament, pursuant to Articles 27 and 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, I'd like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 6:00 p.m. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović. Do you want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47633	Minister Stefanovic, I hope you will also accept some amendment to the Turnover Movement and will not discriminate on the grounds that Mr. Vukic drinks the winery "Zivkovic", or the house of the wine "Zivkovic"...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47634	Since we're not EPP, so we don't have a commercial part, I'm asking you not to advertise anyone here and not make a commercial. So, back to the amendment. I'll give you back your time even, but no commercials, please. I don't know how to sanction it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47635	President, so many wine ads, Mr. Zivkovic got his wine, he doesn't need any more commercials, so from the SNS bench. To return to the amendment to Article 12, Mr Stefanovic, so that the Association of Unions retired with 300,000 of its members, members, FERP, the only association of pensioners, members of the FERP of the European Association of Pensioners and Old Persons, no matter how some of the PUPS managed to challenge that mass, had submitted an amendment, i.e. they believe that the application of five days too long to report meetings in some cases. That's what some MPs were talking about. You have a simple situation, not just a spontaneous gathering, Minister Stefanovic, but simply when you have to react to some events when it's five days late. Let's just say there may be some more cuts in pensions, probably wages, since the budget is not being charged because you don't want to tax tycoons, but you're just trying on the back of the poorest to fill the budget, there may also be needs for such protests. Therefore, it would be important, Minister Stefanovic, that first of all, this law is missing and it cannot pass as such, but that you have also taken care of these deadlines, of the meeting, or of the time set for the start of the gathering, and in that sense I believe, when the new government is, since you are practically the former government, the new law should take care of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47636	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47637	First of all, this is the government, which has spared the poorest and as far as pensioners are concerned, 61% of those pensioners with the lowest incomes, have not been touched by any income for the dinar, only increased, by the latest increase in pensions. As the Prime Minister announced, if our indicators are this good, as I expect them to continue in January, we will have another increase in pensions and salaries, I don't know how much, but we will certainly have an increase this year, but this time on real grounds, so people know they will continue to receive them, not by fearing whether they will be or not next month. The tycoons, while you ruled this country, were actually the true masters of this country. They were the ones who made all the regulations, they were the ones who were the bosses, and it was the citizens who took the other part on their backs. So, as the citizens became poorer, they became richer. Now I see something's going on tycoons, they're running some protests, they're paying the media, they're affecting people having, they're trying to create such an atmosphere in public. Why? They lost their privileges. They don't have any more money. As for the gathering, the application is submitted for five days for people to have time to do their job, can't organise a security assessment in a day or two, can't provide enough people who need to come to provide the meeting, can't provide adequate judicial protection. You have to leave enough time to make a first-degree, second-degree, judicial protection decision in some procedure, how do you think we do it in five days, or think we're not doing business, so we're writing security assessments in an hour, allowing people to approve, or ban meetings within two hours, so that's impossible. There are deadlines prescribed by this law that protect citizens. Secondly, anyone well-planned, if it's not a spontaneous gathering, of course, anyone who plans well has quite enough time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47638	Thank you. The word is Mira Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47639	Thank you, esteemed chairman. I would just like to point out that we from the PUPS parliamentary group don't bother to challenge union registration, we just wanted for the truth to say that there are few, whether it's five, ten, and fifteen, in any case it's far from a thousand. I'm not talking about the hundreds of thousands that were mentioned here, we just wanted to draw attention that they are in no way the representatives and protectors of the pensioners. So, they've come up now, they've got their own story, they're very few, nobody's slow about it, this is democracy, but for the sake of truth, you need to know that it's known who's been dealing with pensioners the most honest, it's also known that pensioners are a population that doesn't make riots, that they don't go out into the streets, they don't block traffic, so don't take them where they're not supposed to be.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47640	The word has Stefan Miladinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47641	Thank you, President. I am reporting on the amendment of my colleague Janko Veselinovic, another in a series of amendments – it is deleted, which we are discussing today. In fact, during a public debate, the MUP accepted a proposal by representative trade unions to cut the application deadline from eight to five days. I think that's the right thing to do. What I want to point out today, as a conclusion, is that although I deeply believe that my colleague Veselinović is an experienced lawyer and a valuable MP, we simply get the impression that these amendments are nothing more than a competition with counterpart Pavicevic, who is actually the most numerous when it comes to proposing amendments in parliament and I believe that until the end of the term, he is inaccessible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47642	Parliamentarians Natasa Vukkovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Goran Ćirić, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic and Vesna Marjanovic submitted to the 12th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov and Vesna Martinovic. The word has been given by MP Dejan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47643	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, I will continue only to discuss this subject, with myself submitting the amendment not to be deleted, but rather to define the conditions under which the assembly can be approved before. Namely, for your citizens' sake, you have defined a member to register five days earlier. With the first and second members, I don't have any problem, they're well-defined, and I would absolutely accept it. The third position of this member, which defines the meeting to be registered five days before maintenance, would change that he can, under exceptional conditions, with a good explanation, report 48 hours earlier. So my amendment has been very precisely defined. I will read it – for particularly justified reasons, the application is allowed no later than 48 hours before the start of the public meeting. So -- under particularly justified reasons. I think, Minister, in addition to taking care of security, I understand from that angle that five days for the police is enough to organize the safety of a single set. However, the law must also take care of the effects of a gathering and of those who organize the gathering. Well, if we organize something in five days, what kind of rally, can it have the same effects when it's organized in five days or two days? There are certain reasons why the meeting should be organised immediately, in order to have some effects. When a certain group of people want to react to certain things and they have to organize a meeting in two days to have some effect. It's a public gathering and it's freedom of public gathering. We don't even give, or I give this amendment, the full right to go back to the old ones under all conditions and say, in 48 hours, we can report the set, but we define very precisely that it is possible for particularly certain reasons. Please consider this and adopt the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47644	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47645	We, under the current law, have an eight-day period. We're cutting it down to five days now. What's the problem? Here, for example, you report a set 48 hours earlier and within 24 hours you are contacted by the authority of the MUP and said – no conditions have been obtained, we prohibit you from meeting. You're complaining in the next few hours, you're complaining to the court, and the court doesn't have 48 hours, say, to bring you in. So, you're already 24 hours after the deadline you wanted, you have the opportunity to be approved by the court. So you already have the inability to exercise your legal right, plus what is the first degree of internal affairs organ, the second degree is minister and third degree court. So, it goes realistically three days until you get answers to your questions, which means you haven't already protected your team's applicant together, and he, man, can come in because of judicial protection, to get into a situation to report the rally 48 hours earlier, but not to get an answer in those 48 hours, that he can't keep the rally together. Secondly, indeed, I ask people to understand. If that's a bigger set, you have to provide enough police forces to secure that rally. These police forces aren't always, for example, in Belgrade, if it's expensive in Belgrade. The transport of these people, their engagement plans, everything else. Secondly, you need to organise public order and peace, reroute traffic, all of it, and of course a security assessment that must last at least 24 hours in some exceptional cases. So, you need time to collect from the BIA, from the criminal police, the Belgrade Police Department, military services, all the information that indicates whether there is a security disturbance, terrorist acts and everything else. So, it's complex matter, and no matter what I understand your good intentions, it's impossible.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47646	Thank you. (Dejan Nikolic, from the post: Does he have the right to the amendment? You don't have any more time. Time was spent and a group was authorized. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Janko Veselinović. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47647	The essence of this amendment is that Article 13 in point 3: “other gatherings that are... “ It means, ” he says, “state celebrations and jubilee, and other gatherings organized by state authorities. ” We ask that the section be deleted: “and other gatherings organised by the state authorities, ” because this again gives the possibility of arbitration. A state body can organize anything. We had a meeting in 2008 called "Kosovo is Serbia". It has been combined with the biggest violence on the streets of Belgrade in the past 10 years, and has been organised by state authorities. They supported almost everyone. But we have the consequences of this meeting today. She was a human victim. There have been destruction of buildings in Belgrade, diplomatic and foreign-political problems still stand today. Therefore, there is no need not to place it, i.e. the state authorities, to obtain that protection from the obligation to report meetings. It will not, of course, slow down the maintenance of these gatherings, to gather, to complicate, in any way to interfere with the maintenance of these gatherings. Only these gatherings, if declared, will enter the law, or their maintenance will be by law, and will know who is responsible for what, as is known in all other assemblies, so that it is nothing to do with the current authority or what has to do with some fission over detail. No, I think this is a very important, essential thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47648	Thank you. The 13th amendment was submitted by MP Aida Corovic. Members of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic-SDS, the ZZS, the ZS, submitted together to the 13th amendment. The word is by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47649	Thank you. Article 13 regulates anyone who doesn't have to report a meeting. We have intervened with the amendment to this article in order to specify, in particular points 3 in point 1. According to the draft law, no state body has the obligation to report a public gathering that has the character of a state ceremony, jubilee or other gathering. The problem with this solution is that the list of state authorities is very long, and besides, it is not clear what is meant by other gatherings. As a result, we believe that the exemption from the obligation should apply only to the highest state bodies, and other gatherings should be related to the competence of the national authorities. In addition, the amendment also intervenes at point 4 of the same position, predicting that under spontaneous, peaceful gatherings, which represent a reaction to an event, may also be considered gatherings during the event, not only after the event, as provided for in the draft law. It could be in practice, for example. A gathering of more than 20 people in a particular place to monitor a particular sporting event, because sporting events take a certain period of time, during which a gathering can take place, rather than waiting for it to end. The amendment was rejected by reason that the proposal set out in the draft law covers all the bodies that we have listed in the amendment. Well, they are covered, in that is the problem, which is the list given in the bill much longer than the one we foresee in the amendment. We predict that she's narrowing down.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47650	Thank you. The 13th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vladimir Orlic, Dusica Stojkovic, Aleksandar Markovic and Nenad Nikolic. National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Goran Ćirić, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic and Vesna Marjanovic submitted to the 13th amendment. National MPs of the Boris Tadic-SDS group, the ZZS, together submitted an amendment proposing that a new member of the 13a be added after Article 13. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47651	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, we have suggested that Article 13a, which would read: "A peaceful gathering without registration is allowed in Belgrade in Nikola Pasic Square", is the first position. The second position: “The organizer of the meeting shall inform the Ministry of the Interior, the organisational unit responsible for the meeting place no later than 24 hours after the meeting time. ” We have put up with this for the simple reason that we believe that the tradition of a union gathering at the Nikola Pasic Square in Belgrade is something that takes place and that it needs to be a place where it can be free, without registration, only with prior notice, to organise a peaceful gathering of union activists, so I hope you will accept this, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47652	National MPs Gordana Comic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandar Jerkov and Vesna Martinovic together submitted an amendment proposing that a new article 13a be added after Article 13. Member of the 14th Amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović. Dejan Nikolic, have you submitted the amendment? Yeah. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47653	Dear Minister, my amendment does not differ significantly from a colleague who has just spoken about this amendment, by technically being defined differently to add a new Article 13a. I am of the opinion that the capital, which is the centre of the gathering, because over 90% of all peaceful public gatherings are in Belgrade, should have a certain place where it is possible to organise a gathering, underline, a peaceful set without additional bureaucracy, without reporting, and I think it is a good place for the Square of Nikola Pasic, because of its geostrategic position. In fact, whoever organizes a meeting there doesn't count on a large number, a mass gathering of, say, tens of thousands of people. So it's a gathering with a smaller number of people, I underline, a peaceful set, and it's a good place because of the geostrategic position, because of the symbolism that the capital should simply have a certain space where such gatherings can be held. That's why we submitted this amendment. Once again, we think Nikola Pasic Square is a good place to hold such gatherings and I think you should consider adopting this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47654	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47655	One of the reasons why the current law, or previous law, was declared unconstitutional was because it contained standards for the places in which the gathering was allowed. The Constitution, or Constitutional Court, is very clear in its saying that the law can only limit the place of gathering, in no way prescribe where the gathering is allowed. The places allowed for the gathering may, in accordance with the law, be defined by the authority of local self-government, that is to say, define places where no gathering is allowed. So the law can't treat the matter where the gathering is allowed, because if we have a free gathering, then the gathering is allowed everywhere. As far as the application is concerned. So we would bring some citizens into an unequal position. We cannot leave in Novi Sad to apply everywhere, in Belgrade does not register, in Nis, in Leskovac, in Subotica, etc. So we have to have a single law. We've got something that's exactly the same, okay? I understand your intentions, but then it would be a space for different abuses, then other than union activists would use it all, and if you don't have to apply, and you organize a set of some other kind, then they'll ask why you're not, what you are. If the police didn't react, why didn't they react? It's just that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47656	Thank you. Member of the 14th Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Goran Ćirić, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic and Vesna Marjanovic submitted to the 14th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The 14th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Ivan Karic and the magistrate Dr Blagoja Bradic. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47657	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Therefore, Article 14 speaks of the application submitted at the meeting and says: “The application from Article 12 of this Law contains, and by one: name, last name, ID number, travel documents or other identification document, etc. Under two: name, ID number, travel document or other identification document and contact phone of the meeting leader and responsible person of the director’s office. We have suggested that point 2 reads: “Name, last name, ID number, travel document or other identification document and contact of the responsible person of the director’s office as well as contact persons if the organiser has designated it. ” We have suggested that point 6 be deleted, which says: "data of interest for safe and uninterrupted maintenance of the gathering". In paragraph 3, at the end of the sentence, we added, and paragraph 3 reads: “If the application does not contain the information contained in Article 1, the competent authority shall set a period of 12 hours for the completion of the application,” and we shall add: “from the time of delivery of the notice of the required completion. The explanation is as follows: ‘Article 14(1) provides mandatory application elements, since paragraph 3 states that the competent authority will request a supplement of the application unless all submissions under Article 1 have been entered’. The "leaders" of the gathering, as you call it, shall be mandatory elements of the application only if it has been designated by the organiser. The organizer does not have to determine this person, and according to the application structure, it is concluded that the data on that person must always be entered. We also propose to delete point 6 which provides that the application must be made subject to the interest in the safe and uninterrupted maintenance of the meeting. Such a definition, we think, is too wide and it is not clear what is meant by that data, and in addition to how the organizer might know what data is of interest to the safe and uninterrupted maintenance of the gathering. Since this provision is unclear and subject to broad interpretation, we believe that this could open up possible abuses and lead to a ban on gathering under the password...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47658	Time, colleague Bradich.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47659	... that the application does not contain all the necessary information or that it is not adequately filled.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47660	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (Blagoje Bradić, from the place: Yes. Here you go. (Blagoje Bradić, from the place: Is my time running out? You've run out of time and we've extended it. The People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Goran Ćirić, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic and Vesna Marjanovic submitted to the 15th amendment. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47661	Article 15 defines several things, but to which we have put the amendment, namely the amendment: “If the competent authority determines the existence of the reasons set out in Article 8 of this Act,” and Article 8 of this Law defines the restriction of freedom of assembly, or where the gathering is not allowed, “a solution is made which does not allow the maintenance of the gathering. ” We put the amendment, I don't know why it was rejected, which says: “A reasoned solution is being made. ” I don't see how anyone in the MUP will make a solution to anything if there's no explanation. As far as I know, and I believe that even now, the solution to anything is made with a certain explanation, and I think that as such, it is necessary to do so in this situation and that citizens who have applied for a peaceful assembly, who have received a negative attitude, means a ban, get an explanation, which is why they do so, not that they themselves are wandering in the dark, thinking about what is going on and why they can't get together. I think this thing is quite prosaistic, but it represents a relationship of the MUP to citizens who want to get together and who can, for example, come a foreign statesman that day can't get together and be told about it and you can't do that. This is how one freedom is given, given discretionary rights, without explanation. I know that's how they like it in the police department, but trust me, it's not good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47662	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47663	But by law, every solution has two components. It's a saying and an explanation. It has to be legal. It doesn't matter which organ makes the solution. The solution has it as an integral part. There's no need to write it here. Of course, there is no solution in which there is no explanation. You don't have that kind of solution. A solution and you have a saying solution and a signature. It doesn't exist. No state body can issue it under the law. The explanation is an integral part of the solution. It's got to have him. (Dear Sutanovac, from the city: under what law? ) Under the General Administrative Procedure Act, it is simple.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47664	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47665	Dear ladies and gentlemen, it is commendable when the minister during the debate appreciates the strength of the argument and decides to accept an amendment, which he previously claimed could not be accepted and I think so despite the will of most MPs. It is important for me here to say, it will be a great pleasure for them when I attend the voting day here, that one scene, that the MPs of the Serbian Progressive Party, all vote in favour of the amendment to Article 11, which we have submitted, with this technical correction, Minister Stefanovic. It is worth it out of gratitude to fellow Members, MP Stefani Miladanovic, who despite her acting as the position of the government, and I, from the position of the opposition, respected here a champion spirit of our opposition MPs and congratulated on the number of amendments submitted and accepted, Mr Nejo Jovanovic. I now have a proposal for Mr Stefanovic to accept our amendment to Article 15. It concerns one precision about reporting a gathering, or solution not to allow an assembly. Therefore, in Article 15, paragraph 2, reads – that the time limit for adopting the solution set out in Article 1 is not to be allowed, must be adopted at the latest 96 hours before the reported time for the start of the meeting, and we believe that it would be better and more precise, I see that Mrs Ljubicic also approves here, that the next formulation would best be to stand – the deadline for delivery to the organiser of the solution from Article 1 of the Article, is no later than 96 hours, before the time to start the meeting. I think that would be one solution that no one here could vote against either in voting day or from your associates here. Thank you, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47666	The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47667	It would be a good thing if there were not for the witty spirit of our people, and then the organizer disappears, and you can no longer find him anywhere, not at any cost at all, and he says: I have not received any solution, nothing has been handed to me, and the man is gone, and there is no possibility. That would make us a little bit of a rule of law. I am pleased that you have noticed that there is a huge democratic spirit of this government, which allows and accepts amendments of MPs acting from the position of the opposition and such a kind of action accepted by the majority, which can support it. It wasn't like that before. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47668	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47669	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, of course, and I will join the opposition's congratulations, which finally understands the quality of the ruling majority and its amendments. This is a major progress in relation to what has been so far, and indeed the opposition has one educational dimension of work to be respected in any case, especially through the action of the respected counterpart Pavicevic. However, what concerns his amendment cannot be accepted, at least when he observes the set purely legally. None of the only procedural laws, including this part of the law that we are discussing, which is procedurally-legal, can contain a deadline for delivery, given that delivery in all procedural laws and in the Code of Criminal Procedure and on the Law on Prosecution and all other procedural laws, is the most problematic part of the procedural institutes, i.e. the application of procedural institutes. Within 96 hours, something was delivered to someone was an illusion. The illusion not only because of what Minister Stefanovic said, but because there is a mandatory norm where we do not have the one to whom something is delivered, it points out on the ad board, must stand on the ad board for eight days. The question is, what time is it? So this 96-hour deadline is going to be exceeded anyway. Therefore, given that the party to which the esteemed counterpart Pavicevic belongs has excellent legal advisers, it was necessary to ask a little question, ask around, and then propose an amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47670	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The 15th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Ivan Karic and Mr. Blagoja Bradic. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47671	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Therefore, Article 15 speaks of a situation where a request to hold a meeting is rejected and he says – if the competent authority determines the existence of the reasons set out in Article 8, and Article 8 speaks when the gathering is not allowed, it shall adopt a solution that does not allow the gathering to be held. The deadline for the adoption of a solution referred to in Article 1 shall be at the latest 96 hours before the time for the start of the meeting has been declared. An appeal shall be granted against this solution under Article 1. The appeal does not delay the execution of the solution. We've suggested that instead of 96 hours it's written 24 hours since the application. The application shall be submitted legally at the latest five days or 120 hours before the meeting is held. If the possibility of deciding on the application is left at the latest 96 hours before the meeting is held, the organiser of the gathering will be in a position that 24 hours before the meeting is held he still does not know whether the gathering is allowed or not. If it adds that the deadline for appeal is 24 hours from the reception of the solution to the MUP, and the appeal does not delay the solution and that the decision-making deadline is 24 hours, it may in practice be observed that the MUP respects the appeal and allows the gathering on the day on which the gathering was scheduled, but the solution has been cancelled. So, the deadlines you set for the decision and the deadlines for the exercise of the right to protection are poorly defined, disabling any legal protection, and I ask you to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47672	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The 15th amendment was submitted by MP Aida Ćorovic. Does anyone want a word? National MP Dr Janko Veselinovic submitted to the 16th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Ivan Karic and Mr. Dr. Blažja Bradic. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47673	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, Article 16 speaks of legal protection and says – that the complaint is submitted to the Ministry of the Interior within 24 hours of the receipt of the solution by the competent authority of the position of the 1st member, is referred to the Ministry, deciding by appeal without delay, no later than 24 hours from the receipt of the complaint. An administrative dispute may be brought before the competent court against the resolution referred to in Article 2. We have proposed that this article be read – the appeal is brought to the administrative court within 24 hours of receiving the solution. The administrative court shall decide by appeal without delay, no later than 48 hours after receipt of the appeal. Article 16 The bill provides legal protection, with such a solution having a number of shortcomings in the appeal of a solution prohibiting the gathering. So, which restricts freedom of assembly is decided by the Ministry of the Interior. In addition, given the time limit laid down previously for a solution to be lodged for 96 hours and time limits for submission and decision-making from legal protection, this may in practice mean that the decision on appeal is taken on the date on which the meeting was originally scheduled, even after that. All this is yet to be predicted that an administrative dispute can be initiated against the solution by appeal. The administrative dispute has no meaning in this situation anymore. The purpose of legal protection is to protect the organizer by means of legal means his right to gather before the meeting is scheduled. For these reasons, we propose a more efficient mechanism and we hope that you will accept our proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47674	The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47675	Under the General Administrative Procedure Act, we are obliged to have a second-degree decision. So, two-degree decision-making and you, in fact, must first appeal to the authority that made the decision, and then you have the right to appeal to the court. We can't decide. So this law cannot define, edit the work of courts, or the time in which they will decide, because it would literally destroy their independence. They have laws under which both court and court are working, and in that case he is completely independent in his independent decision-making. We have this model here that we predicted was the only legal option. We could've asked the courts to react naturally, but then it wouldn't have been in accordance with the law. I mean, this is the only possible way to ensure constitutionality and legality and protection. We have had more solutions that have been foreseen and different amendments, and so now you see how much, if you insist or public debate on some amendments to shorten the deadline, the deadlines are shortened, the deadlines to shorten the deadlines of the application then you have special opportunities to meet everything. We've put a legal minimum and this will be, you're right, be tense, but this law that needs a deal. A deal between the police, the applicant and all the other participants, that people understand. It's in everyone's best interest, and trust the police before everyone else that every rally goes peacefully, without stress, without any twitches. That meeting is the only successful event. A rally that comes to the use of the police, the need for police to engage in conflict prevention, has failed, whoever organizes it. We have to have gatherings where there is complete public order and peace, because these are gatherings where citizens listen to the message, and they don't watch these side events, whether someone broke something, whether they were fighting, it's not a good message for the whole of our country, not for the police, or for the organizers together.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47676	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Members of the 16th Amendment were submitted to the same text by MPs Aida Ćorovic and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47677	The amendment reads that – the court responsible, it is probably the Administrative Court, no later than 48 hours, to decide. We've heard an argument that's not acceptable. Of course, it would not be a precedent if the court deadlines were precisely defined in one law, and that is possible in our constitutional and legal order. What would that do? It would contribute to the gatherings being held. Otherwise, it's an obvious idea of the promoter, which means the police are innocent of any ban on the set, but it'll be the guilty courts that will be late with their decisions, and then because of the passage of time, we'll have practical bans, illegal bans on public gatherings. This is the obvious idea of a proposed law. So someone's making an appointment, the police are banning it. He complains to the Administrative Court, and the Administrative Court sleeps for the next five days and passes the time when the meeting makes sense. In order to prevent this, and I guess that's the basic objective of this law for Serbia to be, as we heard earlier, a normal country with peaceful gatherings, it can be done by putting attitude 2. Otherwise, we will have a situation as it was this summer when there was a fantasmagorical laying of the stone foundation of "Berograda on Water". When the people of the New Party and the DS went to the Sava Wreath Police Station to report a rally, a protest rally, and then there the officer, the boss, told them that as far as he was concerned they didn't exist, that they weren't present, that they were gone. That's what was said, three MPs were in that delegation. What do we do then, gentlemen of the MUP? What if there's a situation like this? The event was held with unprecedented security measures and hundreds, hundreds, gendarmes and special forces.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47678	Time for a colleague of Zivkovic's. Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47679	So let's talk about this particular gathering, it was a direct abuse of law, direct and if a group of citizens of Belgrade reported a meeting a few days earlier, one 10 days before the meeting, a neat application of the assembly, neat... (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: It is not true. ) Only if you have some powers of predictions, sightings, etc. So it's a neat application together. That's what people thought of in time because they wanted to support what was happening. After all, it was not those who organized the counterassembly that could have had the information when the foundation stone would be laid. It could only have been someone close to the organizer. They couldn't have known, since the goal of those who organized the second gathering was to be in the same day, they certainly didn't decide when that day would be, but the organiser, the company that did it, the government. They were people who could have known when the rally would be. Only they could have had that knowledge. Absolutely. What they showed up without being able to do, someone reported a meeting at a certain time in a certain place, but you want at any cost to organize a meeting at the same time, the police didn't want to go into these political games and to make chaos, we allowed the meeting to be held, we predicted enough people not to have a conflict and both were held together. I hope we don't have to have that anymore when someone comes to and organizes first, and first reports, I'm sorry, everyone else will have to respect it. Better luck with your next extraction. You have to respect what someone thought. He remembered, reported the rally, the others could after the meeting, the next day, the day before. At that time and in that place, they won't be able to organize two of the same groups.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47680	Time, Mr. Minister. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. Based on what, Mr. Zivkovic. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: Based on the direct address of the minister. He just answered your question. Zoran Zivkovic throws. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47681	An event scheduled by the NGO "All for Belgrade" or something was announced a dozen days earlier in the media and was not reported, according to the organisers themselves. It was announced in an hour, and this meeting was, it was intended to be reported for four. Therefore, it was a visible time difference. You didn't raise 500 gendarmes and 500 other special forces for an NGO. They were released by the tram last time the treaty was signed, and then the GSB was guilty because they couldn't show their enthusiasm with a fantasy that called "Belgrade on Water". These are all the wrong things that the minister and vice president said to us, I think, the ruling party. But the worst thing the minister said was that the police didn't want to get into it. That's an excuse for a police officer who told the MPs - I don't see you, come out. No, the police were supposed to accept and ban the rally, if that's against the law. If you're right about anything, from graduation to today, then that cop should have taken that application and banned the rally immediately, not into the essence. The job of the police is to get into the essence of everything that is its legal obligation. So be careful what you say. What you said was the introduction of chaos into an important social area called internal affairs. That's not the way to think about it, let alone public speaking in this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47682	Right to replication, Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47683	Who wanted to cause chaos we saw that day, and that is what the citizens of Serbia saw well, and ultimately, they see good and citizens of Belgrade. I was born in this town and lived 40 years. I did well by that dump where the current "Belgrade on Water" was located, garbage, rats, waste, broken wagons, chaos, disaster all over 40 years. My parents watched before that. So it's a disaster. Today because it didn't bother a thousand years, it now bothers that someone took it and cleaned it up nicely, got it in order, and wants to build something on it, and now that we have finally got a way to hire 13,000 people in all of Serbia because so many construction operations will be involved, not only in Belgrade, in all of Serbia, and when we get something that will make people come to Belgrade to see and it's not a fantasy of any kind, because we had it in the first phase – it will never happen, in Serbia it will never be built, in Belgrade, no matter what disaster. When it started to build and the workers were there day, night and night under the reflectors working, well, now it's no longer good because of that or this. However, no one will stop progress in this country. Progress, however much we resist, wants Serbian citizens, wants citizens of Belgrade. As a citizen of Belgrade, I want there to be no more junkyards in Belgrade, there to be beautiful buildings, there to be parks, there to be asphalts, and it's a government job.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47684	Mr. Zivkovic... (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: He did not say what I said.) )......................................................................................................... He has no duty to answer you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: he was talking about what he was looking at for 40 years. *) He was not even obliged to answer your questions. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: He didn't owe? It was in the replica. Member of the 17th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Jankov Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Goran Ćirić, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic and Vesna Marjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP Prof. Dr. Jankov Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Dr Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47685	This article 18, entitled Prevention or Interruption of Gathering, speaks when a police officer can interrupt the gathering. This, unfortunately, has so far been done by tram vehicles and other means, we know that for the opening of works under the quotes "Beograd on water" it has been prohibited for those who do not have SNS membership cards and we know that at that time someone has made an assessment that it is a gathering, as it is said here - that the circumstances of Article 8 of this Law have occurred. It is free will, whether the president of the party or the president of the city committee, I do not know who has the right to make such a decision, but, in any case, Mr Stefanovic, this way, you allow any assembly, by your assessment, to be interrupted. The fact that citizens will object to deception, untruth and lies to build "Belgrade on water", in fact, you say that the garbage dump is being cleaned. Well, you could have cleaned up the dump without giving a foreign company what, 100 euros in founding capital, such a pay in Belgrade, the most valuable land in Belgrade. You could have taken the urban clean-up trucks and cleaned it up, cut the grass, as you know, Mr. Wolf said personally that he would take the hair to cut, like something he did in his life. So, the gathering against that you're going to declare, probably, like the collapse of the state order or something.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47686	Time, my colleague Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47687	You can always give that grade, Mr. Stefanovic, you, not yourself...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47688	The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47689	Of course, these are all complete untruths and there is no arbitration here, but as the election term approaches, and it has to be somewhere in the spring, growing and a degree of anxiety. I understand that. There are people who will be able to see the National Assembly only in that free day for a visit to the National Assembly, when it is visited, and they are used to certain privileges, to good wages, and to everything else, and then that anxiety increases. However, what does a member of the law we are talking about say? He says he's having public gatherings, as said in Article 8. – gathering is not allowed when there is a threat to the security of people and property, public health, morality, the rights of others and the security of the Republic of Serbia, when the objectives of the gathering are aimed at calling for and encouraging armed conflict or the use of violence, at violating human and minority freedoms and rights, i.e. to challenge or encourage racial, national, religious and other imbalances, hate and intolerance, when the threat of violence, destruction of property or other forms of public order and peace in greater scope. So, the police are normally obliged to do that. You don't think it's normal to see an assembly where someone calls for violence, to bring down the state, to break windows, to burn flags, to beat people up, to think differently, and to have the police stand by and observe. Of course he won't stand and watch. As for Mr. Wolf, he's done a lot of things in his life. I'll tell you what he didn't do -- he didn't steal and he didn't steal, he didn't become a billionaire during his government, he didn't kidnap from disabled children, he didn't take this country for himself, he tried to work every day to make this country and its citizens better. Now, that's what he was doing, and what will the citizens say about it we'll see in the election.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47690	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47691	Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, it is easy to write, technically write such an amendment, which reads - is deleted, the name above Article 18 and Article 18 is deleted, I do not know how many times and repeat, to copy an explanation which, of course, a lot of mistakes, we have seen, but what is difficult, it is hard to find the right explanation to defend such a one, I will allow myself to say, a senseless amendment. I always admire both the creativity and the inspiration expressed by the promoter of this amendment when he tries to defend something that is indefensible, to convince us why we would delete Article 18 that regulates the prevention or interruption of gathering, where he says, I would not read the whole article now, but it is linked to Article 8 which also regulates the restriction of freedom of assembly. Then I wonder how it's even possible to get into this situation. The answer to this question lies in Article 3, in the first sentence that says – gathering within the meaning of this law is considered a gathering of more than 20 people to express, achieve and promote state, political, social, national beliefs and objectives. This is the answer to the question why he wants to delete these members, because he can never collect more than 20 people to hold a public gathering or a public gathering at all. If we saw earlier that there were nine members in Belgrade, and according to a colleague, I thank my colleague, and if we are to assume that there are fewer members in the smaller cities, he theoretically excludes the possibility of participating in a public gathering or holding a public gathering. For these reasons, I call on us to reject this and the other amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47692	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47693	Replica, Mr. Chairman. I would invite the amendment's promoter to take a look to his place of residence, the place of residence, when he heads to Novi Sad, when he crosses Gazel, to look, to take a look to the right, and to remember what happened on that right side of Gazela just a few months ago or just over a year ago – the cemetery of ships, the garrisons, the inhumans, the unhygienic conditions of life, the various snakes, the rats. There, it was a picture of Belgrade. Let him look at what's now and what's the picture now. On the other hand, it is not true, Mr. Chairman, that only members of the SNS have access to the Sava amphitheatre. Here, I call on the amendment promoter to take a walk in the Sava promenade, the same change that no one should have gone safely until just a year ago, because what SNS is doing, which is done by Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is for all people in Serbia, not just for members or sympathisers or SNS voters. It is also for the amendment promoter, it is for his relatives and friends, it is for all Belgraders, it is for all people in Serbia. It's not true that we SNS members have access to the Sava amphitheatre. Let's look at how many of these people who are still working to make the first buildings come out above the ground, so that the first buildings in the framework of the "Bood on Water" show up and show up and to get that underground part, that's what people living in Belgrade do, live in Serbia, that's where people who might find the amendment promoter nice. Well, why is he insulting them, too? What is done in the framework of "Biograda on Water" is for all Belgraders, for all people in Serbia, for all citizens and for us, and for us, for them or for them, we leave for those who, as Mr Stefanovic said after the election, will watch this Assembly on the outside or through TV broadcasts or similar activities.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47694	From the time of the parliamentary group, 30 seconds have been spent. The People's MP, Dr Janko Veselinović, has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47695	Mr Babiću, but if I did not speak directly, I don't know what our common walk towards the Sava amphitheatre would look like, because in that walk, I would have to tell you that you, instead of poisoning rats and snakes, gave the foreign investor tens and hundreds of millions of euros and gave him the best land in Serbia. I'd have to tell you, Mr. Granny, that weed cutting... (Disabled micforone. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47696	Mr. Veselinović, please, no personal address. Request word again, you have another minute and 30 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47697	Mr. Arsic, please tell Mr. Babic that I would rather walk with him through the relaxed Serbian villages in southern Serbia, in western Serbia, where people had to go after bread, first to bigger cities, then abroad. To walk a little, i.e. walk together, if you will, through the Vojvodina villages and some villages down in southern Serbia, for which you have allowed the same country to be sold, or to rent to foreigners, and soon to run out of land, to be left homeless. Let's talk a little bit, Mr. Babic, or Mr. Arsic, tell Mr. Babic, in our walk with young people who have completed colleges and have been waiting for years for work, and they are supported by grandparents from pensions that you have reduced. I'd like to take a walk around these parts, Mr. Babico, and not go to a promenade where you opened a bar, and that's all from the investment you've made.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47698	I thank you, Mr. Veselinovic, for calling for a walk. I invite you to pass through Braničevsky County, through villages that were released ten years ago, where there is now no dog on you to bark. I invite you for a walk, nothing more. The People's MP Zoran Babic has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47699	Mr. Arsic, tell Mr. Veselinovic that tens of hundreds of millions of euros are actually billions. So, you don't use those tens of hundred million euros, it cuts a little bit, but well, it'll learn, it's young. As for unemployed young people, tell Mr. Veselinovic that, in all forms of DS that he went through along with those DS members, it led to Serbia's unemployment being 26%. Remind Mr. Vesenovic, Mr. Arsic, that this same unemployment is now still high, but 17%, that we have reduced it by 9% during this time as SNS leads the Republic of Serbia, unlike Mr. Vesenovic's time and all the aggregate DS conditions he has been through, which have doubled this unemployment by just four years from 13% to 26%. Remind Mr. Veselinović, Mr. Arsic, that I would be happy to walk with him to Hetherland. You know, it's that castle that was supposed to be a castle and an object for children and their families, for children distracted by development. You know, Mr. Arsic, but you can only come there, you can only wonder at that mockery, although for that, Mr. Vesenovic, in all the aggregate states where he was today, spent a million and 200,000 euros, and neither the buildings, nor the castle, nor the castle, nor the money, as added by counterpart Novakovic. He knows the situation very well in Vojvodina and Novi Sad. I would only remind you one more thing, and that is to remind Mr. Veselinović that Bojan Pajtic and DS, his DS, but also these other DSs of different leaders are only, but it is the same creation, rule and lead Vojvodina for 15 years and let Bojan Pajtic, Elezovic, and those people who have contributed to these villages run out of population.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47700	I think everything you said, Mr. Babico, Mr. Janko Veselinović knows very well. The right to replication, to mention the party, has a National MP, Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47701	I have to admit, Mr. Arsic, I don't understand why you didn't interrupt this kind of debate, because this has nothing to do with the law that's being talked about.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47702	They were replicas, that's why.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47703	Since we started a theme where anyone would like to walk, I would like you to walk me, for example, says here – a new apartment for 380 euros per square, according to Aleksandar Vukic. I'd like you to take us for a walk and show us where these new apartments are. To take us for a walk to see where this factory is making Mercedes buses that were supposed to be sold into tens of thousands of pieces by now. Well, let's see where the chip factory was supposed to be in India or New Paz, in value of, you might think, four thousand million euros or four billion, so that someone doesn't fix me. Also, remind me of where an investment of three billion euros in agriculture is, to take a walk, to see where people invested three billion euros. Well, let's take a walk and see that SISU company that took over FAP, making new trucks now. Let's take a walk and see some new jobs in Nis, and let's see those new jobs. At least find one to meet him, because we don't know anyone who's employed. Where is this reduction of unemployment, except in the heads of those who create today's public opinion, thinking we don't know how to read from the National Bank of Serbia's website what does it say? People, he's getting less employed and more unemployed, he writes officially. Well, let's take a walk, let's see that factory that's supposed to produce Boing parts. You know how, hundreds of millions of yearly exports were announced. Even the prime minister said it would reduce the trade deficit and reduce the budget deficit. Let's go for a walk, let's see, people, all of the villages of Podokin promised, not walk the Sava Promenade, where there's only one bar that belongs to a nearby, possible even tall party member who's in power. The whole town knows who owns that bar. Maybe you don't know that inside.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47704	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47705	Ladies and gentlemen, those who live in this town know who he is and how he took that bar from whoever got it... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47706	Thank you. The People's MP, Dr Janko Veselinović, has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47707	It is clear to the citizens of Serbia, Mr Arsic, you can tell Mr Babic that unemployment has not been reduced. Mr Sutanovac said, show one worker who got a job in Serbia, take a picture of this man, without having had a SNS book or that he had eventually not ended up as a highly qualified worker, or a high-end employee at a factory in broken jobs for 19,000 dinars, where business conditions are inadequate for a man from European civilization, where sick or pregnant sick are being fired. We know clearly who the newly employed people are, 50,000-60,000 SNS members, and that's all from employment in Serbia. Of course, the number of unemployed people looking for a job is smaller because many, to tens of thousands of people, young people, go abroad to look for a job. They're going to work at the gerontological centers, make coffee. High-educated people, doctors from Serbia are leaving. We're running out of medical centres, our engineers are leaving, and we'll be gone soon, in two or three years, without professional personnel.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47708	Time, Mr. Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47709	He knows that, Mr. Arsic, Mr. Babic, and you don't have to tell him anything, I think they're... . [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47710	Thank you. The word has Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic, right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47711	First of all, I'm saying that here is often manipulated in the National Assembly by incorrect data and data that are not based on any statistics or any real indicator. What are real indicators? The real indicator is, say, the number of people, newly reported, who started paying pension and social security. It can't refute any policy, politician, whoever wants to degrade has to say that someone who is now paying a pension and is now a newly registered person in the insurance system, or a newly employed worker. You have these in Serbia, in the last three years, about 90,000. Are all of them absolutely newly employed? Surely they didn't, there must be 10 or 20 or 30,000 people out of the gray zone, and they were working somewhere on black, they didn't have any health insurance, pension insurance, they didn't have any protection, and then someone was interested in them not having it. Today they have conditions and today a better and more serious organisation of the state are those people reported and they now have their salaries, social and pension insurance. But go to Krupanj, a city that was truly in a difficult and invisible position and before the floods, and after the floods especially. You have a company called Jinsi who came and built a factory with 400 jobs. Go to Johnson Electric, go to Svarovski, go where we increased the number of employees, they could have increased them before, but they didn't want to because they didn't have good conditions from the state, they do today, go and see where these factories work, how do they work? Go and see how new plants work, go and see how these people are employed. You have a situation today that we have a lot more people who have been reported, you have a situation where we go from 26.5% to 17.2% in terms of unemployment rates, which are serious indicators by the same methodology by which they were calculated at the time. So this country is seriously working to increase employment in Serbia, as can be seen.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47712	Thank you. Right on the replica, MP Zoran Babic, and this ends with the replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47713	You're going to need a lot of movies and a lot of painting machines, so we're going to take pictures of "Svarovski" -- 10m euros in investment, in Subotica 280 plus 500 employees. "Continental" in Subotica, also – 500 employees. The Ametek company, which employs around 40,000 employees globally, employs 150 plus 700 in Subotica, plus 700 this year. But not that everything is in Subotica, in northern Serbia. I am grateful to my colleague Dragan Nikolic for reminding me of the company "Geoks" in Vranja, which now opens a new plant on January 31st with 700 employees, and for the next six months, with the plan and completion of the new plant, another 1,300 employees. However, I would like to ask some people what they think, to take a walk and ask them – and what do you think of those thousands of euros promised only to win the election at that time, Boris Tadic? Did you get them? How did you spend it, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia? So let us ask them, and what reward do you have in those promised 400,000 jobs, again to win the election of Boris Tadic? So let's ask the people of Vojvodina if they've left and have they seen what's going on with Hetherland? Should we ask the citizens of Vojvodina when was the last time they entered a branch of the Vojvodina Development Bank? Did they have a specific transaction through the Vojvodina Development Bank? What about the funds of the capital investment fund? Let's ask the citizens of Novi Sad or other municipalities and cities in Vojvodina if they got the funds and who could get the funds of the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund? Could anyone, without at least having an interesting connection with the Democratic Party and the regime of Bojan Pajtic? No, he couldn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47714	Thank you. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Replica. A colleague informed me that he had closed a circle of replicas. You can't close a circle of replicas like that. How can he not? I don't know what that means to be a closed circle of replicas. Someone mentions the Democratic Party and the Vojvodina Development Bank and the Capital Investment Fund. How many times? You want to end up putting him in a position where he can't answer? It's got to stop somewhere. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: You can't just close the circle of replicas. He didn't mention you either. (Dear Sutanovac, from the city: He mentioned the Democratic Party. You are not the only one in the Democratic Party. (Dear Sutanovac, from the post: I am the Democratic Party here. You're not exactly the Democratic Party. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: I am authorized for the Democratic Party and please give me your word.) All right. I think we need to get back to the law. Do any of the applicants want to talk about the amendment? So, preventing or interrupting the reunion. Ambassador Janko Veselinovic wants it deleted. Here you go, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47715	Thank you, Madam President. So it's a member of the 18th when a police officer is to prevent and interrupt the gathering if, on the eve of the gathering or during its duration, the circumstances of Article 8 have arisen, which I will not speak of, because the Minister of the Interior has counted it extremely well and explained it. But I have no idea how someone can be against breaking up the rally if it is directed, and its objectives, when they are gathered, directed at calling and encouraging armed conflict or the use of violence, as set out in Article 8? I can't believe, respected citizens of Serbia, that's why the amendment promoter advocates. I'm shocked about that. All amendments, if you have seen - are deleted, go in that direction that they are against public order and peace, against legality, against protection of property. But that's why they're for chaos, for mess, for illegality. In fact, I understand why they're against the protection of property. So that, as in 2000, I can burn this assembly, against the law. And so that the same promoter, as he did in the previous period, could enter into someone else's property, into someone else's apartment, as he entered the apartment of Milice Badge in the street. The Kurjakovic brothers number 7 in Obrovec, I ask him to step out of someone else's property because it's about our refugee teacher for 20 years. In the end, the former prime minister of the government's attack, which today is not to be answered by the Prime Minister -- so he did not, as a former minister, take 750,000 euros to do software on VMA, but just the former defence minister. That wasn't Alexander Wolf. Alexander Vukic, as government minister, has not damaged the Republic of Serbia's budget by 470,000 euros, but a former minister from the former regime, with only one transaction. Madam President, what I'm saying is the State Auditor's report. I'm not talking in my head. Alexander Vukic, not as former defence minister in the government, took 12 and a half thousand euros, but a former defence minister while he was an assistant, imagine, interior minister, and was tasked not to get a job within two years, and after a month and a half, he was employed in another state body and did not return 12 and a half thousand euros. You know what, I wouldn't show myself in front of Serbian citizens if I did all this. Thank you very much. I suggest that the amendment not be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47716	Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47717	I recognized myself. Thank you very much. When a former Serbian Krajina minister who first came to Belgrade and launched an attack on Knin gives a lecture in Belgrade, I have to answer, don't be angry. I'm sorry to hear that, but the simple policy you've implemented in the Serbian province is that you think you're also in Belgrade. The former minister, today's prime minister, has made a debt to Serbia, here's your report today, 25 billion euros on today. Twenty-five billion, and you inherited 14.7 billion, people. Ten billion euros in unfulfilled four years, you've increased your debt. It's a little bit like someone said here in four years, ten billion. You can say whatever you want. Reduce pensions, cut salaries, raise all taxes. Pledge foreign investments that can't reach 2011 in any way. You're talking about things that all the state authorities have been investigating, and as you can see, gentlemen, I'm sitting here with you, no matter how much you hate me, and I totally understand that you hate me. Because the policy that you represented in the 1990s is the policy of the greatest evil that has developed in the former Yugoslavia, which has led to living in Serbia today, as it is living, because what you left behind in the 1990s, a wasteland behind, today you want to leave it in Belgrade. (Marko Atlagic, from the place: Replica. ) (Alexander Marković, from the post: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47718	Marko Atlagic, replica. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: no one is mentioned.) How is it not? There is no one for you, and you have recognized yourselves, and yet you have cried, and I have recognized myself, and I have recognized myself. I wouldn't brag about that. But that's why I have to give the Ambassador Atlagic my word because he claims to have recognized himself. Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47719	Thank you, Madam President. It is true that I was a minister, but not in the SAO Krajina, but in the Republika Srpska Krajina, unfortunately for me, and unfortunately for him, the previous speaker. It's not true, and I'm asking him to apologize. It's the police state's authority that can determine that I came first. It's the last one. I'm not ashamed of being in the process while I was in Krajina even, and running a platoon, an intervention group, I'm proud of it, for my good fortune, and unfortunately for you. I didn't, Mr. Ambassador, burn this assembly, but you, I wore a bucket to shut it down. Mr. People's Parliament, you've taken mine and your president to The Hague illegally. I went to defend him. But let's put that aside. Let's turn to the future. History will say that about me and you. We give each other our hand, we work together for the future of our country. It's no problem to propose any proposal, but it's not deleted. I want a game of work, order, discipline and responsibility. And, please, I'm asking you to apologize, because I came last, with the citizens, you can check, traveled 15 days and first when I came I went to the Red Cross to get my shoes, without them I came. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47720	Here you go, Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47721	Thank you, Chairman. I'm advertising a member of the 107th Dignity of Parliament. Therefore, the dignity of parliament, insulting, playing with the victims of Republika Srpska, the former victims of "Storms", and the insult of the MP, respected Professor Atlagic. I think you were obliged to react, especially in that malicious respect that he was Minister Krajina. Yes, perhaps Mr. Atlagic was Minister of Krajina, and you were Minister for "paste".
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47722	You want us to vote on the injury. (Alexander Markovic, from the place: No. No, no, no, The word is Alexandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47723	The President-in-Office, respected ministers, fellow MPs, the amendment's proposing that the end of the gathering simply be deleted. So, that gatherings exist, in a way that simply doesn't correspond at all to the principles given by this law. Was that the reason we heard here in the discussion that Serbia was in charge one way or another, but it should be answered that these debts were created as a result of a long-term borrowing policy for those who ruled until 2012. Those who brought this Serbia into charge of 232 credit lines under commercial conditions. When they were showing the budget, they were simply hiding those borrowings through bank guarantees. They did not want to go very honestly to Serbian citizens that we know how much we earn, how much we spend, because it was easier to spend on some "paste" on Vrakar than on Serbian citizens. Thank you. (Dear Sutanovac, from the post: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47724	Here you go. The violation of the Rules of Procedure Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47725	You just hurt him when you gave your word to Mr. Markovic, because he is only able to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure if he is directly after the injury has been done. Before him, a colleague of Atlagic spoke, not me. And the distinguished colleague who was in the DSS yesterday, and today speaking on behalf of the SNS, about the time when DS... What are you doing here? [[off microphone]] )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47726	Because I don't want to hear any more discussion about the violations of the Rules of Procedure, each other's insults and the like. So, a break of 10 minutes and we're back to work. (Dear Sutanovac, from place: two minutes.) Ten minutes, yes, let's all get some rest and go to article 18, talk a little bit about the law. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: but ten, not five. I'm counting the time, so now as you get it, some time it's five, some time it's ten five, I'll see, I'll think about it. [[after breaks]] We're continuing our work. Members of the 18th Amendment were submitted by MPs Aida Ćorovic, Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47728	It was some quick attempt, but I was ready for that development. So, what's changing in that article? What's our proposal? Here again puts one possibility of arbitration. In Article 18, there is a part that reads – on the eve of the gathering or during its duration. We're kicking out that part of the article, and then the member should, so the police officers are authorized to prevent or interrupt the gathering if the circumstances of Article 8 of this law arise within the framework of a public assembly. It's a perfectly clear, precise definition, which leaves no doubt about what, what. Of course, an authorized person can interrupt the assembly if it is seen that something will happen that is not in the respect of public order, law, property, human life, integrity, etc. There is no need to put it – before the gathering is held, since it cannot be the organizer's fault at all. If anything happens before maintenance, it's the fault of those who are otherwise responsible for public order and peace, which is the police. So you can't force the organizer to be guilty of something that happens before the rally, so that's a reason to ban the rally before it starts, no matter how funny it may be if someone's telling the truth, as we just heard from the minister. I heard it was the cleaning of the Sava amphitheater, it was transferred by the minister why the authorities didn't do it before, how if he'd been going 40 years there... [[off microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47729	The theme. That's why we took a break. The theme, let's talk about the reunion. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: You know how I'm going to finish the sentence? I don't know. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Well, how can you interrupt me? I can intervene. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: How come, on what basis? Well, for example, on the grounds that you have no right to talk to me like this. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: According to the Law on Public Order and Peace is forbidden to return and prophesy. That's right, funny. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: That's what you're doing now. That's funny, really. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: Give me back the word to speak.) What can I give you back? (Zoran Babic, from the scene: What are these threats? Shame on you! (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: I, calm the one there. What did you say, calm down? (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: This one there.) Ambassador, you've crossed every border of fine conduct here in Parliament. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: How can you say? How do you know... I heard what you said about fellow MPs now. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the city: It is the application of force. Ambassador, please don't let the picture in public be that I force you, ridiculously, truly. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: These guys in front of you seem a lot of pythomy than you do.) Really? Ambassador, did you just say everything and insult anyone you could? Well, then, we can move on. (Zoran Babic, from the place, to insult a woman? Brooke, shame, bottom. I'll let you talk, but really, you insulted anyone you could. I don't think you're the only PUPS MP you've reached yet, but there's time. Please don't. We all got some epithet. Now I've turned out to be some kind of harambass here. You and I visually, when we stand next to each other, it's funny, if you say I commit violence against you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: I am waiting.) You have completed yours according to this amendment. Let's move on. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Who is stopping you, unclean conscience? Did you say that this law prohibits prophesying, reading thoughts, and so forth? And now you're saying something about my conscience? I'll give you my word on the amendment. Don't insult anyone. It doesn't make sense. We want to pass a good, quality law, the minister adopts amendments. He listens very carefully, he answers, and now we're going to have a debate about insulting each other. Will you continue? You've got 15 seconds left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47730	So, gentlemen in uniform is very clear what I'm proposing, and to whom it's not clear, he's going to have to check it in some other way. And I need to be trusted as far as public meetings are concerned, because I personally organized one 400, and there was no violence, no clash with the police, and you can look at it in the history of your interventions. So much for that. And that, I don't know what I've offended and what your system of values is, what else can offend you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47731	Thank you. I'm just looking out for Rule 27 on the application of the Rules of Procedure and nothing else, and what can offend me, we'll skip it, right? For example, I find disquieting terribly insulting in this country. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47732	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Article 105, 106, 107, so we can list all the members my colleague's farmer has injured. So, Madam President...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47733	Tell me one member.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47734	Article 105. - No one can speak at a session of the National Assembly before asking and receiving a word. That's what my fellow farmer did. Article 106. - The speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. Article 107. - The speaker at the National Assembly session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly without speaking of warnings etc. which the President of the National Assembly and the Chairman should pronounce. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you can't make anyone respect you, but you have to stand up to anyone who doesn't respect you. In order to respect someone else's value should have its own. Because someone doesn't understand it, that's his problem. However, you were obliged to react to all the insults that were directed to you. I appreciate your tolerance, but for less things, there are warnings here and I ask you to apply these provisions in the future because the session can be kidnapped, because my fellow farmer simply can't understand that he can't insult the uncontrollable other MPs. In order for someone to offend us, they must first respect the dignity of the National Assembly. Therefore, I ask you to keep an eye on this in the future because it permanently insults, disrespects, etc. and I am the subject of this, and I believe that you, as chairman, must apply the provisions of Article 108, Article 109. Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47735	Thank you. Would you like to vote on the violations of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Members of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic - SDS, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted to the 18th amendment. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47736	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, article 18 speaks of preventing or interrupting the gathering, and he originally says: "Police officers are authorised to prevent or interrupt the gathering if the circumstances set out in Article 8 of this Act occur before or during the duration of the gathering. " We have suggested that, instead of saying, “if upon the sight of maintenance, ” it be: “if immediately before the beginning of the gathering, or during its duration, the circumstances of Article 8. For what? The amendment proposes a solution to which prevention or interruption of the gathering can be taken immediately before the start of the gathering if circumstances arise which are otherwise the reason for the ban on gathering. The legislator predicts that it can be done before maintenance. Such a provision is not precise, because it can mean it immediately before maintenance, but also the day before, so we suggested that this is how this article is formulated, in order to be much clearer and to reduce the possibility of personal interpretation of the law. I would also ask and inform the citizens of Nis, based on the discussion so far, that they have the right based on the money invested to walk the Sava Promenade, because how much money we pay from the budget, you have the right to walk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47737	Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47738	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, honourable MPs, the Turnover Movement has also submitted an amendment to this member of the law, under the heading ‘Measures in the event of interruption’. The most controversial thing about the Turnover Movement in this article is that the interruption of the gathering can be ordered orally. So it's enough for a police officer to come, of course, who will first receive orders from the Central, not to mention from which headquarters, and they will say, "distribute, if you don't break up, the measures of coercion will be applied." Isn't that right, Mr. Stefanovic? This is one of the provisions that makes us think that this law is deeply against democratic values, against free gathering and is deliberately proposed, or adopted before the next elections. So an oral order by a police officer can order an interruption of the gathering. Then, in some due time, a written explanation can be given. However, people must be removed from the street and, as a result, unless they are removed, they are intended for drastic punishments, I would say, dragon penalties. This law has dragon penalties which, in the next amendment, I will speak up to 1.5 million dinars for the organizers of the event.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47739	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47740	In the event that someone calls for violence, the collapse of human and minority rights, the burning of the city, the destruction, I know that some lawmakers who are not from Belgrade simply don't mean anything that something is being built in Belgrade or that there's no pain in them, if there's something going on in Belgrade, but those of us who are from Belgrade are hurting and looking forward to building in our city... There are over two million people living in this city, Serbian citizens and we look forward to doing something in this town, because we pay taxes and we want to build in our city, and so do other cities. When our government is able to provide that money from other sources, not just from the budget, because it was easy to spend from the budget, so you have a 20% deficit, then it's commendable for our government that does it without deficits. As for this when you call for violence, of course the police will ban you from meeting. You don't think it's normal, since Article 8 strictly defines under which conditions a reunion can be suspended. You don't think it's normal to make a mess, to fire, to break, to invite other people to kill, and then the cop comes out with a typewriter, slowly ticks you, and it gives it to you. It's an experience over Serbia. Secondly, we've been in power for some time now, I've been a minister for over a year and a half, who we've banned this rally so much, where we've made it impossible for someone to come together, where we've forbidden citizens, who protested peacefully, to do so? Where it's violent, where it's called for killing, burning, demolition, chaos, instability in our country, the police won't let that happen. One more thing, being involved in politics, being in opposition, can't be protecting him from it if he was corrupt, if he's a criminal, and if he's looking for destruction and arson.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47741	Members of the 19th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs from the Boris Tadic-SDS Group, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47742	So, a similar member, Madam Chairman, as counterpart Janko Veselinovic suggested. We propose that the prevention or termination of the gathering of Article 18 of this Act may be carried out only on the basis of a reasoned solution immediately delivered to the organiser of the gathering or contact person. We think it's something that prevents free interpretation, abuse, because all the time it's been said there can be abuse and it's done for the best of purposes. The additional problem is that there is no legal protection provided for such interruptions. We have been witnesses from the past that the law can be interpreted in one way or another and that is why we ask you, Minister, to clearly define all those situations when there is a ban on a gathering. We assume everyone's best intentions and protection of property, but it can also be abuse. You're absolutely right, you're not the only one who likes to wall Belgrade, and I love it. We in Nis when we do something, we work out of the city budget, or we discuss self-dependence, unlike you who do it with a "lex specialise" from the Republic budget. That's the basic difference, by the way, that I'm against building Belgrade. I graduated from elementary school here in Belgrade, so I like this town too, but I was born Nisli, and I like to work in Nis, but there's something thin going on in Nis, thin.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47743	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47744	That's why we supported the opening of Johnson Electric, and the expansion of their capacities right in Nis, where wages will be better, where engineers are educated. So then co-operation between primary schools, in fact secondary schools, universities and Johnson Electrics that young people, who finish those schools already refer to the practice at Johnson Electric and that they can already advance their employment in those companies. These are prestigious, serious companies. It wasn't before, it was very thin back then. It was very thin then, and then it's logical that Nis must of course, be more represented and I hope he will be. As far as "Begrada na Voda" is concerned, it is much more an investment by a foreign investor. It is a "lex specialis" that will allow the overcoming of various bureaucratic and administrative problems, so that people in Belgrade are not hostages that all authorities had previously fled as the devil from the cross to solve anything. We are the authority that is ready to deal with and with difficult problems, which is ready to enter into solving and property problems and obtaining permits to solve permits much faster and that citizens do not wait and have police who are serious, who is adequate, who has new uniforms, are the tasks of every good government. Those authorities who couldn't, couldn't or didn't want to, I'm sorry about that, but when "Belgrade on the Water" is in other stages of work, now we'll see the first buildings coming out of the ground and that's a good thing. You will have the opportunity to see how much this will affect the growth of the entire country's GDP, how many tourists will come, even if they see something from this region that does not exist in their cities. And it'll leave, some money will be left in restaurants and hotels, in some tourist industry. That's good news. Not to mention the construction industry and at least 17,000 people in this country who will be able to live from the construction of this "Biograda on Water". Because some foreigners don't come here to build, build people from this country, build companies from our country. Money's only foreign, and that's good news.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47745	Thank you. Time. The word is by MP Milanka Jeftic Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47746	Dear Ministers, honourable MPs, respected citizens, of course there is no basis for accepting that amendment and it would be great if, when submitting the amendments, we read in detail the proposed provisions of the laws to which we are making amendments. The amendment should not be accepted on the grounds that, in the event of a suspension of the assembly, the first position of Article 19 has defined that the measures may only be taken in cases where some of the provisions of Article 8 which are precisely and clearly defined which gatherings are not permitted, namely gatherings which violate life, health, morals of man and citizen, which call for violence, which are called for racial, sex and any other discrimination. There's something else I need to say about the written notice. In the work of some state institutions, and so is the MUP, there are some situations that have been defined by law as urgent interventions. This is precisely one of the measures in these urgent interventions when the organisation of the gathering is first orally announced that according to the law it must be discontinued, and only after that is written notice, of course written, reasoned notice, because it is a violation of health, property, calling for violence, etc. These are all reasons why the amendment should not be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47747	Thank you. The 20th Amendment was submitted by Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47748	To Article 20. The turnaround movement has submitted an amendment, as there is an expression of the legal punishment of those who do not act on the orders of police officers. It is said -- a fine of 30,000 dinars, will be fined for a violation of a natural person, a participant of a gathering, if he does not act on the orders of the organiser or the leaders of the gathering and does not leave the meeting place. So this is a police state dictionary. This is nothing else. If he doesn't leave the meeting place. Suppose, mothers who haven't been paid a child's allowance for five, six months, and there are those, and they get together and they come in with the police and they say, leave the meeting place. Or come, let's say the doctors that Minister Vujovic insulted yesterday, and come to the police office and say leave the meeting place. Or come the educational workers that Minister Vujovic and Minister Verbic cheated and come to the police office and say – leave the meeting place or you will pay the fine prescribed by law, which was brought to the polls of the elections, or parliamentary elections and local elections. We hope that there will be elections in Belgrade and that the citizens of Serbia, or Belgrade, will have the opportunity to give their assessment of "Belgrade on Water". Do they think that tens of millions of euros and the best land in Serbia should have been given to destroying rats and snakes, as you said? Do they think that in order to clean up the Sava amphitheater, the budget of the Republic of Serbia and the perspective of Serbian citizens should have been sacrificed?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47749	Thank you. Time. Minister Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47750	I don't know what kind of snakes you're seeing, I didn't mention them, but what I'm saying is, it's a shame you're putting so much energy into the attacks on "Belgrade on Water", because it's a good thing for all of Belgrade's citizens and all of Serbia's citizens. It's a good thing for this country's economy. I'm sorry you don't understand. Maybe when the city moves more into construction, when you see how much concrete the benefits are, how much is it coming back, then you'll understand why it was good for Er Serbia to start working on better bases, not what JAT worked on, where every year we gave 20 to 30 million euros from the budget, every year, for years, so in 10 years it's 200, 300 million euros, which were thrown into the water and didn't bring anything. So the estimated value of the airport was below 100m euros, because no one landed with us. E, when you increase capacity, for example. Er Serbia, so you have an estimated airport at a minimum of 500m euros, which is the value of our airport, so you have the possibility that this Er Serbia, which is mostly state-owned, will bring you something rather than throw it into it, so you will also see "Belgrade on Water". As far as this point of law is concerned, the court decides what punishment it is, not the police. The court will decide and this is in line with the Law of Infractions. The other thing, the police won't ban mothers, never, never forbid any gathering, nor come to mind, but if anyone comes and wants to burn this building of the Assembly, if they want to burn down the maternity home, if they want to where babies grow up to throw Molotov cocktails at babies, not only will they ban it, but they will arrest them. We won't allow it, chaos, violence, people on the streets who want the instability of this country. And that's the meaning of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47751	Thank you. Ambassador Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47752	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have now heard how the MP, the law professor, who represents himself as an MP, is now speaking of the police state, even though during the reign of the former regime's party, where he belonged, at a public gathering, a public protestor was killed, by having fans at a rally, where I was with my wife, with many mothers, with many small children, where even the leaders of the opposition parties got a pendred across their backs. And today, the man who approved all this and who kept quiet that the protest killed Ranko Panic since the beating, he is talking about the police state. About this second how it feels to be a mother, I don't know, you have to ask him. Secondly, my opinion after all this, it's about doctors, and I don't think that this thing with the suggestor can solve doctors or weeds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47753	A Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by Aida Corovic. He's not here. MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the 20th amendment together.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47754	Ladies and gentlemen, this is one of the two amendments I will explain today during this debate. I appreciate, of course, when the minister, respecting the strength of the argument, accepts one of our amendments and thus, by his actions, increases the support of the New Party in the electoral body, in this case from 9.4% to 9.5% respected gentlemen. Bravo, excellent Minister Stefanovic for this action and contribute yourself to our growth. We propose this amendment that criminal policy in the event of public gatherings be not so harsh. Mr. Stefanovic, you know why? Sometimes there are gatherings, protests, and for example civil disobedience cases, the only remaining mechanism in the hands of citizens as the last guardians of constitutional freedom. These are the words of a great theorist named Jurgen Habermas, who dealt with protests, who dealt with civil disobedience, and our proposal to Minister Stefanovic is that criminal policy on this issue is not so harsh. You're the one who asked the question, which is the convention that's forbidden, etc. Where were we so sharp? I'll tell you on my case what happened to me. So, I was one of the three MPs who went to the Sava Venac Police Administration to just file an application for a rally against laying the foundation stone for "Belgrade on Water". You know what the police officer told me through Mr Bozovic who was one of the MPs? This is what he said, he says – as far as I'm concerned, as if you weren't. For the first time, I mean, I took out this MP's ID to show the man. Well, wait, I am a citizen, but maybe I'm a little more directed into some rights. Minister, we didn't even get a chance to file for the rally. It wasn't that someone banned them from being compared to two, but the man said you had no right, for example, not even as a MP to file a report. What's that?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47755	Thanks, time. You'll continue the story. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47756	I'll read it to you, of course, because here maybe for these or those reasons, there's a lot of getting mixed up all the time. We have allowed these laws to public gatherings dots. This is a country where public gatherings are possible at every point, except in front of some strategic facilities, schools and kindergartens where, hopefully, we all agreed, it's impossible to organize in a normal way. Those who disagree can vote differently, of course. But as for the interruption, or restriction of the freedom of assembly defined in attitude 8, I will read it once more for the public. When a meeting can be interrupted – when there is a threat to the security of people and property, public health, morals, the rights of other or security of the Republic of Serbia, when the objectives of the gathering are aimed at calling for and encouraging armed conflict or the use of violence, at violating human and minority rights and the rights of others, i.e. to challenge or encourage racial, national, religious or other imbalances, hatred, impatience, when the threat of violence, destruction of property or other forms of public order and peace in greater scope. So, everyone who gets together somewhere, don't break the law, don't break violence, don't crash, don't burn, don't encourage hate racial, national and religious intolerance and don't threaten any danger of banning together, no. This article is further protected by the organiser, because even if the organizer is a rational man who cooperates with the police, of course not in such a way as to interpret it, and invites the crowds to differ and they say – we will not listen to you. Then the law must have, the state must have a measure to protect citizens from possible violations of public order and peace, violence, threats, arson and everything else.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47757	The word is Dr. Vesna Rakonjac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47758	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, I would only ask my colleague to receive information from Mr. Zivkovic – how many citizens of Nis cost the civil disobedience of not paying for electricity, so when you won the 2008 elections, enormous bills arrived, and civil disobedience was at work, right? Much more than these 30,000 to disrupt public order and peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47759	The named isn't here, so you can't ask him now, and no guess is allowed. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: I know. You don't know for sure. The letter said you were asking him, and you're not in a position to ask him now, so I'm afraid you'll be falsely testifying. Next time. Now he'll come. Take it easy. Parliamentarians Natasa Vukkovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Goran Ćirić, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic and Vesna Marjanovic submitted to the 20th amendment. The word is Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47760	Thank you. Our amendment is in the direction of the amendment given by counterpart Pavicevic, if we consider that Mr. Minister has completely disarmed me by introducing the possibility that someone would throw Molotov's cocktail at the babies. I haven't heard it happen in Syria at the moment, but let's go if it's a possibility in Belgrade to punish those who call for it. I just think they're being treated by some other law, not this one. We suggest that the maximum penalty provided for in the 30,000 dinar law be tens of thousands of dinars. As you know for yourself, you remember a protest that was in front of the Serbian Parliament, a famous protest with that Styrofoam when the organiser called to sit down and traffic was suspended, the deadline for the rally was broken, and none of the officers started to charge the fine, or write them a report, to those sitting on the Styrofoam. Is that right? I think the fine of 30,000 dinars is inappropriately high, and I don't think you have any idea that this canvas that you're on is going to be very high right now, sooner or later, and it's going that way. So you don't have to make a law that's only brought to opposition. Think about it when you make draft laws about what might happen in April of the month and get it back to you as a boomerang. I'm giving you this as a tip. You're a young man, relatively inexperienced in relation to me, so you'll have that in mind because class can change, and then you'll see that this isn't right.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47761	Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47762	Those things you have experience in, I hope I don't get it. As far as this is concerned, we are not making a law against the government or the opposition. We are making a law for the citizens of Serbia, the laws are there to be respected. It will be so when the SNS, just as I don't welcome it in my life, goes into opposition or happens now in the first election. This will happen when the citizens of Serbia want it rather than anyone else. As far as the law is concerned, I say once again, there was no ban on the meeting you're talking about. If a ban had been issued and an act had come in which the assembly was suspended at this time and ordered the dissent of any disrespect would be against the law. Since no one brought that ban at that time, we weren't in any kind of breach, because to break something, there must be an order. Since those orders were gone, there was no consequence. Would this or that, now, what would happen if it did? As far as this is concerned, we're just sorting out the situation that when the organizer calls for a break-up, because this is the norm when the organizer is informed and he's called for a detachment. So, the organizer thinks that the conditions laid down in Article 8 have really been met that there is a security risk of any kind and says – please break up, someone from the rally who has come, because the organizer doesn't have to control every man at the rally or it's realistically possible and he says – I'm not going to get out of the way, here we're going to stand at the intersection and we don't care. Then you have the opportunity to apply certain legal sanctions. What's the point of everything? If anyone can do whatever they want, then we don't need laws. Then whoever's stronger, who's bigger, who's bigger, who's bigger, who can do more, then there's no state, then it's anarchy. We edit the system, someone from the state authority informs you in accordance with the law to suspend the meeting, the organizer calls, everyone is obliged to act.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47763	Thank you. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) A Member of the 21st Amendment was sent by Aida Ćorovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Janko Veselinović submitted to Article 21 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47764	This is the last amendment I'm defending today. So the Turnover Movement pointed out, when the debate on this law began, that the penalties were dragonish. This article, as it is said, shows, for the violation of Article 1 of this article with a fine of between millions to millions and 500,000 dinars, so from one million to one million dinars and 500,000 dinars, the organizer will be punished as a legal person, and a fine of 70 to 120,000 dinars will be fined by a responsible person in a legal person. What does Article 1 for which this sanction is prescribed – if the gathering is held in place at a time not mentioned in the application, what can theoretically happen to Mr Stefanovic? That the organizer would eventually, uncontrollably, uncontrollable to the end of the people who are at the rally, go hundreds of meters away or simply cannot fit into that location at which they reported the rally and that the organizer should pay the fine from one million to one million dinars and 500,000 dinars. Or, possibly a rally instead of 12:00, as scheduled, ends at 12 o'clock and 15 minutes. Who more, Mr. Stefanovic, will dare to report a meeting of legal persons when they are so dramatic punishments? Dragon Penalties. Imagine an NGO that risks paying a fine of millions to millions and 500,000 dinars, because several people have crossed the opposite side of the street or because 15 minutes has remained longer than expected?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47765	Thank you. Time. The word has Minister Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47766	First of all, that's not what the law says. First of all, they're all obliged to comply with the provisions of the law, and they're not exactly six feet or six kilometers away, but they're heading towards the rally. Everything is clearly defined, what is the place of gathering and these people are obliged to fight. I haven't seen this NGO that has so many rallys a day, it can't exactly organize people to come. Most of those I've seen don't have a problem paying a million or two million dinars, they have serious income resources and they have where to finance themselves. Secondly, it's not the law's goal to punish someone, it's the law's goal to respect the law. When you respect the law, there's no punishment. You respect the law and there's no problem. It's like if you say, you get in a dead drunk vehicle and you walk down the street and the police will stop you and charge you for the fine. Well, of course he will. Draconsk. Don't get drunk in the car. Don't hold meetings where you didn't report them. Not when you've reported to a certain place, that you're going somewhere else. These are the things they write in the law. There's nothing spectacular about it. I know it's necessary here to present everything as if it's something terrible and terrible, but this is a law that allows public gatherings in a very liberal way. More liberal than they've all been before. And the fact that people want to make fun of the law and act as they please, I just can't. Of course, all the meetings reported neatly or those who do not register, do not report, those who are subject to reporting reported, come to the scene, gather, do not call for killing, destroying, burning, hatred, evil, of course you have no consequence, but then we will have more peaceful gatherings. Then everyone's gonna think they're setting up meetings so they don't invite us to kill or burn. Then your meetings will be decent and normal.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47767	National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Goran Ćirić, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic and Vesna Marjanovic submitted to the 21st amendment. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47768	Thank you. Mr. Minister, today you have accepted two amendments which, under the circumstances, were handed over to me before the time of your fellow Members, but we have come to the situation now that one amendment must be accepted, whether you want it or not, because simply in Article 21, point 5) vehicles of public traffic that we have solved in Article 11(1), i.e. in point 3. So, as you accepted that member, you must accept this member, as much as you hate it now, because the two amendments have passed here which I handed over in time before they are colleagues, but since your colleagues, how can I say, are closer to you, then it is more acceptable for you. The point is that the organizer of article 21 provides for punishment if he does not do something that we said in Article 8 that he does not need to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47769	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47770	I must say, Mr. Pavicevic is my favorite opposition. Mr. Sutanovac said I accepted your amendment because you were closer to us, so we had to. In any case, we have already taken measures when we have accepted the previous one, to bring all technical changes into line, all of the technical things that have been related to that amendment will already be accepted through the various committee amendments that harmonize the text of the law with that, because it is a legal procedure. And you won't accept mine again? This isn't about your amendment. We've accepted a large number of your amendments, not that we haven't accepted any. There are no problems, as far as I'm concerned, I really don't know the difference between MPs when we have good amendments. When amendments are bad, I absolutely don't care where they come from. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Can I just have 30 seconds please? )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47771	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47772	There's one more thing here in this amendment said, and that's to punish the one who reported the gathering, and the gathering isn't held. Our proposal is to set a time limit until he can cancel it. We have suggested that it be five hours before the meeting is held, unless the meeting is held for some reason. I think it's perfectly logical, because now that someone's scheduled, there's been an emergency situation, he can't cancel, he's been punished for automation. So, I hope you accept this amendment as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47773	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47774	Anyone who reports the rally until the start of the application can cancel it. The idea was just so that people wouldn't make such an appointment on the paper of mass gatherings, you're hiring traffic rerouting, the police, all of it, and then they don't show up and they're withdrawing state resources. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: in what time can he cancel it? He can cancel it until he's held together. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: The better version is five hours. ) It may even be a better solution, that it may be more hours, for by the start of the gathering it may also be the subject of abuse, of course. Do you have that amendment? Well, that's the one I gave. The same as the one on Article 8.) Just give me a technical correction to that amendment, that part I'm willing to accept.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47775	You've got to hurry until we close the debate. Won't you be in a hurry? I have to close the discussion. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Let him accept the amendment.) I can't make a minister, you say I'm a bully, like I just did. The 21st amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47776	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment I submitted to article 21 is the last amendment I will explain during our debate today. To my great satisfaction, gentlemen, but also to the satisfaction of all citizens of our Republic, it is one of the accepted amendments, and one of the 15 accepted amendments to us New Party MPs on these three legislative projects. I have to use this occasion, Your Honor, to make a statement. On the first day here, when we discussed the amendments, I said that our 14 amendments were accepted, but no, today the minister accepted another one during the debate, which means there are 15 accepted amendments for these three legislative projects. Overall, gentlemen, in this year and nine months, we have 185 accepted amendments, which when transferred to percentages is 9.5% of the support of Serbian citizens to the New Party. Well done, I mean here, and applause. Here, Mrs. Raconjac, Mr. Babic, all the gentlemen. I think, gentlemen, it's my turn to say that this is a single result primarily of the commitment of our opposition MPs, hard work, and even one honest work in our National Assembly. And, as we have prepared for all legislative projects, Minister Stefanovic, bring to your colleagues whose legislative projects squat in the assembly procedure, Mr Vulin, for example. The mention of the markings, Mr. Udovic's Law on Sports, Mr. Selakovic of Justice, that we have prepared amendments, we are ready to discuss, as soon as possible, before the disband of this Assembly. First of all, Thursday at 4:00 p.m., since it's the last Thursday of the month, we're waiting for the Prime Minister in three days to answer all our questions and amendments finally, I think, in January of the month. Thank you, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47777	The word has Minister Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47778	I just have to say that when the government accepts the amendments, it's kind of government support.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47779	Thank you. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović. He's not here. The 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Aida Ćorovic. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Member of the 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović. Members of the 24th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The amendment was submitted to article 24 by Aida Ćorovic. Member of the 25th Amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic. After we've finished searching all the amendments, let me ask the minister, will you accept that amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47780	Which one?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47781	The amendment of the Messenger of the Shutanovite.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47782	So if that amendment is technically corrected in a way that we can fit it into the current text of the law, then we will accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47783	So, we're gonna put it to a vote, so if it's contrary to other provisions, we're gonna break up tomorrow, so we're gonna have to...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47784	If he submits a technical correction, then he can.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-25-0.u47785	That's right, it can't be partial. I only understood attitude one that you were willing to accept. Okay. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Thank you for your work today. I'll see you tomorrow at 10.00.
