ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52232	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the First Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. I would like first of all to hear the anthem of the Republic of Serbia, which will be performed today by the Children's Choir, under the leadership of conductor Leontina Vukomanovic. We thank another children's choir "The Magic" and move on to work. [[intonating anthem]] Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 112 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 143 MPs are present in the hall and we have working conditions. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation, in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has an Anamaria Vicek.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52233	I thank, honourable presidents, honourable MPs and MPs, dear colleagues, today I will ask Mr. Srdjan Verbic, Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development. On the basis of the latest amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education, which was adopted back in 2014, the procedure for recognising high school diplomas acquired abroad to the Ennik-Narik Centre, which was only educated on 1 October 2015. My question is, or a group of issues will refer to the functioning of the Ennik-Narik centre. It has been five months since the centre opened, and given that under the provisions of the Law on Higher Education, it should be expected that the procedure for recognising the said diplomas should be completed in 90 days. Questions related should be relevant to the functioning of the Ennik-Narik centre so far. In what way does the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development oversee the Ennik-Narik Centre as an institution operating within the Ministry, which is further a function of the province's instance in the process of recognising high school diplomas acquired abroad? We are well aware of the reasons for the delay in the opening of the Ennik-Narik centre, and the first group of questions is precisely about the operation of the center itself. How many Ennik-Narik Centres have employees, what qualifications do employees in the center, or what special training have they been through, to hire in the center? The second group of issues concerns submitted applications. How many requirements for the recognition of high school diplomas acquired abroad have the Enik-Narik Centre been submitted to date? What's the structure of the applications filed? As to the state where the high - school diploma was issued, or the direction in which the diploma was acquired? How much has been positively evaluated so far, i.e. I confessed to the diploma, and how many were rejected and why were they rejected? What is the reason why the candidate, only after 90 days, was first informed of what document is yet to be delivered to the centre, when we know that under the Higher Education Act, the whole procedure should be completed in 90 days? Due to the delay in opening the centre there could be expected to be a delay in operation at the start of the centre. However, how long is currently to wait after online surrender of requests, until the deadline is obtained when the candidate is personally admitted to the Ennik-Narik centre. In the past, have additional exams been determined for which colleges, or which directions? If the need for additional examination is determined, which college is to prepare candidates, or conduct exams? This issue is extremely important, as in the period when the Ennik-Narik Centre started working, various ministry statements could be heard in the media, i.e. by the Ennik-Narik Centre on additional exams. According to the ministry's co-worker, additional exams will not be determined with the aim of recognising a diploma, as the centre is evolving a foreign study programme and only determines the level it fits. While the co-workers of the centre explained the need for additional exams, the evaluation of foreign study programmes is carried out by external co-workers of the Centre, who are otherwise employed in colleges and higher education institutions which have so far performed the recognition of diplomas, i.e. which continue to recognise with the aim of continuing their studies, and therefore it is understandable to continue to pass additional exams. How does the Ministry plan to address the problem that arises on several occasions in practice, the inability to end the process of recognising higher studies, e.g. Master's or doctoral studies in case basic academic studies are allegedly unrecognizable, because these studies in the Republic of Serbia allegedly do not exist? And does the Ministry or the ENIK/NARIK Centre possess data on the number or experience of our citizens abroad with recognition of higher education diplomas acquired in the Republic of Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52234	Thank you. The word is a folk letter from Nada Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52235	I would like to ask on behalf of the LSV parliamentary group two questions to the Ministry of Agriculture and to protect the environment. The first question concerns the alarming cutting of forests in Fruska Gora National Park. This national park is becoming less and less, unfortunately, like a park, and more and more turned into a goal because of a mass-cutting forest. In fact, news has recently been released in the media and on social networks that more than 10 hectares of acacia forest has been cut up in Frushko Gora, which has completely dented the entire move from the Dragon to the Vrdnik. The request for cutting has, they say, arrived from the nearby Vrdnik monastery, which received this forest in the restitution process. However, in the National Park, they say that the cutting of forests was carried out on the basis of a plan of cutting, approved by the Ministry of Agriculture, and done by the Faculty of Forests in Belgrade and that no property has yet been handed over to the monastery, i.e. that the restitution is not yet completed. They have been cut down, they say, dried and rotten, clogged trees and in their place will be planted oak china, which is otherwise an indigenous species. In fact, it's hard to believe that there was an epidemic of drying and that it had to be cut in this way and this mass. Ecologists on the other hand, unlike the foresters, suggest that the urinary tract will be an ecosystem and that, for example, the move was known for bees, the bees are held there, they will be denied for the acacia flower. It also threatens the risk of erosion, and in particular it will be a problem to lose the leaf mass, as there will be greater air pollution. We know that Fruska Gora is the only and most forested part in Vojvodina. Also, people come forward with stories that on the Rohal Base move, there's a cutting massacre, and it's also mentioned that there's been a noise cut at Brankovec's. I wonder if this is also a sanitary blade or if it's one of the illegal cuttings, and don't remember this many trees being pulled out of Fruska Gora. Normally, apart from the regular cutting, there is also a wild cut, so only in 2015 did Fruska Gora National Park file 47 applications for illegal cutting, 20 against celebrities, which means that some people are dealing with a business of lawless cutting. That's when the damage was done to over two million dinars. Since jurisdiction over the National Park is in the hands of the Ministry and is taken away from the province, I ask the question of the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection – why is such a large scale allowed to cut the acacia and does the church not have to respect the ecological requirements and recommendations, if it is true that the cutting order has given the monastery? The second question – is it at the long locations mentioned, so Brankovac and Rohalj databases are about the illegal or sanitary cutting of trees, which is also one of the major problems and are new trees planted on the bare surfaces? I ask the second question on behalf of the villagers of the village of Lazarek, it is also addressed to the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection. In this village, which has about 13,000 inhabitants and is located in the municipality of Sremska Mitrovica, they complain of the uncontrollable throwing of dead pigs and the appearance of wild dumps in meliorative channels. As far as dead pigs are concerned, they say, an organized way of removing animal corpses, and the village is known for its large number of pig breeders, and these animals should be transported safely and destroyed in the cafeterias. By law, any local self-government is required to organise on its territory a safe collection of animal corpses and should have an object or assembly centre where these corpses would be deposited, as well as a vehicle that would collect this waste and drive from the land of individual and drive to factories for safe destruction. Unfortunately, the state of the case in Serbia is practically alarming. Namely, the modern "Energo-Green" or a plant for the safe destruction of animal waste in India has stopped working. The Cupria Cafilarium is not working, and only the Proteinka Cafilarium in Sombor is doing so much, which is why citizens in this place often complain about the smell and pollution of the environment, but so far have failed. The town of Sremska Mitrovica was trying, according to some information, to solve this problem, to build a waste collection point together with the "Energo-Green" but this has not been done so far because of the delay in the work of this factory. In view of the complaints of the citizens...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52236	Time. Thank you. The word is from MP Zika Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52237	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members, my first question is for the Ministry of Health. In fact, it concerns increasingly frequent attacks on healthcare professionals who, I say, have been experiencing culmination in some way in the last few months. It's especially happening, especially in the city I come from, from Somboro. The ambulance works according to European standards. The first thing to say is that people do human work, have great results and don't deserve verbal ones, let alone physical attacks. The specificity of emergency assistance is that it enters citizens' houses and it comes, to say the individual is encouraged, especially when it comes to weekends and they are mostly individuals, it often happens that those who are aggressive or in alcoholic condition, and then there are various situations where even the lives of workers are at stake, as was the case in Somboro. We are aware that many people live in difficult conditions, that many survive barely the end, but of course that there is no excuse for virtually living on people who have saved many lives and who often do not have their own free time solving other people's problems and trying to help everyone. We had a situation, like I said, in Sombor, that an ambulance came out, an example, that she went out to help people by phone. There was a fight during the weekend and while one guy was being rescued, another man pulled a gun on the paramedics. After a few days of a very similar situation, where a woman was called to be in a very difficult state, when emergency workers came to find that this woman and her son had been drugged and that her son had also come across emergency workers with knives. It's really scary, considering, if we want to say and pay these people, and I think my proposal is, and also the question of the Ministry of Health to reconsider granting official status to health workers, and especially to those who work in emergency centres and in emergency care. It's a very similar situation with firefighters, people who also do very important work and very difficult work and very similar situations happen. I'll just say there's a diary in Sombor, that's all. Captains of people coming out, especially at a time when they don't work 26 dinars. For 26 dinars, they save lives and are very often in such situations that those who are currently saving lives address them in the worst way. I will commend what the Ministry of Police and the Ministry of Health have done, bearing in mind that everything is happening and that they have decided that the police are going around the health institutions much more often, but we believe that this is not enough. My second question is very brief, I'm asking the Ministry of Agriculture. The long-standing dissatisfaction of people with the "Vojvodinashum", especially of all the fishing associations, which have about 10,000, culminated in a petition, where they are trying to make a kind of conversation with the people of Vojvodina, but they keep refusing. There's no control of fish fishing, there's even a reasonable doubt that it's done in cahoots with individual services, which is terrible. My question is – is there a possibility at the Ministry of Agriculture to call a meeting where representatives from the "Vojvodinasum" land will be present, where the fishing associations and people from the ministry will be present and we will try to solve this long-standing problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52238	The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52239	Thank you. On 17 December, I asked the Ministry of Education questions concerning the recognition of higher education diplomas from Kosovo universities and the sensitive problem of missing textbooks in Albanian. I got a partial answer only to the textbook's problems, but not about nostrification, about the recognition of diploma. I would like to raise the already asked question about the Ennik-Narik Centre and immediately ask the Minister what will be done to help the Ennik-Narik Centre achieve the 90-day deadline in the procedure of nostrification of diploma recognition? We have a practice to wait for more than two to three months from electronic application for documents, and then the second period that is scheduled for 90 days is significantly exceeded. We already have examples of people waiting over four months, and they can't get nostrification. An additional problem of nostrification of diplomas from Kosovo's university is still unresolved. I didn't get the answer, so I'm asking the question again -- will an announced official statement from the last meeting in Brussels that this issue was finally solved and that today should be implemented? Since several times have been delayed and has not been resolved, I ask again – will the very sensitive problem of recognising diplomas from Kosovo universities finally be resolved, or will it continue to wait, as until now, for years for the achievement of the elementary human right for young people who graduate from Kosovo universities to have the right to work in Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedji, because their right for now is being denied? In my opinion, but for political reasons, because I do not see another motive that our citizens cannot exercise such rights for two years, since the Constitutional Court declared in April 2014 an unconstitutional government regulation that regulated this issue. As far as the textbook is concerned, the answer is incomplete, because I asked if it was possible to implement the practice we had from 2003 to 2007 when decisions made by the Ministry of Education made it possible in a certain school year to use textbooks in Pristina for that school year? For most textbooks we had such approvals during that period. Since you know, the donation has brought the textbooks and they are still at the customs terminal in Presevo, I demand again, I insist that an answer be given to what will be done on this matter. I would like to comment on this sentence where it is said that the three textbooks that attended the procedure have not received a reply from the Republic Educational Council, and that the minister has approved those four textbooks for Albanian language for high school, but since the next school year. I don't think there's been a law here for four years on the basis of an education and education system.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52240	Time. Thank you. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52241	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, respected Nishlia, repeatedly in this assembly hall asked the Prime Minister a question in the past month and a half and I didn't get an answer, probably because somewhere between the Assembly and the government building, the issue closed. I will repeat this issue for the sake of the citizens of Nis and the citizens of Serbia. My question to the Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic, is the following content. Mr Vucicu, in 2012 and 2014, in the Republic elections, as well as in local 2012, the SNS and you promised the citizens Nis a better life, prosperity, more jobs, a fairer attitude towards the city budget, better communal equipment, one word: the prosperity and development of the city of Nis, the south and southeast of Serbia, and the whole of Serbia. I don't know about the rest of Serbia, but you haven't fulfilled any of your promises in the town of Nis. What is evident is that in the town of Nis, we have 365 companies less and we have 201 companies less for these four years than the SNS and you run and run Serbia. What is interesting, there are no new jobs in the town of Nis, and this is also seen from the city budget, because in the city budget at the position of the profit tax, which is the basic income of local self-government in 2012, three billion and 600 million dinars were provided for, in 2015, that position would be at three billion and 200 million dinars, and in 2016 that position would be three billion dinars, means 600 million dinars of less income for the city's budget in the position of paying taxes on profits, which is the basic income of local self-government. What's interesting and what wouldn't be nice if I didn't mention that there was employment in the town of Nis, Mr. Vukic, I don't know if you have that information, but in public enterprises and institutions, that is. in the case of direct and indirect budget users. You can tell from the budget. The 2012 salary position envisioned a billion and 800 million. I will remind our fellow citizens that in the meantime there has been a 10% cut and it is logical that the position in the town of Nis should be a billion and 620 million. It's two billion and 250 million for 2016. So much for the story and the promises that there will be no party employment and that people in public enterprises will not be employed by indirect budget users, but in the real economy sector, in the real sector. What is still to be said is that in the city of Nis, the budget is in position – services per contract, i.e. temporary and occasional jobs, for 2012, 200 million dinars were foreseen, for 2016 840 million dinars are foreseen. This is the data that speaks of the SNS preparing for the upcoming elections and will likely be hiring temporary, occasional jobs to raise votes. One more question, Mr. Wolfie. You know that in the Republic of Serbia, there are over 83,000 workers who have sued their firms and who have received judicial judgments, and as far as the unmistakable obligations of social enterprises towards workers are concerned. There are 4,500 in the town of Nis. This problem is not from the beginning of your government, but you promised in the 2012 and 2014 campaign that it would be resolved and that these workers would be compensated. What has been done to solve this problem is to form a commission in 2015, June 25, which was to specify the exact number and amount to each worker as much as is due and to give a deadline when it will be compensated. Nothing happened. What's going on is, let's say, in the town of Nis, you have information that before the elections now, promises to be re-enlisted, recorded by these workers, and that their first tranche will be paid by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52242	Thank you. Your time is up. The word has been made by the People's Ambassador, Plasimir Stević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52243	Dear Presidents, honourable Members of the People, I ask the question to the Ministry of Culture and Information and the KIM Office. Nearly two months of people in KIM, as well as those who have escaped with the infidel, ask me – is it possible that the only Serbian "unity" paper on KIM can be shut down. Who, and with what right, suggests that the oldest newspaper in Serbia, after "Politics", only the printed note by Serbs on KIM, suddenly and without any explanation, be abolished by reason that there is enough Internet release? Since I had my first job assignment on that list, as a journalist, I am sincerely concerned that "the Unity" could be shut down. As far as I know, the Public Enterprise "Panorama" has been legally and successfully transformed into an institution with an obligation to issue a "Unity" and a magazine for literature and culture "Depreciation". So the government found the right, the only legal correct solution to the survival of Unity by its decision. I am aware that the media public in Serbia, the NGO sector, supported a member of the Information Act for the establishment of the Panoram Institute during the public debate on the Information Act, and precisely because of the survival of the United Nations list. In advance, it is clear that the government has clearly recognised the state interest and importance of this list for Serbia in KIM. I was also aware that the Panorama Union, as well as the Journalist Club, formerly active journalists of Unity, had written to the competent authorities several times and had not received any answers. According to them, the authorities ignore them, while individual officials who see personal and individual interests in all of this have been detained to resolve the status of Unity. In their opinion, these are individuals who understand neither the KIM problem nor the problem of informing the Serbs on KIM, but are aiming at something completely different. As a former journalist of Unity and a man with KIM, I know how much "unity" means to Serbs in KIM, as well as exiles. It's for all of us more than a newspaper. That's why there's no reason for the rush and the motion to shut down. "The Unity" has been going through difficult times and bitter temptations throughout its history, fighting in Kosovo-Methochial difficult times for truth and the righteous life of the disreputed Serbian people. As such, he resented all chauvinists, secessionists and counter-revolutionaries, including terrorists on the political scene, as in the second half of the last century, and especially at the end of it, was at stake. The "unity" list is the first medium on the premises of the former Yugoslavia to write about the separatist movement in Cosmet, about attacks and pressures on the Serbian people to leave KIM. In the 1970s and 1980s, "The Unity" was the only place for Serbs from all over Cosmet to speak their torment and the evil of Albanian neighbours, and I witnessed it myself. The Serb people at KIM "The Unity" recognized as their faithful interpreter and witnesses, but also builders of new programmes, legislation, cultural stands, manifestations, creators of new books and defenders of the identity of the Serbian people. There are almost no journalists and cultural creators with KIM that he did not publish his first texts and lyrics in Unity. It's a leaf that's left a deep mark in KIM's history at all. The latest generations of his workers, journalists and editors have proudly continued to defend the tradition of "Unification" and in difficult new conditions following persecution from Pristina and the usurpation of the entire property. Now someone from the KIM Office is extremely persistent in order to transform the current law prescribed by the government of Serbia and from who knows what motives "the Unity" for the Serbian people, an extremely esteemed paper with a 80-year tradition, wants to turn into some kind of a online edition, injuring the interests of the employees in it and repealing the right of the local people to inform in their own language and letter, which would drastically and directly undermine the identity of Serbs in KIM and all expelled and expelled with KIM. According to me, individuals from the KIM Office intend to use the "Panorama" facility, which is based on a member of the Information Act, and because of the United Nations list, establish in Belgrade some productions, agencies, a multimedia centre for informing Serbs on KIM, while at the same time printing the "Unitship" release shuts down, as it is reportedly going to be on the internet. I ask – how does the Office plan to inform Serbs on KIM through electronic media, which would be founded in Belgrade, within the framework of the Panoram facility, and transfer the Unity to the internet edition? Imagine if the Internet is available and whether it is used by people from small settlements on KIM? All in KIM, as well as the employees of "Panorama", "The Unity" is clear on what the production of the agency in Belgrade would serve as part of the "Panorama" and who would be employed in them?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52244	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52245	Let me ask you a question. I ask the question of the Ministry of Culture and the KIM Office – what measures will it take to prevent the plans to shut down "Unity", as the only Serbian vote on KIM? I hope it doesn't come to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52246	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52247	I'm asking for an explanation and information to be made by Minister of Health Zlatibor Loncar. The request consists of the following to provide me with evidence of education, specialist studies, training and promotion in the form he delivered when he was elected as a candidate for minister of health in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Health Minister Zlatibor Lončar is an object, and this is almost as usual, investigative journalism and I in the topics that researchers ask him as questions do not enter. The most well-intentioned advice would be that he was honest and without delay and no doubt answered all the questions, but the data on whether or not he was perfected and educated in the UK, whether or not he was slow to advance in academic elections, and that data is required to be submitted without counterfeiting, without error and without any missing facts, because it is a question of the relationship between members of the Government and the National Assembly. I demand that I be provided with verifiable evidence of what he claimed to be in his professional career, which he informed the Prime Minister of, and he informed all of us. There can't be any lies. I ask the question to the Minister of Agriculture Snezani Bogosavljevic Boskovic and it concerns the payment of subsidies with the requirement that, as soon as possible, check what happens to the payments of subsidies. In fact, the information we have from the Vojvodina farmers is that, out of 6,000 dinars plus 6,000 dinars, therefore, the subsidies related to the fuel subsidy and everything else that comes with the receipt of the bill and subsidies per hectare that the minister here claimed was paid for, that there are no delays, there are serious delays, that only 2,000 of the funds needed and intended on the basis of fiscal and other fuel bills and what else the farmers need, and that these amounts of money per hectare do not have at all. Our question Minister Bogosavljevic Boskovic – why is he late for subsidies, where is the stalemate, whether in the order in which farmers apply or not, why are we as MPs informed that there is no delay in subsidies and that everything is paid? Agricultural works are autumn and spring, summer, summer and harvest, and they can't wait, not slow in the administration, not stop, and it's not nice to be told that they're paid, and that they sit, watch the news and listen to the minister, and they know they're not. It would be good for everyone if the minister replied when she would make a legally binding payment of subsidies to farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52248	Thank you. The word has a People's Messenger, Zarko Micin.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52249	Thank you. Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen, today's parliamentary question will be asked by the Ministry of Finance, Minister, Mr Dusan Vujovic and the Ministry of Interior, Minister, Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic. In order to implement the austerity measures, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, at the request of Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic in 2015, sold official vehicles, selling 363 serviced vehicles in three bidding circles, with the state making as much as 115 million dinars. I think it is precisely showing that the government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by Prime Minister Alexander Vukic, is consistently and responsibly implementing a policy of savings in the public sector, in favour of all citizens of Serbia. On the other hand, however, Bojan Pajtic, a little further Prime Minister of Vojvodina, is implementing a completely opposite policy -- a policy of lauding spending money on the people of Vojvodina. According to information I have, the government of Bojan Pajtic has a total of 143 official vehicles available. However, despite this number of official vehicles, the Government of the AP Vojvodina bought five new vehicles in May 2015, which cost two vehicles of damage – Superb, which cost a piece of 2,841,000 dinars and a vehicle damage – Superb 3,6, V6 4h4 out of 260 horsepower, costing 4.333,000 dinars per piece, which is the most expensive vehicle of the brand in the offer, whose average fuel consumption is as much as 14.7 liters per 100 km, and which is certainly bought for the Prime Minister of Vojvodina himself, Mr Pajtic, in order to safely and luxuriously arrive on his vacation on Briony. Two vehicles have also been bought damage – Citigo, at a price of 99,000 dinars per piece, which means that the total was spent on official vehicles of 12 million dinars. The question arises – why the government of Bojan Pajtic and the spending of money on the people of Vojvodina? I think the answer is clear, when we look at the average government of the AP Vojvodina spending over 100 million dinars on official travel. And this year over 100 million dinars were planned on these very official trips. So, on the one hand, we have a clear savings policy implemented by Aleksandar Vukic, and on the other hand we have a policy of lauding the spending of the citizens of Vojvodina by Bojan Pajtic. So I think that there is a clear choice in front of the citizens of Serbia and Vojvodina – do they want the policy of affairs, pride and illegality, which is being conducted by the Democratic Party, headed by Bojan Pajtic, and which will bring Serbia back to that dark age in which it once was or wants a policy of savings, accountability and diligence, conducted by the Serbian Progressive Party, headed by Aleksandra Vukic, and which of Serbia will create an advanced, decent and orderly country, in which citizens will live better? My parliamentary question to the Ministry of Finance is how many of the official vehicles were sold after the decision of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and how much of the state's total money was earned on this basis, and the Ministry of Interior – how much, according to the Ministry's record, was the total vehicle registered to the Government, the Assembly and the authorities of the AP Vojvodina, and is it true that five new official vehicles were purchased last year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52250	Notice of the absence of the People's Messengers. He was prevented from attending the session today: Zarko Obradovic. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the session has been convened within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider the draft acts in the proposed agenda of the session as soon as possible. You were presented with records of the tenth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015, as well as the First, Second and Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. As most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from those sessions. I would like to inform you that by verifying the tasks of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs and the mandate-immunity issues, it has been established that none of the Members of the Parliaments has submitted them in writing any objection to those minutes. We're moving on to a decision. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52251	Thank you. I ask you to establish the quorum before the vote, and it will give you time for the MPs to gather, so that there will be no problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52252	You were looking for a quorum? He didn't understand his colleague. Please determine the quorum. Please insert your cards into your MPs' units. We don't have a quorum, a 10-minute break. Please come in 10 minutes to continue our work, 114 present. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Please determine the quorum again. Put your cards in the MPs' units. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, there are 148 MPs present in the hall. I am voting on the minutes of the tenth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015, held 21, 22, 23, 24, 28 and 29 December 2015. I conclude the vote: by - 143, against - no one, with abstentions - has voted, has not voted - nine MPs. I agree that the Assembly adopted the minutes of the tenth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. I am voting on the minutes of the First Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016, held on 18, 19, 22, 25 and 26 January 2016. I conclude the vote: for – 146, no one, with abstentions, has voted – 10 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the First Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. I am voting on the minutes of the February 1, 2, 3 and 4th session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. I conclude the vote: for – 147 against – no one with abstentions has voted – 11 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Second Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. I am voting on the minutes of the 2016 National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia session held on 5 February 2016. I conclude the vote: for – 147 against – no one with abstentions has voted – 11 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia this year. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before setting out the agenda for the sitting, we need to make a statement on proposals for putting on the agenda of the acts under emergency procedure, supplementing the agenda and a proposal for merger in the debate. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Ivan Jovanovic proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Bill of Origin of Assets. They're not here. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 157 MPs. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. A group of 14 MPs of the Democratic Party Group proposed that an emergency procedure should be put on the agenda of the draft law on the termination of the Law on the determination of public interest and specific procedures of expropriation, the issue of a building permit for the realisation of the project "Belgrade on Water". I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, with abstentions, voted - 148 MPs for – 11 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that the draft law on housing and maintenance of buildings be put on the agenda following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against the abstentions, has voted, no one – 157 MPs. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The Committee on Finance, the Republic's budget and the control of the spending of the National Assembly's public funds proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Proposal for a decision on the termination of the role of members of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 144 against – no one with abstention – has voted – 14 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The Committee on Culture and Information of the National Assembly has proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the List of Candidates to elect a member of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. So we're voting for an emergency procedure. I conclude the vote: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted – 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted an emergency procedure, but since this is a proposal on February 4th, it remains on the agenda, according to my interpretation. Right? We'll consult more services, then we'll see. The emergency procedure has not been established. National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic proposed that an urgent procedure be put on the agenda of the draft law supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs. I'm putting it to a vote. (Zoran Zivkovic: I answered. No, no. There's an emergency procedure going on first. I conclude the vote: for – three, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted – 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic proposed that the draft law amending the Law on the financing of political activities be put on the agenda following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. The MPs have started voting already. I conclude the vote: No one, with abstentions, voted 146 MPs for – 11 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the United Nations on the provision of contributions to resources of a multidimensional integrated mission of the United Nations for Stabilisation in the Central African Republic. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: no one, the abstentioned one, voted for 154 MPs. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. The High Judicial Council has proposed that, by emergency procedure, the motion for a decision on the election of judges first elected to the judge's office be put on the agenda. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 144 against – four abstentions – there are no votes, 12 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending of the National Assembly proposed that, by emergency procedure, the draft decision on granting consent to the financial plan of the Agency for Energy of the Republic of Serbia for 2016 be put on the agenda. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: for—two, against—four, abstentions—there is no vote, no vote of 154 MPs. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and the Local Self-Government of the National Assembly has proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the motion for a decision to resolve the role of President of the First Basic Court in Belgrade. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 145, against – four abstentions – there is no vote, 11 MPs have not been voted. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, by emergency procedure, the draft decision on the election of the president, the deputy president and members of the Management Board of the Regulatory Agency for Electronic Communications and Postal Services be put on the agenda. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: no 11 MPs voted for – 145 against – three abstentions – for – 145. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has proposed that, by emergency procedure, the proposal for a decision on the termination of the position of President of the Criminal Court in Jagodina be put on the agenda. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 144 against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 14 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and the Local Self-Government of the National Assembly has proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Proposal for a decision on the termination of the office of the President of the Criminal Court in Kruševec. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 144 against – three abstentions – there are no, 11 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Babic suggested putting on the agenda an amendment to the decision on the resolution and appointment of members and deputies of members of the Republic Election Commission as an emergency procedure. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 145, against – four abstentions – there are no, nine MPs did not vote. I find that the Assembly has accepted this proposal. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Legislatives of the National Assembly proposed that, following an emergency procedure, a proposal for authentic interpretation of the provisions of Article 52(1), Article 29(1), Article 30(2) and Article 50(1) of the Privatisation Act (the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia), No. 83/2014, 46/2015 and 112/2015), which submitted to the National Assembly on 28 February 2016 (point 2 of the proposed agenda). I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 146, against – five, with abstentions – there are no, there are no votes of eight MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the draft law amending the Law on Public Media Services be put on the agenda after an urgent procedure. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 152 MPs. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. We're going over to the agenda. National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – draft law supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs. Do you want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52254	This proposal wants to ban the advertising of political parties in electronic media, whether there is an election campaign or not. The reason for that is very simple. In this state that we now have that commercial advertising has two disadvantages. The first drawback is that some parties, first of all ruling, no matter what period, not only now ruling, but also in previous periods, have an absolute advantage over other participants in the election process. The money spent on this is a few dozen or twenty times larger, i.e. the proportion of those who invest least in it and those who spend the most money for it is 20 to 30 times, which is not allowed if we want to have an evenly decent and equal approach to the electoral process. Also, the money comes 99% from Serbia's budget, either from the budget or from the financial potential of public enterprises and institutions. This first part is legally used for that purpose, and the second part is illegally used and these are public secrets. Twenty million euros are spent annually on advertising political parties in the election campaign, of course when the elections are. This money is used for video materials, videos, clips or promotional content, which are by their quality, script, messages, and technical quality below the level of “Farma”, “Parma”, “The Big Brother” and other garbage that can be seen on our televisions, which certainly does not raise political culture, or the culture of dialogue, or anything that could cause better, more appropriate, more polite, cultural conditions for the assembly campaign. These funds should be directed to another position. Let's just say, for treating children with rare diseases, where there's a lot of noise, and nothing's done about it. Replacement for dumb, cheap by content and expensive by advertising money should be a duel of shows and shows where parties represent their political programmes. This is what can give citizens a clearer picture of the political offer in the next election.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52255	Thank you, MP. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: for - nine, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted 147 MPs. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic suggested that today's session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill amending the law on financing political activities. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52256	The same goal is to amend this law, to advertise political parties in the election campaign has been regulated in these two laws, so we have submitted amendments, or amendments to both laws, with the same goal, I have already talked about it, but let me repeat and maybe expand. The quality of political advertising in Serbia is below the level of those reality shows I listed. Very rarely do these ads resemble some debates in the National Assembly, which is a very low level of political culture, and they spend a great deal of money, which, of course, is needed by this society, regardless of the great stories that everything here is fine, that we are doing well, that we are ashamed, that for the first time in history we are like this or like this. Absolutely 20m euros can be used for many other things, and I think colleagues from all political parties will agree that this amount of money should be used for what is most important for the future of this country, which is for treating children from diseases for which there is no cure or for which there are no experts or apparatus that can help treat them. If we look at statistics and financial and that health care, with 20,000,000 euros, several hundred children would be cured, permanently cured, permanently brought to a state that they could normally live in their beautiful country of Serbia and only for one campaign. On the other hand, if it is not spent on this purpose, but spent as before, we will be bombed as politicians, and we should do so, but primarily Serbian citizens, innocent and innocent citizens of Serbia, with the highest level of ham, mud, primitives, which we have seen in these campaigns before, of course, with exceptions, but these exceptions are so rare and so mild that they do not deserve to be mentioned more seriously. That's why I appeal to your conscience. I call upon you to vote for the adoption of these amendments to the law, to less watch or less watch your leaders on television in various short, meaningless forms, and to replace that lack of watching your leader with knowing that you helped, that we all helped to cure many children together from severe diseases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52257	Thank you. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one with abstention – has voted 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Aleksandar Senic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on corporate tax. Does Ambassador Alexander Senic want a word? (No) I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—seven against—there is no one who has ever voted 146 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Bogdanovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill amending the Law on corporate tax, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 11 September last year. Does MP Goran Bogdanovic want a word? (No) I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for eight, eight, and 146 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Slobodan Homen suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law supplementing the Anti-Corruption Agency Act. The promoter's not here. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – six, against – no one who is abstention – who has not voted 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Higher Education. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52258	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we suggest that once again in our National Assembly we discuss one great principle, in the system of higher education of all European, open, democratic societies and states, respected gentlemen, and that is the principle of academic honesty. I believe that there are no MPs, nor any MP who knows what the meaning of this principle is, and I would like to remind you that we MPs of the New Party in September 2014, gentlemen, have referred to the assembly procedure a proposal to supplement the Law on Higher Education, which we have proposed to our colleagues and colleagues here in the National Assembly, that our National Assembly as a central political institution reacts in an appropriate manner, to a major problem of plagiarism that we have faced, especially in mid-2014. Dear gentlemen, we have fought for 15 months to insist that academic honesty obtains legal recognition, in terms of defining that principle in one law. And, we succeeded, gentlemen, in December 2015, we all voted here for the principle of academic integrity to enter the Law on Scientific and Research Work. It's respected gentlemen, for me was one occasion, and now I'm going to use it for the occasion, to congratulate all the academic integrity fighters of the academic community, all the combatants who conduct their research with honor, and based on the principle of honesty to achieve high scientific titles in our country as well. For me now is this opportunity where we should define the agenda, these sessions, the first session, the first regular session in 2016, to check all together a little, respected gentlemen, how this plagiarographer works that we installed at the end of 2015. Let's look ourselves in the eye here, ask ourselves, and above all, the representatives of the executive government, whether the law has begun to apply, whether this machine, this plagiarographer, is involved, whether any of the highest state officials who are seriously suspected of this serious offense, a violation of academic integrity, in the face of serious suspicions that some parts, some dissertations are plagiarized, were invited to this plagiarographer. Not that I know of, gentlemen, and I invite everyone to the plagiarist to start working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52259	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -13, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 142 MPs. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on planning and arrangement of space and settlement. Here you go. There's a word for Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52260	To remind fellow Serbian public deputies that this law was prepared more than half a year ago by my colleague Pavicevic and I together with experts from the New Party, as our promise to the minister responsible for the area, Ms. Mihajlovic, who said there was no such law, that no good law was made to regulate the area and we prepared it. Our draft law, which was based on the 2003 law, which dealt with the issue of planning and construction in a very good way in a very good way, but the government that was supposed to apply it from 2004 to further ruin it in the worst possible way and it remained unapplicable and therefore it was the idea to refresh this matter with a new law and make a law that will solve many of the problems that we have in our country. Has anything changed by passing any other laws that allegedly regulate that area? No, I don't. A Law on Planning and Construction has been passed that has not solved almost one problem, there is no progress in building Serbia and you can see it in statistics, and you can see when you look at the landscape of any city in Serbia, there are no cranes, there is no evidence of anything being built. The area of illegal construction should also have been resolved long ago. A law has been passed that we have even supported, but in the implementation of this law, there are many problems that arise from the fact that the Law on Planning and Construction has not adequately found a solution for many problems, so that the process of law enforcement or these legalization has practically not begun, regardless of how we have re-established and cut the tape and the first permit and for the first time in history, etc., but I don't know anyone who solved this problem, and I know a lot of people who have this problem. Therefore, it is an important area and Mr Pavicevic and I and the experts of the New Party have tried to contribute to resolving the problem. Obviously, he's not solved. I call on you to make this effort at this time, that at the last session, many of you or many of us, probably for the last time in these benches, make one real contribution to what the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is serving, and that is to solve citizens' problems, not to complicate and so complicated the lives of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52261	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for –14, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a motion for a resolution of the National Assembly on the recognition and condemnation of genocide against Armenians committed in the Ottoman Empire between 1915 and 1922. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52262	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we suggest that at the first session of the First Regular Session in 2016, we also discuss a text that we have referred to in the assembly procedure, which we propose to the MPs and MPs, to condemn the genocide of the Armenians, which was done 100 years ago, respected gentlemen. We believe that condemnation is genocide, our duty both human and political. When genocide happens somewhere, gentlemen, which is one of the most serious crimes, then I don't think there's a man who should remain immune to what happened. It's our human duty to react to a crime. It is our political obligation, I also think here to respond to all the political messages, to all the political ideologies, which contain within themselves any direction to a possible crime. So it seemed to us that we should put this resolution on the agenda of this session of the National Assembly and all together here condemn one genocide 100 years ago. Dear gentlemen, in my court, it is our obligation that comes from painful experiences and our people in history, but it is an obligation that arises, I think, from other peoples, who live with us in the same territory here, in the Balkans. Our history has been permeated by often misunderstandings, our relationships are consumed by often difficult conflicts, they are permeated by crimes, and when we have a situation, that a genocide has been done in some place towards a people, then, based on what all the experiences of our people and people with whom we live together on this territory, on the Balkan Peninsula, I consider my duty, and I intend to share it with you, to react to a situation that implies that some individuals who felt part of a nation have been exposed to a serious crime called genocide. Once again, I appeal to all the MPs that, in the beginning of the 21st century, we react to the serious violations of some of the civilization values we have achieved, even with a delay of 100 years if it happens, and then, I think, it's appropriate to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52263	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions who voted for – 11 against – 142 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Value Added Taxation. Please, just sign in. The word is Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52264	President-in-Office, the proposal to supplement the Value Added Tax Act is short, and the issue is that baby food is taxed at a tax rate of 10% and not at a tax rate of 20%. Last year, during the whole autumn session, I asked the MPs for support to put this item on the agenda and to adopt such a law to show that we care about this coffee will be Serbia's future. The fact is, and we all know that in Serbia, the situation with birth is getting worse every year, and that is one of the reasons for this is in fact the difficult economic status of young people in Serbia. The fact today is that 30% of young people in Serbia live either in poverty or on the poverty line, and the fact is that today young people in Serbia are hard, 50% young people are jobless, and those who work, work for small money in uncertain working status because of changes in the law that this government has proposed in its term and therefore they are harder to decide on family-based. Our goal was to make this law as easy as we can, but to open the debate here in parliament, which should listen to what the problems of citizens are and to propose solutions for them, not to be a flow water heater, which comes from some government initiatives, which, not overnight, but to consider and adopt during the night and which they do not have, do not bring any benefit to the citizens of Serbia. If this change were possible, the minister also said when we tried to discuss the amendments and addition of the VAT law, which the government proposed, that we amend this law through the amendment, and he said it was possible to increase administration, but in his view it would not bring too much savings. I think the current way to return VAT is very complicated and it makes it impossible for a large number of people to make savings and thus does not make life easier for people who have small children, and that is why I urge you once again to adopt the bill. Please determine the quorum before the vote begins.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52265	Please confirm the quorum. Please insert your cards into the e-system MPs. Srjane is here, or you're not here, so I know what to say. There you are. Now MP Zivkovic will help us. No, bad. People's MPs are 124. I'm taking a five-minute break, and we'll keep working. [[after breaks]] To repeat, so to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert another card. Thank you. I conclude that 130 MPs are present in the hall and I am voting on the draft law supplementing the law on value added tax, MP Marko Đurisic, as an addition to the agenda. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: ten, against two abstentions, no one has voted 126 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I ask the MPs, there are very few more to determine the agenda and then commit yourself to other political activities. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a bill on amendments and additions to the Property Tax Act. Here you go, Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52267	Thank you, Mr. President. The draft law amending and supplementing the Property Tax Act, on behalf of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZ, was submitted at the end of June of last year, when citizens received tax resolutions for 2015, increased by 20, 30, 80%, and in some cases several times. All this is happening at a time when due to the reduction of wages and pensions, the rise in electricity prices, excise duties, this has been another blow to the standard and to the pocket of Serbian citizens, all in the desire for the incompetent government to hide the fact that it cannot ensure budget filling in a healthy manner, by strengthening the economy, but only by seeing that even deeper and deeper grips from citizens' pockets. So they realized that through changes in tax solutions for the year 2015, they increased solutions for a significant percentage, and in some cases the tax on land property, which has not been taxed so far, interpreting the provision of the law in the wrong and, in our opinion, is a harmful way for the citizens of Serbia. In fact, the Law states that the untaxable part of the land is up to 10 acres and that it is taxed. The tax administration, interpreting this Member of the Law, accounted for parcels larger than 10 acres and issued tax solutions to the entire area. So if someone had a 15-ari salary, the IRS accounted for the value of his property tax for all 15 acres. Our amendment suggests, in a few of the things we propose to amend and supplement this law, it is clear that the untaxable part is up to 10 acres, or that in cases where the land area is larger, it is taxed only that part that is over 10 acres. The second change is that the property tax cannot grow more than 7% on an annual basis, i.e. it cannot happen what happened last year, which is that tax solutions are bigger than several times. Our proposal is for this growth to be only 7%, although the question today is if we listen to the government's praise for the fiscal situation...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52268	Thank you. Time. I'm putting the motion to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: seven, against two, abstentions, have not, have not been voted by 130 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a draft law on the suspension of the law on the temporary regulation of the way pensions are paid. The word is Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52269	Thank you, Mr. President. I deeply believe and believe that in the upcoming elections, citizens will appreciate that the worst law has been passed in this term in the last two years, the Law on the temporary regulation of the way pensions are paid. By doing so, more than 600,000 pensioners are illegally, against the constitution and above all unjustly punished by Alexander Vukic and his incompetent governments and reduced their pensions from 10% to 25%, in some cases and more. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: And who are they reduced to? ) I ask you to calm Mr. Babic, the Honorable President, who is obviously having some problems when talking about the pest government of Alexander Vukic here and holding back a little longer... (Zoran Babic, from the place: There is no such thing as a worse place than Tadic. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52270	I would ask you to propose an addition to the agenda in a way that convinces the MPs of the majority to vote for you, since it's all about the majority in democracy.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52271	I assure the majority of the representatives of this, unfortunately unsuccessfully, six months, but I won't stop because of that, but you have an obligation to warn those who earn from the bench. What this law has led to is that from the further poverty of the country's most vulnerable inhabitants, it has led to a large number of people, and this is now more than 650 of them living in poverty today, that 27% of Serbian citizens are at risk of poverty... (Zoran Babic, from the scene: How much did you fire? And all this noise and throwing at rude colleagues isn't gonna change that picture. (Zoran Babic, from the place: Yes. ) This picture can be changed in the elections ahead of us by not voting for Alexander Vukic and the pest government he led for the past two years. Our law stipulates that pensions return to the level before the adoption of this law, and that the difference that has not been paid in the previous 14-15 months as a public debt is converted into bonds and paid in a maximum of 12 months of war, starting in May 2016. As my final argument to the ruling majority to accept this law, I urge you to remember the government's promises from the beginning of this government's mandate. Namely, they said at the end of the term of office of the pension and salary government will be higher than ever in the previous period. Since we do not adopt the draft law on the termination of the pension law, this promise will be unfulfilled and there will be another hundred unfulfilled promises made by this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52272	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for nine, against two, abstentions, there is no vote, not 130 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac suggested that the session's agenda be complemented by the points of the draft law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52273	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our MP, Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, has submitted a bill on the bill and I have suggested that it be put on the agenda of this session. Namely, this matter, the way we propose legislation has been regulated by a few members in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and in the Law on the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and everything else has been regulated by sublaws, the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly and the Rules of Procedure of the Government. The assembly also voted in favour of a resolution on legislative policy. However, neither the government as a legislator nor the ruling majority in the Assembly respect this Resolution and there are no sanctions that would force the majority to respect the law-making process. That is why we have proposed, because there are a whole series of negative phenomena in the work and the legislators and the Assembly in the adoption of the law. The largest number of laws was passed by emergency procedure in the previous term. There is a lack of public debate before the proposed and passed laws, and even when a public debate is conducted, it often does not include those most interested in the application of these laws. It then happens very often that the law stipulates that it should enter into force within eight days of the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger", as provided for by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, to enter into force only in exceptional cases earlier, or within less than eight days. This is where it became almost a rule. Then, they are not delivered in addition to the draft laws and proposals for sublegal acts so that MPs have insight into the comprehensive solution proposed by the Proposer. All these shortcomings have affected us to draw up a proposal for this law to propose that it be put on the agenda and adopted by this Assembly in order to introduce order in the law-making process, in order to create conditions for transparent law-making and for public inclusion in law-making, because when citizens and other entities who are to apply the law are to be introduced into the process of adoption and in public debate, such a law is subsequently implemented.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52274	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned one, voted 131 MPs for – ten. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the point of the draft law supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52275	Thank you. Our parliamentary group also proposed that a law be passed on the addition of the Law on Local Self-Government. The point is to propose to be a member of the 20th. The Law on Local Self-Government is complemented by adding point 16a after point 16a – editing and providing for scholarship of students and students. It is essential to place local self-government in the power to regulate and ensure the scholarship of students and students. We all know the difficult situation of education and the difficult material situation and educational workers and students. This government did not find a second option to fill the budget, but the biggest source to fill the deficits is to reduce pensions and salaries precisely to those educators and parents who educate students and students, and because of the difficult situation, there is not enough resources to fund students and students who achieve good results and who can be trained in good experts. Since local self-government is constantly in direct contact with citizens and has more insight into all their problems, they are trying to help students and students who are worse materially able to finish their education. However, since there is no legal basis to scholarship students and students and when they allocate funds for these purposes, the revision declares this a violation, they are going through various types of aid. By passing this addition to the Law on Local Self-Government, they would give legal basis to local self-government to legally grant students and students from their territory. This would also help local self-governments to bring the criteria of justice and justice, to help students and students who are in a difficult material state, and in some ways they would oblige young people who receive scholarships to stay at school both in the territory and local self-government and in Serbia, because we are witnesses that they are increasingly difficult to have school opportunities, and even when they are able to finish schools, young experts leave Serbia very quickly and we are left without young staff.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52276	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who has abstention for nine, and there is no one who has ever voted 135 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Branka Karavidic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a draft law amending the Law on Public Information and Media. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52277	Thank you. The European Commission's report on the situation in Serbian media a few months ago is devastating. The adoption of a set of media laws in August 2014, unfortunately, is the only success of this government in the field of media recognition by the European Commission. The implementation of reform media laws is hardly cared for by anyone, and at least the competent ministry and Minister Tasovac. There is no progress in applying the Public Information Act and the media. The obligation to enroll all directly or indirectly owners, who own more than 5% of the shares in the ownership structure, by August 2015. Unless it is known who is the ultimate media owner, the effort towards implementing media reforms is unthinked. So we haven't moved since August 2014. Does it matter to us that we know who the media owners are? All those who in some way influence the formation of our opinion. I mean not only those who are obliged to enroll in the register with more than 5% share in the ownership structure, but also those who own less than 5% of the stake, and who exercise effective control over editorial policy, as well as sources of funding for more media. The practice, unfortunately, has shown that there are such cases. My proposal, on behalf of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, the ZZS change of the Law on Public Information and Media, provides that all owners must be written directly or indirectly, regardless of the level of shares in founding capital. In this way, we will ensure transparency of the ownership structure, which will help restore citizens' confidence in the media, while reducing the possibility of possible abuses or illicit influences on the media. I would remind you that one of the Constitutions guaranteed rights and the right to inform, but also property relations, as well as control the legality of the availability of legal persons, and for these reasons I call on you to support this proposal to amend this law on the agenda of this session, primarily in the interests of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52278	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 133 of the total attendance of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Mr Blagoja Bradic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Safety and Health at Work, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 21 December 2015. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52279	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I suggested on behalf of my parliamentary group that we amend the Safety and Health Act at work for the following reasons. The Act on Safety and Health at Work adopted in 2015 and novembered in 2015 contains a series of shortcomings, indeterminateness and systemicly contradictory solutions, both formal legal character and material legal content, conflicting norms in relation to individual system and sectoral laws, particularly in relation to the Health Protection Act. The rights, obligations and liability of the employer are largely undefined, vague and contradictory, which calls into question the law-defined framework and the objective of this law itself in terms of its effective application. As a crucial lack of this law, we stress the legitimate absence of the service of medical work, with particular emphasis on the basic medical service in the home of health, which we believe must be respected by Article 95. The health care law. Medicine deals with preventive activity in the field of safety of health at work. This is of great importance. The work of the Department of Medicine has been given in the Health Protection Act in Article 124, and we suggest that it be complemented and that it applies to institutions for medical work at the provincial and regional level at university centres in Novi Sad, Nis, Kragujevac. They should monitor and study working conditions, plan, organise, implement and evolve measures, activities and procedures in the field of health protection at work, coordinate the work of health care institutions in the field of health and safety at work for the regions where it was established, participate in the establishment of a unique methodology and procedure in programming, planning and implementation of preventive protection measures for workers, carry out professional medical procedures, activities in relation to the establishment of jobs, propose and conduct preventive medical examinations of the working-age population, carry out prior examinations of persons with factors for difficult employment, etc. They should be financed from the budget, from the Fund of Mandatory Health Insurance, by employers and by individuals. The general view is that changes in the positive rules are necessary to ensure the functioning, preservation and development of work, resources and institutions of labour, through the financing of certain services, preventive healthcare and other primary healthcare services. With regard to this, there is a proposal for individual solutions to this bill, and I ask you to think and accept so that we can put this on the agenda and discuss it. We believe that a specialist in medicine works best knows professional relations and disability at work and has insight into health risks because he is in direct contact with jobs and in time can recognise and prevent initial health disorders.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52280	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Mr Blagoja Bradic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point - Proposal for a law supplementing the Health Insurance Act. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52281	Thank you. For who knows which time, at the beginning of each session of the regular session, I propose to the National Assembly to accept the proposal and to put into the agenda a proposal to amend the Health Insurance Act, and that of Article 41 relating to dental health care. Article 41 says that this type of service can, through the Fund’s resources, be under 18, students and high school students until 26 years of age, pregnant women and certain types of patients who have specific diseases, but would not now count them. It is in the total population of two million and 600,000 inhabitants. What I'm proposing is to amend Article 41 of the Law and give citizens the right and opportunity, and these are about 4.5 million who are able to work, which pay contributions to compulsory health insurance, to have the same rights as these two million and 600,000 citizens of Serbia. I note, respected colleagues and colleagues, that the RFO is financed by the fact that the working age population of the Republic of Serbia is paying contributions, and the provisions of this member have been wronged because they are the only ones who do not have the right to dental health care. Every time I presented this proposal, I appealed, first of all, to fellow Members of the Doctors, to accept my proposal for the reason why it did not require the increase of working-contracted doctors and nurses in primary health care organisations, or to seek additional resources, because what was in the budget for RFZO was an excess of funds in the position – dental health care. Since the prime minister and some members of the government are in good shape, I suggest that we allow citizens of Serbia dental protection, and I ask you to reconsider and accept my proposal once more, in order to amend Article 41. The Health Insurance Act and allowed all Serbian citizens to have the right to repair their teeth and treat their mouth disease via the RFZO. I hope, this time, that the fellow doctors, whom there is plenty in this room, will accept my proposal and, on behalf of Hippocrates' oath, which they have taken and committed to protecting the health of Serbian citizens, accept my proposal and vote positively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52282	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – one, the abstentioned – there is no vote, not a 131 MP. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Mr Blagoja Bradic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be supplemented by a point - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act, twice. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52283	The Health Protection Act, as system law, the area of specialisation and rope specialisation, is not regulated in a way that allows an adequate system and, from the point of view of health care, a sustainable system. The years of experience in law enforcement shows that the law is indiscrepancy with practice in relation to the real needs of our health care system. The specialisation models and the specialisation ropes currently in place in our legal and sublegal regulation do not allow the implementation of the principles on which the healthcare system rests: the principle of access to healthcare, the principle of health care justice, the principle of comprehensive health care, the principle of continuity of health care, the principle of continuous improvement of quality of health care and the principle of health care efficiency. Article 184. The Health Protection Act, which states that in the light of the conditions that a health worker and a health associate must fulfil communally in order to be able to improve professionally, to obtain specialisation because the condition laid down that a traineeship has been completed and passed a professional exam, unless otherwise regulated by this law. We believe that adding conditions in terms of two years of work experience and logical and necessary additional conditions for the possibility of specialisation. In other words, the proposed level requires that a healthcare worker who is employed indefinitely after two years of internships acquire the possibility of competing for a specialisation programme. What was changed more than a year ago, when specializations are at stake, is the possibility that even without employment in a work organisation, by declaring a specialisation deficit by the health minister, specialisation is obtained. What I suggest on behalf of my parliamentary group is that the first way back specialization, which was in the ordinary procedure before the amendments to this law, is that you have to have two years of working experience, in order to get regular specialization. Secondly, that deficit specializations can be obtained, but by making the company, i.e. A medical facility that has a deficit in a specialist staff has to hire a doctor first, and only then give him a deficit specialization. And the third and most important thing that funding goes through the funds of the Republic of Serbia, because the independent funding of specialists, we give specializations to those who can pay for specialization, not to those who are the best and who need to finish specialization. Please, especially fellow doctors, think again and support my proposal to correct this injustice against young colleagues who need to finish specialization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52284	Thank you. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for nine, v—one, abstention—one. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the proposal. Ambassador Blagoja Bradic suggested that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act. Here you go. Second time, I mean by the same name, same date.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52285	Thank you, Madam Chairman. In accordance with the provisions of the Health Protection Act, as a system law, social care for health under equal conditions in the territory of the Republic is achieved by providing health care, a group of people exposed to an increased risk of disease, the health care of a person in relation to prevention, prevention, early detection and treatment of diseases of greater socio-medical importance, as well as the health protection of a socially endangered population, and that health care covers a population of 16 categories. In this part of the law, there is a shortage, since it does not cover the unemployed working population, farmers and the informal sector aged 15 to 65. For these reasons, starting from the relevant constitutional principles of the Republic of Serbia, as a state of social justice and equal rights and equal access to the health care system, it is necessary to extend the circle of persons covering health care, particularly unemployed persons, unemployed working age, farmers, as well as persons employed in the informal sector from 15 to 65 years of age. An existing legal solution on social care at employer level provides that the employer organises and provides from his means the health care of employees to create conditions for health-responsibility and health protection at the workplace, which includes, among other things, the implementation of measures to prevent and early detection of occupational diseases, diseases related to work and prevention of injuries to... As well as preventive checks of employees, previous, periodic, control and targeted checks, depending on gender, age and working conditions, as well as the occurrence of occupational diseases, work injuries and chronic diseases. We believe that such a solution is dysfunctional, difficult to implement, and that this aspect of social health care should be removed from the employer's level at the level of medical work. Also, in the opinion of the Proposer, i.e. us, we need to intervene on Article 102. The law, so that the Institute, starting from the fact that it is a health institution that performs primary health work and conducts health care for individual population groups, i.e. health work in a particular area of health care, would establish them as the Institute for the Health Protection of Workers of Specific Works, such as the Railways, the MUPi Air Force. As for the territorial principle of organisation of health care, we believe it is necessary to standardise that the city in which the university is based can establish an institute for the territory of the statistical region. This achieves a more efficient system of organisation of health institutions and the legal role of these institutions. I ask my colleagues to accept my proposal so that we can discuss this law and amend this proposed provision.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52286	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – one, abstention – no one voted 133 MPs. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Blagoja Bradić suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Information and Media Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52287	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I have proposed that we review the two laws again, this is the proposal for a law on information and media and a proposal for a law on public media services. I remind you first of all that the right to be informed, as one of the fundamental human rights guaranteed by the Constitution, means that everyone has the right to be informed in full, complete and timely of matters of public importance. Public interest in the field of public information cannot be achieved exclusively through the formation of public services, at national and regional level, because such an asymmetric definition of public interest makes it impossible to form public services at regional level. I remind the citizens of Serbia that more than a year ago, by voting these two laws abolished the possibility and the right of local self-government to finance from their regional funds. local public services. There are only two public services left, which is RTS and TV with their two TV and three radio programs. What was passed by this law is that the subscription would be up to 500 dinars, what is the current situation that the subscription is 150 dinars and the salary is related to the number of electricity. What Serbian citizens need to know is that with these 150 dinars that we will all pay as a tax for public media services in the Republic of Serbia and allocate six billion in the republican budget, to finance RTS and RTS. The bill we have proposed is that under Sava and Danube citizens have the same rights as citizens in Belgrade and Vojvodina, i.e. that they have their own regional public service which would also be financed as is financed by TV i.e. that 70% of the funds collected and 70% of the funds allocated from the budget go to finance Serbia's radio television, as we suggested calling it public service, and 30% would go to finance RTS as a central public service, which should exist. Thus, Serbian citizens under Sava and Danube would have the opportunity to be timely informed of what is very interesting to them, which is the situation in their local community. This is how we're all forced. We have the only possibility of informing through public media services in the region's chronicle, I will repeat Nis as a city that has almost no more than 300,000 inhabitants, has information from its territory in the region's chronicle for no more than 15-20 seconds. Dear colleagues, remember how many of your local communities are represented in the region's chronicles and when news comes from your territory. Usually, these are black chronicles, not what Serbian citizens are supposed to raise money for, especially those under Sava and Danube.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52288	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, not 135 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Blagoja Bradic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Media Services. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52289	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I'll pick up where I left off. In addition to the need for local community information, it is also necessary to allow national minorities to have the same rights as the national minority in Vojvodina. Yes, you have that national minorities in Vojvodina have their own programming scheme, which is represented in TV, and national minorities under Sava and Danube do not have that option, because they do not have a regional, i.e. public media service under Sava and Danube. They have the legal opportunity to form a media service in their native language and then we have one illogicality – you have national minorities under Sava and Danube that can form a public media service for their needs, and Serbian citizens, Serbian nationalities, below Sava and Danube, do not have that possibility. I don't think that's right and it's not right for citizens who have the same obligations, but the law that we've passed, these two media laws, they don't have the same rights. So I ask you, dear colleagues and colleagues, to reconsider and give your support to my proposal, so that in a assembly debate, we can amend these laws and allow citizens under Sava and Danube to have the right to information. What is happening now is that citizens under Sava and Danube, if they want to have information and what is happening in their local community, have to pay additionally from the city budgets, and that city budgets that are being filled, as a rule, 60, 65, up to 70 percent, and they have to finance other activities that they could finance, finance private media, to have information, both from their local congregations and about their currents of communal nature and cultural nature in their territory. I'm asking you, colleagues, to reconsider. This is not a political issue, this is a question of Serbian citizens and their rights and obligations. We are delegated here to protect their interests and I don't know how you'll be able to explain in the campaign why there are no local media services, why they pay public media services, and they don't have the same rights as the citizens of Belgrade and the citizens of Vojvodina? It's a little harder to explain. It is not right that citizens do not have the same rights in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, so once again I ask you to support my proposal. Please determine the quorum before the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52290	I'm putting it to a vote. (Blagoje Bradić, from the place: I want to establish the quorum. Quorum? Here, we'll see him now, along the way. I'm closing the vote. For—six, against—two abstentions—no one voted 136, and we will also establish the quorum at the request of the Messenger Blago Bradic, and I will declare it on that basis, or repeat the vote. Please confirm the quorum. We have a quorum, 127 MPs. I find that the Assembly has a quorum and has not accepted this proposal. National MP Blagoja Bradic suggested that the agenda be supplemented by the item – Proposal for a Law amending the Health Insurance Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52291	Madam Chairman, I have proposed that the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Security be amended. The Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance was amended on 1 August 2014. That law reduced health insurance rates at the expense of increasing pension insurance contributions, with a reason, if you remember then Finance Minister Mr Krstic, that there are other sources of funding in the healthcare sector and that large savings can be made. At that time, we also voted in favour of health insurance, which fills the budget of the Republic Fund from 12.2%, and we increased the pension from 24 to 26, as Minister Krstic said, to reduce the doping of regular pension payments from the budget by about 300 million, the rate of this 2% reduction in the position of the Republic Fund's budget. What did that look like in numbers? By 2014, the Republican Health Insurance Fund had a budget of 230 billion dinars, which is over two billion and 100m euros. After this reduction, the planned budget for 2015 and 2016 is 215 billion dinars, down over 10%. What is interesting, in the real financing of the Republic Health Insurance Fund, is the reduction from 156 billion, 156.9 billion dinars, down to 125.3 billion dinars by 2014. I see that we have the same number of services provided by Serbian health care through the Republic Health Insurance Fund and the same number of employees of doctors who are financed, whose salaries are financed from this. What is still interesting, in addition to these reductions, the Republic Fund is obliged to comply with Article 22. The Health Insurance Act pays more than 10.5 billion dinars per article 22 for all those for whom the Republic is obliged to pay contributions to health insurance, which are unemployed, socially endangered, so as not to list in order. What is foreseen in the republican budget is about 600 million dinars, so please consider this proposal and return the money to treat Serbian citizens from retirement to...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52292	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - nine, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, there is no vote of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Blagoja Bradic proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. Here, Blagoje Bradić has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52293	Thank you. According to article 151 so far. The Health Insurance Act, the elected physician, shall organise and implement measures to preserve and improve the health of the insured persons, detect and curb the risk factors for disease, carry out preventive checks, measures and procedures, including health training established as the right of compulsory health insurance. We believe that the Department of Medicine should do extremely, quote the provisions of the Law, carry out preventive systematic checks on the basis of compulsory health insurance for the employed and unemployed working age population, farmers and informal sector, aged 15 to 65, i.e. these tasks are carried out by a specialist in medical work in the competent health care institution, and reports with the results of the examination must be delivered to the selected physician. This solution is to comply with the provisions of the Health Protection Act, in particular Article 95, according to which: 1st basic medical service at home health care deals with preventive activity if there is no institution in its territory. We also cite that the basic health care service in the home of health care should carry out tasks to preserve and improve health, prevent early detection and treatment of diseases related to work, propose and carry out preventive medical examinations, carry out prior examinations of persons with impaired employability factors, carry out professional orientation and professional selection, conduct health education of a working age population between 15 and 65 years of age, carry out professional medical procedures and activities in relation to job identification with increased risk, participates in the organisation of first aid, rescue and evacuation in case of injuries of employees or haemaria. The proposed changes will create conditions for the creation of a higher degree of health care and more effective preventive health care of individual categories of insurance. In addition, as already stated, these amendments bring two system laws in line, thus achieving the coherence of the legal system in the field of health insurance and health care, and please, dear colleagues and colleagues, to support my proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52294	Thank you. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – eight, against – five, with abstentions, 135 MPs did not vote. He finds that the Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Blagoja Bradic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the definition of public interest and specific procedures for the expropriation and issue of a building permit for the realisation of the "Belgrade on Water" project. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52295	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, there are two reasons why I proposed to the Assembly to take into consideration the law that was passed more than a year ago. Under one, the law, according to the lawyers, is anti-constitutional, because it harshly penetrates the Constitution guaranteeing the right of private property. The decision of the assembly majority has provided conditions and the possibility for the Republic of Serbia and the City of Belgrade to expropriate private property in the territory of the City of Belgrade, which is called "Savaski Plato", that is next to the old railway station, means to buy it, and that it gives the private investor without a public transparent tender for residential business buildings of 300 apartments and several business spaces. I'm not going to comment on how it's the job of the century to give someone a fully cleared and equipped location that he doesn't buy at a public competition, but to rent it for 99 years, where the state, which gave land, municipal infrastructure, the necessary documentation and permits, gets fantastic, as announced, 30% of the profits achieved, which is far from the sales price of the apartments achieved. What is interesting for the citizens of Serbia and especially for the citizens of Nis, is that all of this is financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget, under the password that the construction of two residential business blocks with 300 apartments, one-room, as said, two-room, three-room, and now I see from the media that there is also a penthouse, will be a driver of economic growth in Serbia and employ at least 20,000 workers. According to me and my parliamentary group, together for Serbia, the money from the budget was to be used for energy efficiency, the construction of the irrigation system, so that instead of the current 200,000 hectares under irrigation had one million hectares, to increase the agrarian budget, to enter the biomass production project to replace the import of special fuels, into the mining development strategy so that mining would become profitable and a driver of economic growth, not to clear up a part of our capital and municipal and infrastructure equipment so that someone could make profits. I think it's much better to use budget money to create real jobs and encourage economic growth than to use infrastructure equipment for future private parcels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52296	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – eight, against – two, with abstentions, there is no vote of 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Dear MPs, in accordance with Article 101(2), I hereby set a break of up to 15.00 hours. Please come at 15.00 hours, to determine the agenda. [[after breaks]] Dear People's MPs, in order for us to proceed with the vote, we need to determine the quorum. Please insert your cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 131 MPs are present in the hall and that there are conditions for decision-making, and we have several invisible MPs. The Committee on Culture and Information of the National Assembly pursuant to Article 159(2). The Rules of Procedure proposed to withdraw from the proposed agenda the 9th item of the agenda – the list of candidates for the selection of members of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, which the Committee submitted to the National Assembly on 4 February 2016. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 129, v – five, abstentions – no, not one MP voted. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Igor Bečić under Article 92(2). Paragraphs 2 and 192, 193 and 195. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to carry out a joint, principled single search on: Proposal for a law on employees in autonomous provinces and units of local self-government; Proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provisions of Article 52(1) of Article 29(1), Article 30(2) and Article 50(1) of Article 50(1) of the Privatisation Act "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" No. 83/2014; 46/2015. and 112/2015, which was submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives of the National Assembly; Proposal for a decision on the election of judges elected for the first time at a judicial office; Proposal for a decision on the termination of the office of President of the First Fundamental Court in Belgrade, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government of the National Assembly; Proposal for a decision on the termination of the office of President of the Criminal Court in Kruševec, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government of the National Assembly; Proposal for a decision on the termination of the position of President of the Criminal Court in Jagodina, who submitted to the Committee of Justice; Proposal for a decision on amendments to the draft draft draft draft draft draft draft draft of the Presidents and the Presidents of the Committee for the Republic of the Republic of Election Commission, which submitted the National Assembly, the National Assembly for the Presidents; Does MP Igor Becic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 against – three abstentions – no, four MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. I'm putting on a vote on a draft agenda in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 134, v – five abstentions – no, no, two MPs voted. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016, in general. Dn e v n ir e d: 1. Proposal for a law on employees in autonomous provinces and units of local self-government; 2. Proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provisions of Article 52(1) of Article 29(1) of Article 30(2) and Article 50(2) of Article 50(1) of the Privatisation Act "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" No. 83/2014; 46/2015. and 112/2015; 3. Proposal for a decision on the selection of judges who are first elected to the judicial office; 4. Proposal for a decision to relieve the President of the First Basic Court in Belgrade; 5. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the office of President of the Criminal Court in Kruševec; 6. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the term of office of President of the Criminal Court in Jagodina, which was submitted by the committee responsible; 7. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on resolutions, appointment of members and alternate members of the Republic Election Commission; 8. List of candidates for the selection of members of the Board of Regulatory Body for Electronic Media; 9. Proposal for a decision on the selection of the President, Vice-President and Members of the Management Board of the Regulatory Agency for Electronic Communications and Postal Services; 10. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the role of members of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of the public funds of the National Assembly. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. Honorable Members of the People in agreement with Article 27 and Article 87, pages 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18 hours because of the need to pass the act from the agenda of this session. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I invite you to attend today's session: Dr Kori Udovici, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Dr Rasim Ljajic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, he will come if necessary, Natalija Pavlovic Šiniković and Saša Mogić, Assistant Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government and other co-workers, as well as Vesna Janjic, an independent adviser at the High Council of the judiciary. I am asking MPs' groups if they have not already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(2) of Article 192(2), Article 192(2) and Article 2(2) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, 193 and 195. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly I open a joint principle and uniform search on: Proposal for a Law on Employees in Autonomous Areas and Units of Local Self-Government; Proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provisions of Article 52(1) of Article 29(1), Article 30(2) and Article 50(2) of Rule 2(1) of the Privatisation Act of the ‘Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia’ No. 83/2014; 46/2015. and 112/2015, Proposal for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to a judicial office, who has submitted the High Council of the Court; Proposal for a decision to dismiss the office of President of the First Basic Court in Belgrade; Proposal for a decision to suspend the office of President of the Criminal Court in Kruševec; Proposal for a decision to suspend the office of President of the Criminal Court in Jagodina; Proposal for a decision on amendments to the Decision on discharge, appointment of members and alternate members of the Republic of Election Commission; List of candidates for the selection of members of the Council of the Regulatory Body for the Electronic Media; Proposal for a decision to elect a President, vice-president and members of the Management Board of the Regulatory Agency for Electronic Communications and Postal Services and a proposal for a decision to suspend the role of members of the Republic of the Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, which has been submitted by the Committee for Finance, the Republic budget and control of the spending of the National Assembly. Do the representatives of the Proposer, Minister Kori Udovicki, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52298	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear MPs and MPs, ladies and gentlemen, it is my real pleasure to have the opportunity to explain to you today another systematic and long-awaited law – a bill on employees in autonomous provinces and units of local self-government. The aim of this law is, above all, to create conditions for original and entrusted transactions in units of local self-government and autonomous provinces to be carried out in a professional, impartial, politically neutral manner, and in particular to make them ethical. In one word, the aim of this law is to professionalise and depolitise the administration at the local and regional level. This would, of course, achieve greater efficiency, functionality and efficiency of these administrations. Ladies and gentlemen, I have no illusions about professionalizing employees in the state adoption of one law is not enough. However, it is a necessary first step. The law lays down strict rules on conditions that must be met so that someone can become an official, i.e. A professional at the administration, as well as a process that checks and maintains these conditions. This first step is politically difficult, so much so that it has been delayed many times in previous years, even when similar forms of law have already been prepared. In fact, for setting up employment in local self-government and province units, it has been waiting 25 years. Since 1991, at the workplace of these employees, the Labour Relations Act has been applied accordingly, in state bodies, which has not even been written for local needs. In all these 25 years, the law written for state authorities has been applied accordingly, even now that its basic purpose has been overcome since 2006, by applying much more modern and functional law, passed for state authorities, the Law on civil servants and tenants. The law I present to you today is this law, which applies on a republican level, only to further improve and complete its solutions. The new law, which would professionalise the local administration, has actually been active since 2009 and one earlier less ambitious version of this law was already in the Assembly in 2012, but has not been discussed before the Assembly was disbanded. So, in addition to having to pass the law, and as I said, it's not easy, it takes serious investment and capacity development to fully and consistently apply to the professionalisation of the administration. It is necessary to establish the capacity of the state to invest in and to develop and manage its staff, and otherwise, such a law can also be converted into its opposite, to the protection of employees whose work and quality do not necessarily meet the needs of good performance. This law is therefore accompanied by appropriate preparations for its application and I will discuss these preparations at the end of my presentation. The basic solutions on which this law is based are, firstly, to regulate all relevant issues, both at local and regional level, as well as the subsequent application in urban municipalities, to determine the working-legal position and all persons who exercise the rights, duties and responsibilities of the province and local self-government units, which means that the law applies to officials, officials are the only professionals, to the tenants and officials, to establish an advanced and functional service system in the name of the official system at the state level, as I have already mentioned, as well as to encourage and improve the function of human resources management, and especially the training of employees. The principles of the official system that is being established here are based on standards adopted in modern societies, especially in the European administrative space. It is, above all, that a transparent competition procedure is being established, that it extends and defines employment criteria, that more adequate system of calling, better define jobs, that opportunities are developed for career advancement, monitoring and evaluating the results of work and professional training. This should also be added to the need for the introduction of modern mechanisms, good management through the special arrangement of the position of rights and the duties of officials in the position. The officers are in position as executives, so to speak a simpler language. This law applies to employees of bodies, as well as to professional services and special organisations, but also to other diverse forms, which carry out the tasks of administrations at local and regional level, directorships, services, offices, centres. As a result, the law does not apply and thus states companies, businesses, institutions, public agencies, funds and foundations, because their nature does not correspond to the affairs of the administration in this regard. An employer, an employee who covers this bill is an AP or a unit of local self-government. It has the authority and the obligation to exercise the rights and responsibilities of the employer for the officials, that is, the Assembly, or one of its working bodies, and for the officials in office, it makes the circuit government, or the municipal or city council, and for the officials in office, they act as employer for the officials and the tenants. The law refers to those officials, elected, appointed and appointed persons, other than officials in a position, who, according to a special regulation, have an obligation or use the possibility to establish a working relationship, or to perform functions from a working relationship. For example, it is the president of the municipality or the mayor and their deputies, they have an obligation, and the president of the assembly and members of the municipal council have the opportunity to establish a working relationship. The law does not provide for a specific newspaper with regard to the basis for the termination of functions and rights after termination of office, so that the law provides for the possibility of receiving a three-month payment fee at the end of the post. The posts of officials shall be divided into officials in office and officials working in executive posts. The IA Regulation will, in particular, regulate the criteria for the classification of posts and the criteria for the description of the posts of officials, taking into account the language and letters of national minorities, as specific conditions for the performance of jobs in those posts, which are essential for the exercise of the rights of citizens, the official use of language and letters of national minorities. In the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, the jobs that become positions are the following – Undersecretary of the Regional Secretariat, Assistant Secretary at the Regional Secretariat, Assistant Director of the Regional Special Administrative Organisation, Director and Assistant Director of Service and Administration established by the Regional Government and Assistant Secretary of the Regional Government. In units of local self-government and urban municipalities, jobs that become positions are the head of municipal or city administration, i.e. the head of the administration of the city municipality and their deputies. In the city of Belgrade, if the city administration is organised as a single body, the posts are the jobs of the city's head of city administration, its deputies, the secretary of the Belgrade City Administration Secretariat and the Undersecretary of the Secretariat. In order to ensure one of the most important conditions for the establishment of a professional and depolated administration, the law in a detailed way regulates all issues relating to the competition procedure and conditions for the positioning of officials for a period of five years. Its powers and duties, the grounds for termination of work in the position and the consequences of the termination of work in the event that there are no officials in office or unable to perform his duties for more than 30 days, may be laid down by the performer of the duties of officials in the order of officials who meet and the necessary conditions. The law also regulates the system of calling for executive posts, as well as the basic conditions for doing business in each of the titles. These calls are an independent consultant, advisor, junior advisor, associate and junior associate and senior referent, referent, junior referent, for which secondary vocational education is required. Among the advisory professions there is one less calling than the state level, it is a senior adviser, and given that almost half of the employees in all local self-government units with secondary education are expected to make a more subtle distinction between employees with medium-level expertise rather than at the republican level, and this is the introduction of a higher reference, which is not available on the state level. Due to the unfavourable personnel structure, the transitional provisions of the law provide for an exception, so that for a period of no more than four years, a younger adviser and a younger associate of employees who has a lower education than required can be deployed for a period of at least five or four years in the same administration. This gives us time to build on the staff capacity of local self-government to meet the standards set by the law. The law envisions the adoption of a staff plan by the Assembly, together with a decision on the budget for next year. This represents another example of improving the management and planning of human resources, as the staff plan shows the needs for employees in numbers and structures, as well as the number of trainees needed, as well as employees at specific times in the office of the elected person. The law pays particular attention to the process of filling the job, as well as to regulating the internal and public competition, with the government making the regulation even more detailed on this process and other issues of importance for the implementation of the competition. In particular, it is regulated to conduct a public competition to place officials in office because it is the only way to place them in a position. These provisions reflect the intention of the competition process to be maximum objective in order to employ the best candidates. It is also of particular interest that the law lays down the basis for establishing a single system of professional training of Serbian officials. Only by systematic and dedicated effort and by investing in the development of personnel will we be able to overcome weaknesses in the work of units of local self-government, which are primarily derived from insufficient personnel capacity. Programmes, training in all areas of operation of local self-government units, which will be financed from both the republican and local budgets, are foreseen. The need for professional training, as well as mandatory elements of the programme, will propose a new expert training advice. It will also determine the conditions for accreditation of the trainers and monitor their effects. The Council is set up on a parity principle with four members appointed by the Government and four members who are representatives on a proposal for a permanent conference of cities and municipalities. The resolution ministries propose general training programmes in the areas of their work, and specific programmes propose units of local self-government in accordance with their specific needs. In particular, the law points out human resources management tasks, and among them are the most significant – the preparation of the proposal for a staff plan, the organisation of professional training of officials, the assessment of the effects of the training carried out, the analysis of the needs for training and the additional education of each staff member, the preparation of the proposal for an annual programme of professional training of officials and the analysis of the results and the monitoring of the effects of the evaluation of officials. In the context of the personnel records, it is also important to say, it is envisaged to enter data on the language of the employee, the language in which education is acquired, as well as information on nationality. This information on the mother tongue and nationality shall be entered in the personnel records only with the written consent of the employee and without obligation to declare the employee. For one of the most significant elements of the official system, evaluation and advancement, the law provides for the application of the rules governing these issues to civil servants, meaning at the state level. This solution is intended not because the evaluation of civil servants is ideal, but because, in the near future, it is expected to improve on the basis of experience so far, and to allow automatic application and best practice at local level. The law answers the question – who conducts the evaluation? The official shall be assessed by the head of the circuit body, i.e. the head of the local administration, on the basis of a proposal from the direct manager. The official in office in the province is assessed by the official who runs the authorities and, at the local level, by the mayor, the mayor, or the president of the municipality, at the local level of the Head of Administration and Deputy Chief of Staff. In particular, the issue of disciplinary responsibility, disciplinary procedure and the type of violation of the duties of officials has been regulated. A division of easier and more serious violations of duty has been retained, with the provision that a disciplinary commission is required for serious violations of duty. In addition to disciplinary responsibility, there is a particularly regulated basis for the termination of a working relationship, which cannot be arbitrarily, including the termination of a working relationship under a recommended resolution recommendation issued by the Anti-Corruption Agency. As a special newspaper, the law provides for the establishment of an appeal commission to decide on the complaints of officials, as well as participants in an internal or public competition. The Board of Appeal is educated by the municipal, city, or city council, and two or more units of local self-government can jointly educate the Board of Appeal. The law also introduces fines for violations ranging from 50 to 150 thousand dinars, mainly for officials in office unless some of the key provisions of this law are complied with. The preparation of this law was carried out through a long and wide consulting process, primarily with units of local self-government through the organisation of round tables, workshops and continued direct co-operation with a permanent conference of cities and municipalities. As I said at the beginning of this presentation, professionalizing the administration is not enough to pass the law. Even implementing only his letters requires preparation and adaptation. But if we want to achieve his intention to build a more efficient, more functional and efficient administration, it takes years of investment to build a system that can continuously improve human resources on the one hand, and on the other hand, to carry out their checks. For these reasons, for starters, it is envisaged to be applied from 1 December 2016. Only those provisions necessary to prepare a system of professional training and human resources management, as well as the establishment of appeal committees, have been taken from this point in time to come into force as soon as the law enters into force. During this period, we will rely on support for the implementation of the law, which we have prepared in good time with partners from the EU, the Council of Europe, with the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities, which will allow us to prepare models of all necessary acts necessary for units of local self-government to implement this law, then, prepare four training programmes, activities to establish a modern system of human resources management, a greater number of joint workshops and direct work in at least 20 units of local self-government, which will be as pilots for all self-government and much more. Dear MPs and MPs, I am convinced that this law, its systematic preparation and its systematic implementation through dedicated work, is the only way to ensure the success of all units of local self-government in an effort to better respond to the needs of their citizens, and in particular to prepare for those tasks that await them right now in front of them in the process of joining the Republic of Serbia. For all this, I invite you to support this legal project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52299	Thank you. The word has been given by the MP's chief of Parliament, Mr Balint Pastor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52300	Mr. Chairman, Madam Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is my great pleasure that this is the most likely final draft law that adopts this assembly of the National Assembly, it is not my pleasure that it is the last law, but I am pleased that we will still succeed in this assembly to adopt this bill. I would like to begin by congratulating the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government on this finale. Practically, the last three proposals come from your ministry, Mrs Udovicki, and it really is a serious finish, because here, before the disbanding of the National Assembly, parliament will adopt not only the Law on the Payment System and the Law on General Administrative Procedure, but also a bill on employees in autonomous provinces and units of local self-government. The only thing remains is a small regret, but it is my subjective thinking, which we will not be able to pass is the law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Communist Police. We think that, given the security situation, the petty thefts that are present on the ground, what we're talking about, so-called petty thefts, our legal system defines it that way, we think there are no petty thefts, there's only theft. So, given the situation, it wouldn't be bad if municipalities were allowed to form municipal police, so that the body could help the members of the MUP, i.e. The police, but it remains for the next assembly of the National Assembly. This bill is really systematically prepared. I can say that from personal experience, because we first talked about this Bill proposal in October 2014, if I'm not mistaken. And then after a few months, we talked again, and at the beginning of February this year for the third or fourth time, and based on those conversations, we also submitted some amendments, which I'll talk about a little bit later. But before I move on to the presentation, in short, of course, as it is a matter of principled search, solutions from our amendments, let me say a few sentences about the bill itself. As you said, the Civil Service Act was adopted in 2005 and since then the provisions of the Labour Relations Act in state bodies have been applied to employees in autonomous provinces and units of local self-government. The employees of these bodies, of course, deserve to have a special law, namely that in a similar manner as it is regulated for civil servants at a state, republican level, it is done in the case of regional and local officials, i.e. the undersigned. Because employees in autonomous provinces and units of local self-government remained out of reach of the 2005 Civil Service Act, these officials and tenants were unable to use some opportunities, some benefits, so to speak, which had their colleagues at a republican level in the past years. Others have been deprived of the improvements that the system carries, above all, in terms of expanding the employment criteria, calling systems, opportunities for advancement, monitoring and evaluation of the results of work and professional training. This is why it is important, among other things, that the National Assembly now discusses this bill and what will be completed regulatoryly in the sense that both province and local employees will be able to have these opportunities that their colleagues have at the republican level. The draft law regulates the status of employees by applying the same principles that regulate the position of civil servants, which we consider to be natural. So it's about the same system, the kind of job for the employees, the filling of jobs, professional training and training, the grading of employees. The paper is also the introduction of detailed arrangements for competitive recruitment procedures and the obligation to evaluate officials, which is good for officials themselves, as well as for public administration, for the functioning of our public administration and when it comes to the regional and local level. The proposed solutions introduce a number of newspapers, including the personnel plan, which adopts the municipal or city assembly, with the aim of ensuring staff planning and restricting employment to available funds in the budget. That is why we view this bill as an element of this entire system that has been adopted in the previous days or previous weeks in the National Assembly. The special powers and powers of the authorities, services and organisations of the AP Vojvodina are prescribed by this proposal for a law, i.e. The AP Vojvodina, in accordance with this law and the Statute, regulates the principles for internal organisation and job systematization, additional criteria for the evaluation of professional training, knowledge and skills in the electoral process, professional training and training of officials, establishment, organisation and way of work of the Board of Appeal and human resources management. In that sense, we can say that this bill respects the specificities of the AP Vojvodina that are provided for by our Constitution, as well as certain laws of the Republic of Serbia. This proposal also introduces personnel records. This is not entirely a newspaper of our legal system, because this National Assembly adopted in July of last year the Law on the Register of Employees, Selected, appointed, appointed and engaged persons in the users of public funds, but this law was, of course, brought in for entirely other reasons, but there is already some record of the fact that in September of the current year, it passes to the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. I have to show satisfaction with the fact that the personnel records will contain inside themselves and information on the language in which the primary, secondary and higher education of the autonomous province or local self-government unit is acquired, as well as information on the mother tongue. In addition, staff records also contain information on the nationality of officials and deputies, of course, in accordance with the regulation governing the register of public administration staff and in accordance with the solution set out in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. These solutions are not important because we count blood cells for anyone, but because we have one clear starting point on the extent to which members of the national minorities are represented in the authorities of the state administration or in this particular case in the units of local self-government and autonomous provinces. We have talked in this esteemed home several times, in previous years, about the need to implement a constitutional provision on the proper representation of members of national minorities in the state administration and, generally, in the public sphere, in public life. Of course, there have been some shifts lately, but we think that we can systematically or systematically approach this issue only if we know what the starting point is, what is the starting point, and that's not possible if we don't have data on the representation of members of the national minorities because individual public authorities or managers of individual bodies say, so no one is obliged to declare their nationality. I've never asked my employees that, and we don't know who's pleading. Now, with respect, of course, constitutional provisions everyone will be free to declare his nationality. The second criterion or other information relating to the language in which it is acquired, basic, secondary and higher education is not sensitive in terms of the Personal Data Protection Act, and yet with a high level of security, based on these data, it can be concluded which language speaks, which national community it belongs to. These issues are important because the government of the Republic of Serbia was still in 2006, which was five calls ago, concluded on the increase in the number of members of national minorities in the state administration, and, as I said two years ago, very little was done on the plan or on the issue. We will, of course, support this bill, and once again I would like to express my satisfaction as to what will most likely be the last in this assembly of the National Assembly. Finally, I would like to say a few sentences about our amendments, because I believe that the agreement that we have reached in one sphere of the subject matter of this law significantly improves the text of the bill itself. It is good that the bill also provides that the Government will fix the criteria for the classification of posts and criteria for the description of the posts of officials, taking into account the language and letters of the national minorities, as specific conditions for taking up jobs in those jobs which are important for the exercise of citizens' rights to the official use of language and letters of national minorities. This is very important because of the consumption of members of national minorities, our citizens, the right to the official use of language. We are improving this formulation in a way to add a new position that speaks similarly about the national composition of the population and the proper representation of members of the national minorities in order to achieve full equality between the minority and the citizens who belong to the majority, and all in the context of regulating the criteria for the classification of posts and criteria for the description of the posts of officials, and similarly proposed for the tenants. We had several laws on the agenda for the previous months and years on which our amendment was adopted, which spoke of taking care of national membership, of the proper representation of members of national minorities. This is a constitutional provision which, in addition to our regulations, is foreseen by the Action Plan for the Negotiation of Chapter 23 and should be developed in this constitutional principle. I think this law is the first that, in addition to declarative findings, takes a step forward and in a practical sense brings the paper, and it is an extremely positive newspaper that should be improved, during some time, of course, it cannot be done overnight, which will make a improvement for members of the national minorities in terms of increasing their number in the bodies of the autonomous province and unit of local self-government. I was just talking about the personnel records, and one of our amendments refers to the timing. I have just said that this record is being passed under the auspices of the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government 12, 13 September of the current year and it is very important that, despite the fact that this law will only start to apply on 1 December, this national membership data will be entered in that register from 1 October of the current year. I think that the most important amendment that really means precedent in our legal system is that the regulation will lay down criteria for the selection of jobs, which will provide for the giving of the championship equally qualified, means, once again, that I underline to equally qualified candidates, members of national minorities in order to achieve the proper representation of members of national minorities and full equality between members of national minorities and citizens who belong to the majority. Why is this solution precedent? Because without such solutions as this, which we have reached agreement, it is illusory to talk about the proper representation of members of national minorities in the administration or in the public sphere in general. I would like to thank you publicly for this opportunity in this esteemed home that we have succeeded in reaching agreement on this solution. Before anyone thinks it's a solution that can raise some doubts about constitutionality, I would like to say that this Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities of the Republic of Serbia speaks of regulations, individual legal acts and measures being taken to ensure full and effective equality between members of the national minorities and members of the majority nation cannot be considered an act of discrimination, and in this sense we understand this concrete solution as well. Finally, I would like to point out, that one rather ambitious deadline is foreseen by the draft regulation law, 45 days from the date of entry into force of the law. I hope all of these regulations will be passed within the legal deadline, regardless of what will be a pre-election campaign and I would like to see our excellent co-operation continue and in the sense that we have the opportunity to see the drafts of those regulations before they are adopted. We may have some constructive suggestions for this system to be arranged as well as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52301	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52302	I thank you, Chairman. I would like, above all, to point out that the MP group of the SPS has absolutely no single problem in supporting such a legislative proposal because, in this legislative proposal, everything that involves affirmation is contained and that is a very good affirmation of expertise, professional capacity, professionalism, and the elimination of all that should be a burden or unnecessary burden for the functioning of local self-government, above all, of course, and professional services in the bodies and services of the AP. However, what needs to be encouraged, and you have done this and you are doing this law is one big step towards serious reforms when it comes to positions of office, I mean the leading places, and then those places that you have taxed, which are linked to public sector employees at the level of units of local self-government. If we are to speak frankly then we should be completely open and honest with the citizens and tell them that exactly the message from this Parliament, precisely the message of us as MPs, which should first of all, that through the discussion we are considering everything contained in this law, and later and through the vote to confirm the quality of this law, of course, and believed by the amendments that you will adopt, I suppose, is a message to the citizens that this is a really big step in the way of professionalisation when all services are at the level of units of local self-government, on the one hand, one attempt away from politicisation or partocracies, if we're going to talk about how it really is now and there's like some kind of criticism. I really need to draw attention here at the outset that I really didn't like a comment in your presence recently, so, first of all, maybe 24 hours or a little bit more at the expense of how the city authorities in Užica, since Užice was constantly potentiating the other day, as a negative example that apparently a partial job in the City Administration in Užica occurred, even thought I wasn't coming from that city where I live. But what I want to point out as a fact, first of all because of the truth, and especially because of the citizens of Užica, is the next fact that I'm sure you're familiar with. In 2013, she threatened to lose as many as 62 employees in the City Administration. It would be one huge blow to the functioning of all services, at the level of all administrations, the city administrations of Uzic City. There'd be a collapse. And you know very well, even though it wasn't in your ministry then because it was then covered by the Ministry of Justice and the State Administration, where I was, in my time, the Secretary of State, it was a struggle to find opportunities to warn those provisions of the Law on the Budgetary System on the one hand, the Treaty on the Restriction of Employment on the other hand, to find an opportunity for these people to stay in their jobs. Why? Because these people worked more than five more than six years ago and by constantly extending their employment status to a certain time. How did we find the possibility? By being able to pass through one legitimate procedure, I am delighted to have participated in this and made my contribution, along with Minister Selakovic and found the opportunity for these people to remain. Among these 62 employees, it was not seen whether they were from one party, the other party, or the third party, because they had been employees since 2006, 2007 from DS, DSS, the URS and many other parties, ultimately from the SPS, but were not seen in a part-time way. It was not seen whether it was politically oriented in the left or right direction or in any other way. So, what is apostrophe as bad for Užice I cannot accept as such and I want to point out because of the citizens of Užica, because of Užican that this really had a different approach and that in that approach the issue was settled in a fair and legitimate way. What's important for the law is the fact that in one long process of making this law, everything that came from those who need to deal with this matter has been sublimed. Sublime is all that of those who should be directly involved in the making of this law, the permanent conference of cities and municipalities, certain professional organisations, units of local self-government, representatives of the AP Vojvodina, so all those who had their participation in making such a legal proposal or legal act have found their place. What's most important is that their ideas are kind of blended in here and their ideas are made up of appropriate provisions. That's how the formation happened, how you normally did it, and what we're discussing today, the Honorable Minister. The SPS parliamentary group supports something else, it is the so-called career advancement of officers at the level of units of local self-government by very clear and precise criteria. What's most important is fair criteria. This advancement is not adhoc advancement, nor is it a verse, nor creates room for any volunteerism. This advancement involves a very good systematization that you have arranged for certain norms of this law, starting with education or professional training. To be honest, so far, the law did not know the provisions of professional training and education as it is now standardised here, and I think very well, starting with a traineeship, passing a professional exam, replacing a certain qualification potential with a judicial exam that can only be a panda, even more than that in relation to certain professional references that are very important in order to position those who need to be positioned at some level, starting from a positional level and thus obtaining a condition to do a job for which they are appointed, elected or appointed. As for the chief of city administrations as top of the pyramid, to call it, in terms of handling we have no problem, setting them up and solving the city's council. They are somehow the most responsible for the work of their city administrations. Of course they are also responsible for the evaluation and monitoring of education and professional training of all those involved in this segment, starting with referencing, lower references, advisors of younger people, etc. Not to mention that they are very clear and precisely systematiced in this law. However, when we talk about units of local self-government, there is a definition here in the law that I would ask you to pay particular attention to it based on what I don't want to express as my position, which is the recruitment of employees, i.e. the establishment of working status within the office of mayor. We in the SPS parliamentary group consider it a good solution, but it seems incomplete if we do not strengthen that same solution by quality, because in this situation the same capacity, I am speaking now, dear colleague Mogić, of Article 69 of the proposed law, because we believe that the same thing should be linked through the principle of analogy not to the argument of the contrast, but to the principle of analogy and to the cabinet of the President of the City Assembly. When I say this, I think of the City of Belgrade that has its specificities, a city where there is a third of the population of the Republic of Serbia, the city where the largest frequency of goods and people is, the city where the largest transfers of money are through the circulation of money, the city where the crucial decisions are made to function, not only the city but also the state, especially, given the fact that it relates to the authority of the President of the City of Belgrade Assembly, but since I am not from Belgrade, but from the inside, then there would be an injustice and a discriminatory relationship if this did not also apply to the cabinets of the president of the Assembly, cities and municipalities of the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia. I know, Minister, that this is unrealistic in the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia, given the status of certain local units of self-government, developed, undeveloped, especially when it comes to municipalities, but in order to avoid a principle that implies a ban on discrimination, one should consider, in some foreseeable period of time, that such a system solution should appear at the levels of local self-government, when it comes to the cabinets of the president of the city's assembly. A very good solution, dear minister, is the solution you have set in the law relating to, not only the professional potential of those who claim to be head of the city's administrations, but also the work experience, which they must already have as a work experience in order to be able to participate, or expect to be placed in such a position. Where is he hiding here, dear minister with his associates, where might the problem be? There may be a problem with the fact that we now have the Treaty on the Restriction of Employment on the one hand, on the other hand, the provision of the Law on the Budgetary System. Now let's take the example of Novi Sad, Uzice or any city. If we can't currently profile when we don't have it for individual administrations, let's say the construction and housing and communal jobs, communal-inspective activities or some other, how are we going to come up with a situation where we have a man who's going to get five years of work experience and on the basis of five years of work experience, participate in being a candidate who's going to be the city's most competent, the best for the post, the position as mayor of the city administration? As long as these restrictive provisions of the Budgetary System Act and the Employment Restriction Regulation are in place, this will be a problem for certain units of local self-government. I may have overestimated it when I mentioned the New Sad that has these capacities, and even the Uzice, but what about the Shop, what about Babušnic, what about Black Grass or any small place, where it's going to be very difficult? This problem should be considered multidimensionally because it can indeed produce certain negative consequences in practice. What is also important to point out is the fact that good solutions in this law are those solutions that relate to disciplinary responsibility, which, in my opinion, as a lawyer are placed in the procedural sense of words extremely high-quality, because now for the first time we have a disciplinary commission. This disciplinary commission must be made up of people who have the professional potential to conduct disciplinary proceedings on the one hand, on the other hand, active participation of those who are subject to disciplinary proceedings, i.e. those against whom a disciplinary procedure has been initiated, which now has the right to fully defend themselves in a disciplinary procedure, not only through a plea, but also through written defence, the involvement of attorneys, and everything that is otherwise defined by procedural laws, first of all, by the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Law of Infringements, the Law of Business Crimes, etc., etc. That's good norms. Furthermore, what is an excellent solution is the withdrawal of responsibilities of excessively disciplinary responsibility when it comes to injury, meaning this impartiality or political neutrality, that is, when employees at the level of units of local self-government express and represent political ideas. Given that the aim of this law is to oppose it, that it does not occur, then it is logical that, if they talk about criminal law, they can be incriminations, they are the reason to initiate the procedure even the termination of a working relationship against a person who behaves contrary to this code of the proposed law. It's a perfectly defined question of record of disciplinary penalties. It is a good thing that a work relationship cannot end with a written agreement, a very good solution. What do we think of in the SPS parliamentary group as a reason for attention? Article 164 of the proposed law gives clear reasons for ending the need for the work of an employee. These reasons are very precise, they are very well defined -- when the services within the unit of local self-government cease, when the unit of local self-government ceases with its legal status, but we in the parliamentary group of SPS, as well as any other MP here representing the will of citizens, would not want this member of the law to be a matrix for firing a large number of public sector employees. No one would want that in all of Serbia. Why? Because the public sector is currently under attack, both under the pressure of the IMF and under the pressure of the World Bank, our Fiscal Council, not indiscriminately, but with certain suggestions, with certain, I can even say the remarks that mean that the number of employees must be radically reduced. If it seems, it can't seem radical and can't seem in the way it's being advocated, it can't seem to be cut, it can't seem to cause social dissatisfaction, it can't seem in any case, by creating social cases on the street and cannot be done in any case a radical cut. Therefore, dear Minister, we believe in the SPS parliamentary group that it is good that you have already confirmed in the next article 165 that it will not be a matrix under which it will operate, because in the event of the termination of the unit of local self-government, the unit of local self-government that assumes the competences of those who have been abolished, the employees, hopefully all employees, hope that there will not be any kind of discrimination and we hope there will be a avoidance of any kind of adverse consequences. What is it that we think you need to correct in the existing law or bill on which I, personally, want to make my contribution on behalf of my parliamentary group to improve it? This is the provision of Article 152(2). Therefore, if the determination of the level of damage would cause disproportionate costs, the level of damage could be determined in the flat-rate amount. That's what the bill says. Please, Your Honors Minister and Mr Mogiæ, consider carefully whether this norm is practically applicable and whether it will cause certain consequences. In no case can the damage be determined on a flat-rate basis. This norm would have caused great consequences if they had left discretionary rights to anyone to determine the amount of damage. The damage can only be determined by evidence and evidence that confirms irrefutable or irrefutable facts or by artificially crafting through a skillful profession. A different way is the wrong way to determine damage. Absolutely wrong and leads to volunteerism. And he can't be allowed. You said to cut costs. Wait, if the dispute is initiated, if the defendant is allegedly a pest or has caused adverse consequences, the costs are automatically formed. Who's gonna pay those expenses? He'll pay for the local self-government again. So it's not a good reason and it's not a good argument to cut costs. We need to find a better solution, anyway. What we want to point out in the SPS Parliamentary Group, in addition to the amendments submitted, which I am confident you will well analyse and accept, because some editorial nature, technically and essentially, is the one relating to the office of the President of the City Assembly, are certain provisions, I will use 15 more seconds to support them, which is the following: firstly, that the officials do not have the right to increase the salary for the case of overtime – an excellent solution; further, that the working relationship is based on a certain time without public competition, when the law is otherwise envisaged; and what is the best solution, this is the staff plan and the rules on the systemisation of jobs in accordance with the Staff Plan. Mr. Becic, just one more sentence, please. Take this with you and how well it counts. Mr. Ogic has spoken to me. Currently, the ministry is asked to define job systematizations in filled jobs. It's not good, because we're going to lose sports inspectors, educational inspectors, directors and all the ones we need to cover by systematicization. Thank you very much. You have full support for all of this, and we will vote in favour of this law, and as far as the amendments are concerned, we hope you will adopt them. Bon appétit.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52303	Thank you. I'll count this overrun at the time of the parliamentary group. The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister, Dr. Kori Udovicki. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52304	I would first like to thank my colleague Jovanovic, who is always carefully considering our proposals and often makes constructive proposals. The proposal on employment in the cabinet of the president of the local self-government assembly will be carefully considered by the government, although we see logic. Also, this is the time of fiscal savings, and if we were able to cope so far by supporting the president of the city's or municipality's assembly from the ranks of professional service, maybe it's not yet time to spread it. We leave that question open. When it comes to five years of work experience required for the head of the local self-government unit, I would like to stress that it is five years in the profession, not that it has to be five years in the administration. And we really think that in the event that there are, it's not impossible, the local self-governments that are so devastated that they can hardly find such a candidate, then out of responsibility to the citizens in such local self-governments, we need to somehow get them to bring in officials from somewhere else at the end of the line. But it's a great responsibility for the head of a municipality. He personally signs for the legality of the work of everything in this municipality and we really believe that without at least five years of experience, we put that municipality and its citizens at risk of illegal treatment. Finally, just to clarify that, in any case, the Max Act, on how to determine the maximum number of public sector employees, in this case, in organisations within local self-government, does not assume that employees are detained in existing filled jobs. That would be bad for the organization that it's about. It is said that it came from the necessary evil, but still less evil than all other options, that the assumption that if that organisation can function, given that it has all this number of employees and that other organisations with the same functions have fewer employees, we have thus determined the number of employees in local self-government, then this means that work can be organised differently from the one that was assumed by the original systematization and to deal with that number of employees. Or, where there is a much greater number of currently filled jobs than in similar other organisations, the assumption is that work must be organised with a smaller number of employees. But it is very important for all of Serbia to understand that this fiscal consolidation is permanent, that it must be sustainable, that we need to change the way we work, so that where the number of employees is reduced or where the number in the systemization adapts to an existing number of employees, it is important that we change the organisation of work. This may even mean that there will be no room for some existing employees, and that other profiles must be found and fill that number, if the job organisation requires, in order to provide the same services more effectively from now on, i.e. what the state is doing today, doing with a smaller number of people, because our country today, and for a long time, will not be able to support more employees, but only smaller. It's a reality. It's important to think carefully and see exactly where our priorities are, where our services need to be more employed, and where, when we look at it honestly, we see it and we know it can be done with less. So, thank you again to Mr. Jovanovic and we will consider, of course, the government carefully amended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52305	Thank you. (Nedjo Jovanovic, from the place: Can I answer? You know there's no way on that basis, Mr. Jovanovic. You have enough chance to make up for it later. If you insist, I will literally give you one sentence. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52306	Thank you very much, Chairman, for the understanding you've shown. I'll be very brief. I don't know if we understand each other, but it's about the Belgrade City Assembly, about the President's Office of the Belgrade City Assembly. And when it comes to filled jobs, it's the interpretation of your ministry, that systems are only made for filled jobs, and I've asked a question, and that's the last sentence, what about other jobs where the directors are, where are those who... Corri Widowsky, from the scene, we'll see to it that we can fix it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52307	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Alexander Senic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52308	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When we talk about the draft law on employees in autonomous provinces and units of local self-government, the position of our parliamentary group is that the law on first reading is not so bad, but there are many shortcomings. We've tried it through the amendments to fix it and we've invested 32 amendments. I hope you'll consider them carefully and we'll talk about them the day after tomorrow. Also, I'd like the Minister to answer five questions about the law, because there are, at least in public, some misunderstandings. The first question – is the goal of new systematicisations leading to unscheduled officials who will then be fired or relocated? Then why is it that one who rejects a transfer that does not suit him is automatically fired? Why doesn't there be a deadline here, as well as the Law on Public Enterprises, where the competition has to be called and in which it has to end? When it comes to the status of the acting officer, whether the best solution you could have predicted for the status of the perpetrator is that if the position is not filled, the V.D. can be set. for three months, with three more months? So, for a total of six months to be V.D. What's the status? In the end, which logic you managed to put an officer in a position only when it was first placed, it went through a public competition, and at the end of the first term, his mandate could be extended without a public competition. We find this absolutely unacceptable. On the other hand, there is also a question of certain local self-government, as you have provided in article 51 that the official ceases to work in office and now point 4) by abolishing local self-government units, i.e. city municipalities. I come from a small local self-government where the government has abolished the court, in which we do not have a public notary, where the cadastre is deposed, where this government does not allow us to hire a public defender, a traffic inspector, lawyers who are necessary for the efficient functioning of our local self-government. And my question is whether the government has a strategy for the sustainable development of these small local self-governments that have up to 20,000 inhabitants, or whether they will simply eliminate them for hinting at this law. So it's not a small number of local self-governments that have fewer than 20,000 inhabitants. There are some people living and working there, it is completely inappropriate for only one member of the law to be ordered to abolish local self-government and that employees of these municipal administrations will stop working if local self-governments are abolished. Now I would like to talk about the motion for a decision on the choice of judges who are first elected to the judge's office. I assume we have representatives of the High Judicial Council in the O.R. My simple question is – How do you choose the judges you propose and if you can explain the process of running and choosing, because our judiciary is at this point in total destruction. You can complain about some failed reform in the judiciary five, six years ago, etc., but what is now happening in our judiciary is far, far below the level at which our judiciary was until 2012. I would like to give you just one example of where I personally participated and asked certain court officials, in particular, about the Main Court in the Great Plana, the judicial unit in Smederjevska Palanca, where a friend of mine has a desert procedure, where everything is completely clean. He is the successor of the First Order, submitted a request for a debate to hold a desert debate in October 2013 and has not been scheduled for the first hearing until today. So for more than two and a half years, the judge has not even scheduled the first hearing. I just want you to explain to me what the judges we choose to do here on your proposal, if they don't act in certain cases. The rest is not usually discussed, the proposal for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the resolution and appointment of members and deputies of the Republic Election Commission, on the proposal of the Serbian Progressive Party, where we generally do not interfere with the staff solutions proposed by other parties, but it is interesting that again for the president of the Republic Election Commission, Professor Dejan Djurdjevic, who has already resigned as president of the Republic Election Commission on 7 August 2014, for personal reasons he has not explained. His right, but we do not understand how that man or that man was re-proposed to the president of the Republic Election Commission, and we know that the Serbian Progressive Party is propagating a rule that there are no double functions. According to the Anti-Corruption Agency's records, I count, here are at least six public functions, and now we're adding the president of the Republic Election Commission to him again. Will that man be able to perform that function in addition to all the functions he has already performed? He is an extraordinary professor at the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, the director of the Republic Secretariat for Law, a member of the Examining Committee for passing a judicial exam at the Ministry of Justice and State Administration, a member of the examination committee for carrying out a public exam, again at the Ministry of Justice and State Administration. I've got information here about how much his monthly income is, but that's, let's say, his personal matter. We ask the question – will he be able to perform such an important function as the President of the Republic Election Commission, and he himself resigned on 7 August 2014, for personal reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52309	Thank you. Sign up, please. Here's the first Deputy Prime Minister. Here you go, Mrs. Widowsky.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52310	I'd just, some of your questions are rhetorical, such as this question of whether the law is passed to fire employees. Obviously, no. However, when it comes to deciding whether some units of local self-government exist or not, it is decided by law in this assembly. So it has nothing to do with this law. I'd just like to point out that status v.d. the position, not only can it last three months and three months, but the law clearly states that after the second three-month period, the perpetrator must be returned to his post as official, from which he was brought into V.D. Position. Therefore, there is no motivation for the competition procedure to be unnecessarily delayed, and there is a time limit within which the manager, or in this case most often, must decide on the commission's recommendation. It's only two weeks, so all in all, I think the law fits the requirements you set in this discussion. We will certainly carefully consider each of your 32 amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52311	Thank you, Mrs. Widowsky. I now give my word to Mirjana Ivić, election member of the High Council of the Judiciary of the Order of Judges. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52312	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, honourable MPs, you have all received in the material our proposals for the first choice of judges, just to make a brief reminder to the public. According to registered ads for the Business Court in Belgrade, the Basic in Panchev and Violation in Panchev, the High Council has educated the Commission that first carried out the verification of applications submitted, obtained opinions for all candidates from courts, meaning, from the court where they work and directly the High Court, opinion for candidates who do not work in court, means, for the authorities and organisations from which they come, and for lawyers from legal chambers. After all the opinions received, talks were held with all candidates who were first elected judges. For the Belgrade Business Court, 102 candidates signed up for the full of four judges, 37 of them in the order of judges, 46 in the order of judicial assistants, five candidates in the order of lawyers and 56 in the order of others. After the talks we made our proposal to you, it was very difficult for us because approximately good and all the good candidates we had in mind chose Grujic Tijanu. She's 1976. It comes from the Court of Commerce in Belgrade, 8.9 average, six years of study, in 2004 passed a judicial exam, since 2002 as an intern at the Shop, all the time in the Commercial and now at the Business Court in Belgrade. He's getting a positive opinion from his court, a direct senior, too. In 2012, the evaluation of her work was "specificly highlighted", and in 2013 and 2014, she was in maternity care, so we don't have an evaluation here. The next candidate is Ivcevski Nikola, Jovanovic Daniela and Cukanovic Darko. All come from an economic appeal with the averages of Nikola 8.83 for four years, 2004 passed by the judicial court, since 2002, in the course of trade, until now in economic appeal, a positive opinion from the court from which it comes with the special support of a certain number of judges and all three years is "extensively pointed out". Daniela, also 7,34, studied for eight years, in 2002, passed the judicial court, since 2000, when she was a trainee and until now in a commercial appeal, all the time in the Court of Commerce, positive opinion all three years "specially pointed out" and Cukanovic Darko, 1969, the same business appeal, as I said, 7.41 average, six years of study, in 2001 passed the judicial opinion, and since 1999 in Privredno, then the Higher Trade and now in business appeals, and also positive opinion and special support of a number of judges, three times "extremely stands out". They're extraordinary candidates. In addition to these characteristics mentioned here in the conversation, the interviews they had with the High Council Commission of the judiciary really made an outstanding impression. The next court is the General Court in Panchev. Two judges are elected there, 113 candidates from the four, 79 assistants, five lawyers and 25 others reported. Our proposal was submitted by Djordjevic Nenad, 1970 from the Higher Court in Pancheva, 6.83th grade, seven years of study, in 1999 passed a judicial exam and was in court all the time. So, from the city council, he's in the council now. A positive opinion from the court from which it comes, all three years "specially stands out" and Spajic Vladimir, 1975, from the General Court in Pancheva, 7,29 years studied, in 2005 passed by a judicial intern in the municipality, and now at the General Court in Pancheva, on the second list of values in his court, the Higher Court supported the opinion of the judge of the Basic Court. They're candidates for the General Court in Panchev. The next court is Infringement in Panchev. There's also two judges' seats. 67 candidates, 44 judicial assistants and 23 other persons reported. Our proposal was made by Vasic Aleksandra, 1973, from the Court of First Instance in Pančevo, 8.17 average for six years, in 2002, passed by the court, since 1999 as an intern and until now it has been in the General Court in Panchev. From the court has a positive, directly higher support by judges only in 2014 was not evaluated because of the maternity leave and Mladenovic Sandra, 1974, from the Higher Court in Pancheva, co-worker, 7.87, studied for four years, in 2002. He's been in the Panchev District Court since the day of the internship, and then he's an assistant and a tenth in a senior court. A positive opinion all three years is "extremely highlighted". As you can see, we've made sure that they're all candidates with a long internship in court. As you can see, all in 2001, in 2002, in 2004, are all over 10 and more years in court. In our opinion, they can sit and judge, because they made such an impression on the conversation. That would be about this.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52313	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52314	Mr. Chairman, I think you had to interrupt Mr. Senic earlier in the presentation, when he spoke of a court procedure and when, in which, one of the parties, his friend and when he said that the case was clean. I think it's a direct influence on the work of the judicial authorities. No one who deals with politics, no one from parliament, no one from the government, can influence the work of the judicial authorities. In what way and how the judge will now behave in this process, if Mr Senic has already ordered the verdict and has already said that all this is clear. Should we judge by the laws or by the orders of politicians? I think we've had such a reform in the judiciary from 2008 to 2012, and I don't think anyone is from the world, but from the domestic expert public has given a positive assessment of such a reform of the judiciary. Such a reform of the judiciary in which politicians, MPs, ministers, anyone who orders judgments, says whether the case is clean or not is clean, and that it is sufling the judge's judgment, reflects the former regime towards the judiciary and the independence of the judiciary, and I think that you had to warn the MP, Mr Senic, and to interrupt him or to point him to a major irregularity and a major blow, or attempt to strike, the supplication that the judge will judge, whether for the benefit of his friend or for the benefit of anyone. I think it is necessary that we stick to one code, that the judiciary is independent, and that politics and politicians, in no case should affect whether any of the items are clean or not, and what judgment will be passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52315	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Now there has been a case that I have pointed out several times, that if the MPs speak a little more quietly and if they step away from the microphone, they stand up, we chair, here and the deputy secretary agrees with me sometimes we don't hear parts of the speech, neither I nor he heard that sentence, and if we did, I would react, so I think I didn't break the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the Assembly to plead? (No) Thank you. Here you are, MP Alexander Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52316	I am also advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure, because you had to interrupt my colleague Babic, Article 106, did not first say which member of the Rules of Procedure of Advertising.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52317	He said 107th in the first sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52318	Secondly, to be clear, I didn't say what particular case it was, and I couldn't possibly influence the court, because I didn't say which case it was, I have many friends, so I'm sure no judge is going to investigate who my friends are in any case. Simply, the remark that my colleague made is absolutely not standing, and I think you should have interrupted it right after the second sentence. I'm not asking for a statement from the Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52319	You're very lucky to have used a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Normally, if I had not been able to break up as chairman of the People's Parliament until in the end, he would, or at least I didn't understand what my violation of the Rules of Procedure was. For the reason that you have misused the wording of the Rules of Procedure, I am taking away your MP group that time you used for the replica. The word has been made by MP Riza Halimi, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52320	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will join in these estimates that the bill is very good. Of course, I'll try a few members, some comments I think are worth the practical side. You have a member of the 12th and a solution that... [[Kori Widowsky, from the place: Can you get a little closer to the microphone, you can't hear anything?]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52321	Please, we have a situation that we can't react to some of your exposure, as well as the Deputy Prime Minister, who can't hear your discussion if you step away from the microphone.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52322	So, I went to the commentary of Article 12, which says: the day of the appointment, i.e. the appointment of officials, rests the rights and obligations to be obtained at work and based on the work of the employer in whom he was working in relation to the selection of appointments or appointments in that function. The solution is known and we've had it in practice so far. The only reason I'm starting this is because the same legislator two years ago was in addition to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, when it came to school directors, made a second solution. On that occasion, it was said that the Director's term of office was only in the first term and not in the second and next term. Now, if the executives are both, and for God's sake, the school director is a little bit more professional, and there is obviously a rigidly impossible to repeat the mandate to one very valuable director, and here, when it comes to more functions, it still continues with the practice so far. My opinion is that it's good, but here's a clear question why don't we have a single criterion from the same promoter, in this case the government is a proposing? I only wanted to draw attention, although I think this is a good solution in this law. Furthermore, in Article 47, which we have heard of Mr. Pastor's opinion, and it is quite right that for jobs to be said which are important for the realization, the exercise of the right to use minority language, that, in some sense and by law, it is binding and that we have one plane, and the other is equal to that which is later and in Article 189 further around the personnel records afterwards, that the other is equal in terms of how many minorities are represented. On the one hand, we have a problem with how minorities can in contact with local self-government, with state authorities to exercise the right to use their own language, their language, and the other with how much they are represented proportionally in public administration and local and state. So it's still two levels that are connected. Now I think these solutions are good here and they're very solidly suggesting how it's being solved, but the question is how to do it in practice. We have a fine regulation in the judiciary, which is also based on the law on official use of language and letters, and we know what our current practice is, how many minority members are in the ranks of judges, prosecutors, etc. It is the same situation in other areas, both in other state bodies and in public administration. Now, in my view, the problem is that there is no point in trying to show the problem, which is that the right to be able to use the language is used by minorities, and then there is an increase in the size of the work that is not worth it, nor is it valued in the job description, because every official who is forced to work in two languages will have much more to do than a single-language official. It's the same in court. Imagine a judge who now needs to process objects in both languages and his colleague who only works in one language. On the other hand, there's a competent evaluation of the number of items he's done and then in practice what do we have? Fleeing to suggest to parties in some ways that they use language – so you know Serbian, what do you have to use your, in this case, native language, because that also makes the judge more efficient in processing the case, so that he does not lag behind from a fellow working in one language? It is the same for officials, and of course, in this situation it could not have been in minority communities that very little use of the language that is in official use, precisely because of practical problems, precisely because of the lack of description of the quantity of jobs and recognition of the increased volume of work. I think it's a serious problem that you have in all of these areas that I mentioned for a little while and as long as it doesn't work out, then we'll have this situation when he's a member of a minority official or a judge or another public official, because he's not being paid for practically. This is the essence that a more serious proposer must do both now and in future solutions. This problem, but also to add, I mentioned the area that you are covering, Mrs. Udovici, four years ago you know, we had the first time to apply a single electoral list and that we had huge problems in Presevo, Bujanovac, Medvedji for using only Cyrillic. Now imagine the situation we've come into, I'm getting explanations from the Ministry that now every Albanian in Presevo, Bujanovac, Medvedji needs to make a statement whether he's going to have his name in his own language and his last name in the voter's list. I think it absolutely violates both the Constitution and the Law on Official Use of Language and Letters and the Law on the Single Election List because these people were registered in the native language, four years ago they were translated only into Cyrillic and now I know that again and in these elections we will have abnormal conditions, where all Albanians of these municipalities are now expected to leave and to declare that they want to be entered in their own language. So we here have a lot of problems with legal norms, constitutional norms being implemented in practice. Now the essence of this good solution that was offered here in article 189, about the records, and you know what they say? That it will be done, but of course it is said – data are recorded in personnel records, with written consent from the employee. It is about the same as the voter's list that everyone should now report that they want their name and last name entered in the Albanian alphabet. Now, the other thing is if someone's going to come forward. It's probably right in the larger environments and people who want the right to do it. Usually in smaller environments, especially where minorities are in the majority population, this problem does not exist, and in my view, the state must finally know what kind of ethnic structure the employees are, not only in local self-government, but also in the state administration and in all institutions. We agreed in principle, by the Constitution, that they are all equal, that they are all equal, but we know that in the practice of minorities are far, far below equal representation. This is, in my opinion, a moment that needs to be dealt with more specifically, respecting the internal right to plead, but I think it is in a small number of situations and cases, and that there is a lot of opportunity for the state authorities, including for the means of information, and for the public, to go out with the percentages of how many minorities are represented or in local self-government or in the state administration or in all other state bodies. Finally, I would mention quite neatly regulated provisions about trainees, which have also been resolved in a lot of laws so far, but here, in practice, there are, with local self-government, many attempts, and not just attempts, and direct manipulation of these provisions on trainees. It is heading towards finding ways to break the restrictions that came three years ago with a regulation on granting new employment consent, based on amendments and additions to the Budgetary System Act. You have this massive phenomenon of hiring interns and funding from municipal budgets, and none of the provisions given in this law, even in the existing ones, are absolutely not respected. Of course, it's just now for this pre-election period very important, that, on a party basis, there be some employment in this climate when employment for a permanent working relationship is limited by these laws that I mentioned a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52323	Thank you. It's the vice president of the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52324	I would firstly like to inform the MPs and the public once again that 250,000 voters are enrolled in the languages of national minorities in the voter list and to say that I really regret that Mr Halimi sees in this way the effort precisely to, without any doubt in the context of our work and the adoption of a draft action plan for national minorities as part of the Action Plan for Negotiations for Chapter 23, move to seriously correct any problems that still exist when it comes to the presentation of national minorities in the entire public sector of Serbia, and in the administration, and especially to say that in this case, when it comes to names, i.e. the language and letter in which the voters' names are listed in the voter list, the possibility is open. What do you mean, would you like someone else to correct that election list, not invite us citizens to correct any injustice or irregularity that may have been done four years ago? The logical thing is, and we're doing it now, to invite anyone who wants to change the way his name appears, to do so. Indeed, the practice that exists in Serbia in this respect is very democratic and advanced compared to international standards. Then I'll express my regret that you haven't heard Mr. Pastor's discussion. This law has been in the Assembly for a little while now, and since then we have worked on this dialogue with national councils of national minorities, including Hungarians. It has been agreed and an amendment has been proposed that the government will certainly provide support, which is indeed a small one, and yet a very significant step in changing the member on employment when it comes to promoting national minorities and under the same conditions gives them a fundamental advantage. It's a big deal. I hope you will carefully read this amendment and discuss it differently on the day of the search in particular. Otherwise, when it comes to school directors, let me just say quickly, yes, the regulation in Serbia is currently not quite consistent when it comes to the status of employees in different parts of the public administration. One of the tasks that we have set out in the Action Plan for Public Administration Reform is precisely to review the working status of officials. This now also requires the Law on the Public Sector Payments System, because it has to go to the end. This does not mean that all segments of the public administration will receive the same treatment, but it must be considered and to ensure treatment that corresponds to the characteristics and needs of the work and segment of the administration concerned. In the end, just to thank you, you basically gave one positive assessment of this law at first. I hope that when there's a search in detail, that assessment will be unequivocal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52325	Thank you. (Riza Halimi, from town: Replica. You have no right to a replica. There's no reason you should be entitled to a replica. The minister just answered your questions. She didn't mention you in a negative context. (Riza Halimi, from the place: According to the Rules of Procedure, I read a hundred times Rules of Procedure... You know very well that the chairman decides, and I believe that there is no reply from the Vice President of the Government to anything that would allow you to have a replica. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52326	Thank you. They say there's no text without context, so it's true and-- there's no reason to the law and any one of us that explains whether it's for or against has no context. This is the third time I've read this law and there's one shortfall in all three of my readings, in trying to get the information that's important to my context, which is – who does this law refer to, how many people, where are they? That's an important piece of information to me. I'm sure it's important somewhere and Minister Cory Widowsky. I can't say, because it wasn't pronounced, but, well, let's make an impression. Otherwise, when laws like this are passed, we are not inclined to talk about people in opposition or acceptance. I call it a phase of normative optimism. This is what societies and states are going through, which are in different steps of joining the EU. It's probably inevitable, I don't know, but the stage of normative optimism is like one of those folk stories, fairy tales that many of us have read, and that's -- the chair, stand up. There is one who has a magic tablecloth, and then the table is set up, and everything is set up. Many of us tend to, depending on whether we sit on a chair that supports the law or is against, to use the story – the chair, stand up. Me or those who cooperated with me had an accident that I never did. It's a key question for me and in this principle sentence, I'm going to set an example for those figures, so, as much as for who, for Novi Sad. I say it without negative or positive connotations and by New Sad, my city and by people and by anyone, because I deeply believe that you can't change what you can't measure. If we want to change the quality of business in local self-government units and at the province level, then we have to measure who does it, how many people do it, what they do. For Novi Sad, I'm going to talk about, because I don't have any definitive figures, with the hope that the error won't be greater than 1%, so it's a total of about 8,380 people, of which 5.131 works in public and public companies. First question – does this law apply to them? No, I don't. So people in public and public-communal enterprises in Novi Sad are not subject to the law we are considering. Then we have 1,832 more in “The Joyful Childhood. ” The institution, the preschool institution "The Joyful Childhood", which kept it, raised many newly-sed children. So does that apply to them? No, I don't. Institutions, funds, public, public-public enterprises are not related. Then we have 315 at the culture facility and city agencies. It doesn't apply to them either. And we have 997 in the administration. It's about them. What are those 997 people doing? Everything that involves functioning, in this case the city of Novi Sad. This number is probably in a similar proportion, and I am saying this by heart, from one to the 50 or 60 inhabitants in the total, and in this case it is much less if, as in the case of Novi Sad, remove from the total 8.380 from 5.131 to which it does not apply from public and public-communal, and 1,832 from the preschool institution “Working childhood”, and 315 from culture and agencies. So you get that 997 here, let's make it a thousand Novo-Sads and Novo-Sads that work in the administration. They're covered by this law. They're living people, they have names and family. What, as legislators, do you, as a legislator, want to achieve this law? That 997 have the right salary, in line with the local self-government budget, so the consolidated budget of the Republic of Serbia, I don't count on the budget that we are voting for, but all of it, to have the expertise, to have knowledge, to be politically insensitive to how the elections come with what structure and to be fully clear to the citizens of Novi Sad, the way they choose how to get to that place. Since I think we agree that we want that, those 997 people, that's the point where unfortunately I usually have a misunderstanding. Since I think the law should be made out that we know who these people are, and not that the real ones on the table are set up, because this often leads to the good laws that we adopt in the Assembly, it doesn't matter who votes for or against, I don't think these laws are the subject of the opposition who yells at you, and they yell at the government, I think it's useless, but well, if it is, it doesn't matter... So if you take those laws, what you want them to look like, not counting who's already doing it there, then you have laws that don't apply at all, and they get changes and supplements, or they get a new law. That's what I call normative optimism. All together, we're probably learning how the best, most effective way to sort out the public service space. I will, after this principle, try to explain to you the context, why I'm critical of the provisions of the law and why I'm critical of the way people choose to present the law to us, to try the comments of some members to say what is easy to pass when you want to get a good law, and you don't have a system that's measured to make this law really good. Here's the first example. Article 19 speaks of equal availability of jobs. The idea is good and colleagues Pastor and Halimi welcomed this thing and it was one of the things that was very difficult to talk about when, for example, it was the State Officials Act in 2005. That law has been withdrawn twice. There's a coincidence. I was an authorised representative back then. One outstanding lawyer, who left a mark on the writing of the law, Zoran Balinovac, was the director of legislation, has been withdrawn twice, as has the Government Act. Why am I putting down provisions one by one? Because, let's say, in the Government Act, it is in the laws on civil servants, to which this law, which has been in force since 2005, has been a member of the Committee of Presidents who has had the rubrum. The article described what was in the cabinet. I made the amendment to have a ficus, then Mr. Balinovac got a little angry, not much. It's my need to try to build a dialogue where only one is ready for dialogue. In this context, the mention of this Article 19, which says, with the edge of -- equal access to jobs, "In employment, it is taken into account that national composition, gender representation and the number of persons with disabilities reflect the largest possible population structure". He can't reflect the structure of the population. We have regulations on how and how much you have to hire a disabled person, for example. We have regulations on that. You cannot determine the number of people with disabilities by looking at how many you have in the population structure, as we have for employees. So I understand the intention and my comment of this last attitude is not critical of the intention, but of the way it writes. I have experience that I have to have as a national MP, which is to watch what it looks like when the laws we talk about are implemented in practice and produce consequences on people's lives, because that's what laws do. This law, at least for 997, will produce consequences. Article 25 with the rubrum – right to appeal. It reads: “Station 1. - the official has the right to appeal for a solution which decides on his rights and duties, if the appeal is not explicitly excluded by this law." How can you, by law on employees of local self-government and autonomous provinces, rule out a complaint concerning the rights and duties of employees? It can't. Why am I quoting this? Because I can guarantee you that among the 997 who are now in Novi Sad, to whom the law applies, there will be one to whom the leader, whoever party has brought him, will say, see, in the law that you do not have the right to appeal, your complaint is excluded. That's what happens with law enforcement. Art. 32, 33 and 34 talking about transfer, temporary work on jobs that are not in the job description and temporary work in the lower workplace. Article 32 says: “The official is obliged to accept the appropriate place of employment to which, according to the provisions of this law, he has been permanently or temporarily transferred. ” Reiterating in Article 114 afterwards the provision that he is obliged to accept the appropriate job. Who decides his job is appropriate? When you consult, after Article 32, members who talk about appropriate jobs, then you have a provision lower and more jobs. I understand what you wanted, but there's no longer a lower job. There is a place of work for which certain classifications are sought. There's management and hierarchy in management, and you can't have lower and higher jobs, it's not just good. For the provisions concerning, for example, article 37 with the edge of the border - the duty of notifying the suspicion of corruption, he says in the first position: “The official or the substitute is obliged to notify the manager in writing if there is a knowledge regarding the conduct of the job of the workplace that corruption in the body in which he works has been carried out. ” What can he do if his manager is corrupt? What will he do if he sees, if he testifies, if he hears about the corruption of the executive? Secondly, I am inclined to support the provisions on corruption, i.e. the fight against corruption in public sector laws, but then it must stand and the provision that it is required to address the police, because this is just how we say, with the intention of good, so there is nowhere to be seen here, it is said, here is one of the 997 that works in Novi Sad sees, let's say in urbanism it is, and sees that his chief, knows that his chief is ahead of him, it can be brazen, it doesn't matter from which party, that he took the money, that he did a favor. Who's he talking to? He's his manager. With the hope that it will be better applied than this one is how I read it, which I know how to apply it. Application of regulations governing the prevention of conflicts of interest on officials in place. This is a law in which provisions have been introduced, only in one place it is mentioned that it is the Anti-Corruption Agency, but which introduces provisions against conflicts of interest and obligations when it comes to the Anti-Corruption Agency. Minister Kori Udovici rightly said, we have a problem because of the discrepancies of the rules that create bars, nets, to fail, such as this case with principals in primary schools, both with public sector employees, and here what is conflict of interest, what is the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Agency Act. We have common awareness that you cannot completely root out corruption and there will always be some cases, there are also cases in developed countries that have a 50-year fight against corruption. The goal is to reduce it to a tolerable extent, so it does not endanger what should be led as a healthy process in managing public affairs. But that's exactly why laws like this should be talked about precisely what one of these 997 in Novi Sad is doing if he sees corruption. It's just not good enough to refer him to a manager. Now Article 52 discusses the reasons for the resolution. What I'm going to make as an objection to points 2 and 3 is simply my deep personal attitude. Therefore, in the reasons for the resolution of officials who are being resolved from the position, there is a number of said and then you have twice said – the final solution which was given the disciplinary penalty of termination of employment, and three – the final solution which gave him an unsatisfactory assessment. I understand that the legislator means that this is a solution that no longer has the right to appeal, because all rights are exhausted. But, you know, the final solutions only have one thing. Secondly, this syntagma is often related to events, so it should not be mentioned anywhere. I haven't given you an amendment, but it's just an ethical thing for me, so don't even consider it if you think it's at least something, that you're not calling anything a final solution. I've tried that two or three times with the ministers, and every time I get that standard -- you know, we want to sort it out here, how to tell you the public sector in Serbia. As a folk MP, as I speak to ministers, it doesn't matter whether I support them or oppose them, he hates them to go beyond stereotypes, when I say: why do you write a final solution? Well, they tell me it's so in practice, it's a language used. If we don't establish dialogue here, we won't have any good changes at local, or regional level, when it comes to people we want to apply this law to, so that they're elected publicly, to be unpolitical, to know what their domain is and their quality of work is, to respond to, to be measurable, and all that we all want to see. If the answer to anyone I've asked so far is "nomina's sont of odiosis", that's how it's written and what you want now. So, I want a lot of things. So that expressions such as the final solution should not stand in any law. And for the end of several comments concerning the already mentioned member, which defines serious injuries to duty and the way in which you, relocate, apologize. I mentioned Article 114 regarding Article 132 and now there are in Articles 111, 112, 114, 114, and 114 here, it is said that the official may be permanently or temporarily transferred to another suitable workplace because of the need for work. The transfer of officials due to the need for work does not require the consent of officials, an official in office cannot be transferred. You know, in practice, we have examples from local self-government where VSS officials are transferred to farm status. We've got the lawsuits they've been getting. This is what happens when you write in the law – the right job, because the competent person has estimated that it is that it is a farmer's place of work. For the end, of severe injuries to duty. This is Article 137, says point 13. That the burden of breach of duty is unlawfully available by means, as well as an unwitting relationship with the means of which the official or the lessor handles. It's not a violation of duty, it's a felony, and it's also happened in the Labour Act when we passed it in laws. If he illegally disposed of the money, then he either embezzled or stole something he did that was a crime. I don't believe it's a violation. If you put him here, he's gonna have a serious job injury, that's why he's fired. If you were to say that you would go through a trial, then the result of what happened in a proven trial will be fired, or a serious violation of your duty, that's another thing. But you're here to say it's a major violation of duty. Who's to say? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52327	The word has been made by the Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Udovicki.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52328	I'd just like to take a brief look at this discussion from which I can't conclude anything different than that this must be a really good law in principle, because I haven't heard any serious principle remarks except maybe twisted. It's that reason again that it doesn't apply to anything. I hope it wasn't an observation, I'm not sure what you were talking about when you were talking in context, but I really hope that there is no message from the public of Serbia coming out of your mouth that this single law should regulate everyone who works in local administrations and earn from the budget, or related to the activities that are being financed, let's say the budget subsidies at the local level, because this is really bad and wrong above all, the message for the citizens. But here and there, it seemed to me that maybe it would be a real possibility, it's hard to say at a discussion like this to improve the amendment. Please, I hope we've got the amendments and we'll certainly consider them to improve the language used or precision, but I must say I really don't see how you expect the law to prevent the abuse of the law. And you and I both know that if you say the right job, and then someone obviously moves someone to an inappropriate job, then it's a matter of court procedure to prove that it was an abuse. This one as probably everyone, and certainly most of the laws in this country, can't be immune to abuses. In any case, something up to your discussions sounded like a wish or a reference to a single dose and an adolescence. It is time in Serbia that something that is obviously, clearly, logically, certainly doesn't have to be super precise again, additionally precise in the regulations. It is precisely the spirit in which we have passed the Law on General Administrative Procedure, because with this prenormation, they are given endless laws which citizens ultimately do not know what their rights are and the other thing is that when life goes by its logic and notifying becomes not only possible in writing, but also in electronic and similar terms, you have to change the law to keep up with life. We believe that in the weighing of these two possibilities for a modern country and for one intelligent administration and there is no reason that our administration cannot be and that there are not many intelligent people, there is simply a need to be sound. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52329	Thank you. The word is made by MP Olena Papuga, authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Here you go, Mrs. Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52330	The chairman, Minister Udovici, co-workers of the ministry, fellow MPs, draft law on employees in the AP and units of local self-government is the level of AP Vojvodina, and I am now speaking as I come from Vojvodina, and from LSV has reduced the AP Vojvodina to a unit of local self-government, and that is the title of this law. The rights of the elected, appointed, appointed and employed persons in the AP Vojvodina are currently subject to the 1991 law, which is 26 years old, and the roof regulation in this area is now in front of us and it was made as I heard without co-operation with the authorities of the AP Vojvodina. The essence of the proposed single amendment to the LSV concerns the possibility that positions in other authorities of the AP Vojvodina, which is set up by the Assembly, means the Regional Protector of the Citizens of Simeon, the Office of the Assembly, etc., should be governed by the acts of those bodies, since the provisions of Article 48 of this Law define only positions in the circuit bodies of administrations and other services and administrations established by the Regional Government. By comparing similar solutions in the Law on State Servants, we see that a number of officials at the Republic level are exempt from the application of the said law and that it is possible that individual republican authorities are self-organising this area, so that it is justified that the same possibility is given to the authorities in the AP which are not covered by the proposed law. Also, Article 31 of the Statute of the AP Vojvodina prescribed that the Assembly governs the rights of office and the position of appointed and appointed and staff in the bodies of the AP Vojvodina, which are not governed by the law which is the case here. Article 191 of the Law gives the province the possibility that only cosmetically regulates issues that are not essential to this area. Also, in the transitional and final provisions of the proposed law, a deadline of 60 days from the date of entry into force of the law to adopt sublegal acts by the AP, which coincides in this time with the electoral procedure and means that, in those 60 days, most likely, as the law enters into force eight days from the day of publication, the AP Vojvodina will have a technical government, no bodies at the level of the AP Vojvodina will be established, the government of the AP Vojvodina, the Parliament of the AP etc. will not be established. The law will enter into force on the eighth day, and that 60 days will be the very election process. Have you thought about that, too, that there will be re-elections in some election units and that this is how it all comes out that by May 10th, everything should be done, and that is impossible to do during that period? According to the LSV, two laws were to be made, or the locale was to be regulated by one law and the province by another law. Obviously, this is where it happened that this level of local self-government was just copied to the AP, in this case, the AP Vojvodina. That's why we think the AP Vojvodina doesn't deserve it, given the tradition and experience it has in Vojvodina. In the part of this proposal for a law relating to the solutions given on civil servants, it should be pointed out that MPs and members of the Republic Government are exempt from the application of this Law on civil servants, while the elected persons in the authorities of the AP Vojvodina, meaning the province MPs, members of the Provincial Government, their deputies, officials, etc., are excluded by this proposed law, that is, this law does not apply to them as if MPs in the Republic Parliament and MPs in the AP Vojvodina, the assembly of the AP Vojvodina are different MPs. I don't know what makes them different if they're not subject to the Civil Service Act. In this way again, the institution of the District Assembly and the autonomy of the Vojvodina itself has been devalued in some way.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52331	Thank you, Mrs. Papuga. It's the vice president of the government. Here you go, Mrs. Widowsky.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52332	Just to correct the information, it's wrong, on the basis of which you discussed. Representative or representative of Vojvodina, representative I think he was, was a member of the Working Party who worked on this law. The position proposed by this law for employees in the position of the AP Vojvodina is absolutely done on the proposal of the representative of the Provincial Government and I must say that I hope that you have proposed to your amendments which are the solutions in this law which do not correspond to the AP, but as you yourself have said in any case, by law, that the offices of the relations you are talking about because the Constitutional Court has cassed the provisions of the Statute of Vojvodina, i.e. the AP Vojvodina relating to working-law relations and positions because it is their interpretation that it must be regulated by law. Otherwise, I thank you and I hope that you have proposed to extend the deadline for the adoption of sublegal acts by 60 days, because the law was passed when it could not be predicted that there would be an election period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52333	Thank you. The word has been passed by MP Dubravka Filipovski, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Here you go, Mrs. Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52334	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Udovicki, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I think it is a very important law that is a prerequisite for establishing an effective and modern local self-government that should be in the service of citizens. The creation of a new law took place on the basis of observed irregularities and illogicality in practice and I would say that the draft law for the first time integrated the system of working relations in bodies, services and organisations both in the AP and in local self-governments, including officials in them, which is very important. The bill refers to public administration, not to the public sector and public enterprises because public enterprises belong to the market, we made it very clear a few days ago together with you here discussing in the National Assembly, in this high house about the already adopted Law on Salaries. I'd say the reasons for this bill are very clear. Major problems have been identified in establishing a working relationship, there is no selection procedure that would allow the selection of the best candidates and there is also a need for systematic regulation of professional career development through professional training. I think it is very important to point out that the bill and its implementation are expected to increase the competitiveness of cities and municipalities and depolitisation of administration. The proposed solutions introduce a number of newspapers, such as the personnel plan, which has so far not been under obligation when it comes to local self-government. Then, the paper is also the introduction of detailed arrangements for competitive employment procedures. So far, competition procedures have been partially regulated, and the evaluation has been done superficially and rarely applied. The bill provides that management of officials, that certain jobs in autonomous provinces become positions, and for the first time, the possibility of setting up an acting chief, who currently does not exist, is opened. It is extremely important that the draft of this law regulate and more flexible employment of officials at a specified time for the purposes of designing certain projects in municipalities, which has not been possible so far by law. I think the proposed law is a great chance that by applying it from now on in a very clear way, we will be able to fence ourselves from work in the public sector, but also that all those we value and appreciate are motivated to be even better, because I believe that only strong individuals influence the strengthening of institutions, and only they can create a strong system and raise the overall competitiveness of municipalities, cities, provinces and the Republic. That is why I would like to inform you that the New Serbia parliamentary group in voting day will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52335	Thank you. The word is from MP Veroljub Arsic, the authorised representative of the SNS parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52336	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Madam Minister, listening to the discussions of their colleagues, some even graduate lawyers, and in terms of the grudges they have made for the law, I cannot treat it as serious objections, because I think the Law on Employees in the Authorities of Autonomous Provinces and the Units of Local Self-Government is good. You know, calling for this law not to solve work relations in public enterprises, well, no law solves one whole problem, but all laws rely on one another. The position of employees in public enterprises is regulated by a special law, called the Law on Public Enterprises. Some like to forget it, or hope to say something here in the Serbian Parliament about the intricacies or ignorance of Serbian citizens, so that, in this way, they come up with some political point. I also heard about the rights of appeal. Like -- where can it not be declared a complaint? Well, that's fine. The law can forbid a complaint. Is the mayor of the city's administration the person who... When's the mayor's appointment? The city council. Will the Board of Appeal decide by appeal from the mayor of the city administration, and on the basis of a decision made by the city council? Well, that would be the same as if a disciplinary body here in the Serbian Parliament discussed the resolution of members of a working body of the Assembly board, vice-president of the Assembly or something like that. That's unserious. So someone didn't even read the law. Furthermore, this matter was to be resolved finally, because in 99% of cases citizens satisfy their fundamental rights before the authorities of local self-government. I think there's only one state authority who directly conducts administrative proceedings in front of a citizen who does not perform his duties, or is not a craftsman, or a private entrepreneur, or a legal person owner. I think it's the Tax Procedure and Tax Administration Act. So, a republican taxpayer. Everything else is applied, i.e. local self-government from its original competences or entrusted transactions, such as The issue of building permits, the citizen for this is directly before the local self-government. What local self-government does, precisely because of these original powers of local self-government or trust, is a mirror of a state. We had a situation that a good part of this law that was actually written relied on the Law on employees in the authorities of the state administration. And now someone says -- you have a table you expect them to set themselves up, and you voted for that Law on employees in the authorities of the state administration. So, the position, the placements, the way local self-government function and the unit of the autonomous province is equal to the employees in the authorities of the state administration, because nothing else is done. In local self-government units, when it comes to the rights of citizens and the exercise of their rights and obligations, it is administrative procedure. And it seems to me only a few days ago that we passed a new Law on general administrative procedure. So when we look at all this that's happening back in the congregation, maybe a little more than a week, it's rounding up a legal continent and how the state works. Anyone who calls this by looking at a table that's going to set itself up is very unserious and I can't take his discussions seriously. In any case, precisely because of the state's functioning and given that local self-government is actually a mirror of the state and the way it works, we will support this bill in the voting day. I don't want to get too much into the details, there's a minister to explain, but I would ask fellow MPs that a debate on one of these laws cannot be turned into political stands, but rather into one debate. I did not agree with many of the laws that the National Assembly had passed, and for many, I thought they were good, but they needed to be fixed. If anyone thinks this law is good and needs to be fixed, let them provide their assistance. I would ask once again, when these laws are like this, to leave politics and to conduct this discussion in a professional way.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52337	Thank you. We are moving on to the order of MPs according to the application for a word in the joint principled search. The word has a folk letter from Grozdan Banac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52338	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Udovici, with her associates, dear colleagues and respected citizens, the draft law on employees in autonomous provinces and units of local self-government, which we are discussing today, is one in a series of laws that seek to regulate and modernise one of the areas of the public sector and local administrations in terms of organisational and labour law relations. Now the applicable regulations governing the status of employees in the province, city and municipal authorities were originally passed a quarter of a century ago, that is, in 1991, and this fact alone is sufficient to understand how old these rules were and that it was necessary to approach their reform. The proposal for this law now regulates this matter in a similar way, as is the case with civil servants. First of all, the new law better defines the rights and obligations of employees, who in the current text of the law are only in principle and the dwarves defined in only two members at the very beginning of the law, editing them in a way almost identical to the Law on civil servants. One of the key papers the law adopts is in Article 48, where it is clearly defined which seats in the local administration system are considered as positions, and it is stated that they are in the province's sub-secretary posts, in the province's secretariat of assistant secretaries, assistant directors of special organisations and services, and in the municipalities of the municipal or city administration chiefs. This is a good step to expand the number of places in the system where the professionalization of the state administration is being introduced. Compared to the solutions relating to the division of official titles in state authorities, certain changes have been made, so there will be only three advisory calls, the Law on civil servants provides for four, and three co-workers and a reference, the Law on civil servants provides for two. I believe that these solutions are a step forward in the mutual alignment of the career advancement and calling system, but I must point out and ask you, Mrs. Udovici, that this systematization of calling could also be considered to be compatible with the Civil Service Act, so that it is equal for all authorities of state and local self-government. The new bill recognises the right and the possibility of employees in the province and local authorities to enter into a special collective agreement, thus finding the role of the negotiating party that manages to bring together employees in more than one third of local self-government units who employ at least 20% of employees, thus also giving these categories of employees a better opportunity to protect their labour rights. Unlike the solution so far, the law stipulates that an officer in office at the end of office has the right to pay up to a maximum of three months, up to now six months, as we consider a good and extraordinary solution, as it will also achieve certain financial savings in local budgets. Dear ladies and gentlemen, we in the PUPS Parliamentary Group believe that this bill is extremely good, that it took an extremely long time for it to settle in this way, which really creates great opportunities to fit in and in the way the EU works, which means that we are already preparing in this way, so that we can have really exceptional laws that we would not have to correct in the future and that will benefit the state and employees. In voting day, we will, of course, give support to this legislative proposal, and we will vote for a whole set of laws on this agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52339	Thank you. The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister, Dr. Kori Udovicki.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52340	I'd just like to respond to this suggestion that the names are fully customized at the state and local level, which would mean that there's an even higher advisor being introduced, which is not in this case. The problem with this is actually the setting up of our territorial organization where there are huge differences in sizes between units of local self-government. You were probably there when Mr. Jovanovic spoke, who said he might have local self-government who couldn't find anyone with five years of experience to be chief. That's why we had to find some measure. Because if you introduce an opportunity to be senior advisors, then it's normal to expect it to be at least seven years of work experience, and that the chief has five. We remain in one of the misunderstandings that we really need to address and expect in line with the programmes that we have on our way to the EU that will be resolved in the future with a territorial organisation, but the fact is, for example, for one Belgrade, is inappropriate, and for the province itself, that they do not have, perhaps, the possibility of calling a senior adviser. We'll look at the amendments and think about whether there are any other solutions that are better compromises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52341	Thank you. The People's Messenger Dr. Pavicevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52342	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mrs. Udovici, a respected guest from the Ministry, a respected guest from the Supreme Council of the judiciary, the esteemed Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr. Becic, I have several notes that I would like to announce, above all, to the guests of Udovic and Ivić. First for Mrs. Widowsky. We have prepared 13 amendments, Mrs. Udovici, to this legislative project that you have defended today in our National Assembly. Of those 13 amendments, I think nine amendments will be acceptable to you, in absolute terms, since it concerns correcting some inaccuracies and inaccuracies around the language itself. You certainly know that inaccuracy, inaccuracies in language, when they exist in the context of a legislative project, always question one of the great principles of rule of law, and it is very important for us to strictly, Mrs. Udovicki, to adhere to this great principle of rule of law. My expectation is that at least nine of these 13 amendments will be accepted. The second note - your arrival in the National Assembly is always a sign for us, the MPs, that we are going to night sessions. Here we have, gentlemen, again, the situation of having night sessions against which I am. Mrs. Widowsky, I wouldn't mind if we sat down at night, if we worked day and night. But here, today, we started at 10, so we took a break, so we took a second break, so we took a third break - the day went away, gentlemen, and the breaks were an hour and a half, and then again at night must be done. I think it is very important that in the National Assembly of our Republic we discuss legislative projects under the bright sun, under the light of day, honored gentlemen, not to go to night every day. Mrs. Udovicki, my suggestion is that you suggest a little too, both to your colleagues and colleagues in the government, but also to fellow MPs from the ruling majority, not to do this, in the next term, for example. Third thing, and now I would move on to this part of the argument and note that I would direct to our guest, Mrs. Ivić. Mrs. Ivić, you're not the first time in the National Assembly. We've already had a chance to talk. Today, we are talking again about the choice of judges who are first elected to the judge's office. I have a grudge again. Namely, I believe that the subject of the election of judges who are first elected to a judicial office, I know that you know that, on the basis of the knowledge of the legal and political theory, that the judicial function of all of us, the MPs and the citizens of our Republic, is a function of one, and that, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the sanctity of the judicial function, we in the National Assembly need in an appropriate way to present these candidates who are likely to be elected for the first time, this means that it is not enough for me to read the names, to say – born or born here and there, the college ended here and there, by assessing this and that one point – rather than that it is necessary for all citizens, especially these candidates and candidates, to read the names, to say – born or born here, and here, to be in fact, to be in this worldly terms, in this respect of nationality. To remind them of the members of the Constitution that bind them to one impartiality, to non-arbitraryness. Here, for example, Article 149, I think it was necessary, including the MPs who said they were saying it, and I think you, too, remind them once again, to say it – the judge is independent and subject only to the Constitution and the law. This means, gentlemen, that all these people need to know that in this country the rule of law must be respected, not the rule of man. To remind them of this occasion, and thus to give them one of the attention they deserve by becoming candidates for a lofty judge's office. And today he's missed this approach. I'm sorry about that, but I hope that every next time this sanctity of the judge's office comes to terms and in our parliamentary debate, in our National Assembly, our Republic, honored gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52343	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go, Mrs. Widowsky.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52344	To answer the previous speaker, when it comes to amendments, which he is confident we will accept, I must say that when it comes to the General Administrative Procedure Act, we have accepted one set of such amendments, which we have seen as a signal that, in fact, since there has been no other amendment, you have no fundamental objections to that law. Unfortunately, you didn't vote for that law. The question now arises – what would we adopt as amendments, if it can and can be corrected through a legal and technical order. We will take a very careful look at each of the amendments and everything that can be corrected by legal-technical regulation, certainly so, which can't, and it's a better solution, we will adopt as an amendment, and for those four who obviously don't think they're obvious, therefore, they're probably not just legal technical-edition, I also assure you that we will carefully read and consider, because our goal is to adopt in this Assembly the best possible law for citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52345	Thank you. If it's one sentence, it's okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52346	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like only in one sentence to inform Mrs. Udovici that I was at a vote on legislative projects from a legislative project she spoke about and I was not against, I was not in favour, I was abstentioned by all those objections to the procedure I spoke about in the principle debate, but we are in the principle debate, I am finishing this one sentence, Mr. Becic, saying that a new concept that is being promoted by this law deserves much more attention than we could give here, dear Mrs. Udovicki. But I was here and I voted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52347	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. Mirjana Ivić, election member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52348	At one of the previous sessions of the same things, we have already clashed, or you have asked that here in Parliament, I quote the Constitution, or, independence, independence of judges, and I told you then, and now the same is the answer, they come to swear in a few days. Then all things are well told what they do, how they should behave, and what is expected of them. Therefore, when the judges are before you you can, and I see all day we are here, you are the only one of the MPs who was interested in selecting judges from all of you in the hall. So, I'm sorry, but...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52349	Please, Mrs. Ivić, you can't talk to the MPs like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52350	I can just because I'm provoked.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52351	You can't, you're not appropriate to decide whether MPs are interested or not, the choice of judges, this is a united debate and they can talk about a subject they consider more important to them at this point. Thank you. The word has a National MP, Miroslav Marinkovic. Sorry, mistake, MP Dragan Nikolic. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52352	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister with Associates, Honorable colleagues from the Supreme Council of the judiciary, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I have reported today because this is the last debate on the election of judges who are first elected to judge office, and I want to say, for the sake of the public of Serbia, and to express my satisfaction, both to the Serbian Progressive Party's entire parliamentary group, the way in which we have held the first choice of judges who are first elected to judge office, prosecutors, the president of the courts and all others who are tied to the judiciary, no single affair in 2012. The High Council of the judiciary is doing its job under the Constitution, based on the law, on the rules adopted, on clear criteria and criteria, people who are proven professional, who are qualified and who are highly moral and for which there is no tail and I congratulate you on that. I congratulate you and as someone who deals with this job, someone I congratulate even though today we will not choose these judges but we will vote for them on the day we vote for the bill of law to which the esteemed minister has given it. I know that my parliamentary group will undoubtedly support what you have done as the High Council of the Judiciary for these four years, by voting for all the proposals of the judges you have made. Someone who participated in this debate today, firing political parolees, said that the situation in the judiciary was disastrous, that the situation was in ruins, that the judiciary was in ruins, and the strangest thing is that someone from the parliamentary group to whom the former minister of justice belonged until recently, who made the judicial system in 2009-2010, and when someone from that parliamentary group today raised the way you choose judges I answer him to choose legally, to choose as it says in the Constitution, as it says in the law and as it says in the rule. None of the judges elected so far have been chosen by the protection on your part or by any MP or any municipal or city council SNS, as it was at the time of 2009, when without the certification and consent of the chairman of the DS city board, you could not be elected judge. If you didn't have that consent, you weren't chosen. That's when 900 judges and prosecutors were hired, literally from the judiciary, and they were mostly the most honorable and people with the most experience, people who knew best and who did the job best, but didn't want to be obedient to some parties, and that's the only reason they weren't chosen. Now it's a completely different situation. These people you've proposed, and these are judges for an economic court in Belgrade, the General Court in Panchev, the Panchev Criminal Court, we don't know. We never came in contact with them. You've had an interview with them, you've given us today the grades they had at college, that they've been very prominent in the course of work, "in particular, they've pointed out" that they've passed the judicial exam, that they've been given the opinion of the court in which they've been working and directly to the High Court. What better than that than your colleagues working with you giving you the highest grade? That's how you made your job easier. It's just that the interview, the direct conversation with these candidates, is to see if it's about educated people, eloquent people, in the end, and that way of treating and talking is an important fact based on which to determine whether someone is going to be a good judge or not to be a good judge. That is why, of course, the SNS parliamentary group will vote in Voting Day for these candidates. You have another proposal initiated by Justice Minister Nikola Selakovic. An unpleasant situation, a proposal to resolve the president of Belgrade's First Basic Court. As the High Council of the Judiciary, you have considered, examined the case, come to the facts, and I will remind you that in September 2015 a procedure has been initiated, and only now on March 1st, we are discussing it, which means that this is one process which is transparent and which is conducted in a legitimate way, is led to this proposal. You gave it to the Assembly, the Constitutional Affairs Committee and the legislation accepted your proposal, and the Justice Committee also supported your proposal and it is now on the agenda. In four years, as far as I'm concerned, this is the second president of the court we're changing. This was changed by the President of the Court of Justice, the President of the Valjev Court on a proposal from the Minister, and this is a message to all colleagues, all the presidents of the courts, not to play, not to be joking, that we are very serious, and that every mistake they make will be seen through a special prism, anyone who is the President of the Court, or whoever is the first man in that court, must be an example to the interns, to all the officers, to every judge, to any judge, to any judge, to any reputation, to be respected. That's why we'd hate to, but given that this is your proposal, which is explained and accepting everything from your explanation, in the day of the vote, we will surely resolve this President of the Court with the intention of never doing it again, to make it a reminder to everyone else. As for the other proposals, they are also very acceptable to us and the SNS parliamentary group in the voting day will give its full support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52353	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. The word has a National MP, Miroslav Marinkovic. Here you go, Mr. Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52354	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is before us another exhausting session with several agenda points, but what I will focus on in my discussion is the draft law on employees in the AP and units of local self-government. This law was also necessary in my opinion in 80, 90% of the solutions he makes are extremely good and quality and are a good basis for regulating legal legitimacy in this area. Normally, neither previous law nor this one is capable of predicting all irregularities and removing them in one good way or this one, probably in the best of intentions. Certain solutions are also impossible to make since other parts of the system are not fully harmonised. However, what, since I have worked eight years as president of a local self-government assembly, I think I have been talking to all the officials who have worked there, who have now been given the rights and instructions to make proposals that have been made in the amendments that Boris Tadic-SDS MP group, the ZZS, have submitted as quality proposals that could make some of the concerns that life follow, especially in the application of law on the ground, useful. As a first, let me say, the problem that can arise is that one of the solutions that predicts a working relationship, means to the official, ceases by abolishing local self-government, may be an example that, under certain conditions, a certain local self-government by decision, as you said in the Assembly, the Serbian Parliament, can cease to exist, thus ending its working relationship. This is not one way of thinking well, given that, given that employees of all and in state authorities need to have some higher level of protection, so that, as you later said by taking over what is also possible, certain jobs can be filled, i.e. that those people who are, I understood it so, that they would remain in this situation without a job could be taken over by others. It would be all right if we had clearer, or clearer criteria under which this takeover is carried out. Also, a solution that provides that when offered to an official, i.e. determine that he needs to move to another workplace, i.e. To go beyond his non-acceptance, he creates conditions to be fired. This does not mean that something is not understood, but it also implies that it opens up space, a large space for corruption, i.e. for mobbing and in certain cases a state official who is a senior rank can also condition that in this way suspension, means, before offering another job that is appropriate as you wrote, but that does not mean that it is adequate, it can lead him to a situation where he loses his job by refusing to do so. What can also cause certain misunderstandings is that by law you have provided that, for example, the regulation of a public competition does not have a time limit, and in this public competition, let's say the selection of officials in office, so you also talked about the head of the municipal administration who you rightly said was practically one, if you see the factual impact and the weight of the work he does is greater than the job he performs both the president of the municipality and the president of the Assembly, and that a certain high calling is necessary and five years of work experience. Since it's a lawyer, if it's possible to pass a two-year-old judicial exam, I think it's possible that he may also be able to perform that duty after two years of working experience. But with the competition you predicted, you predicted a solution to be chosen for the first time in the competition, and later you could extend that deadline. We believe that in the case of the municipality from which I come, it is entirely justified, but we believe that the competition would create a good example of positive practice, i.e. positive thinking about the work being done. We are all aware that by doing business in these situations after those five years or after one term, he becomes routine. There's one rule in the West that when you've been working for seven years in a company so don't ask for a raise, a change, an improvement of a job but you keep quiet and you get that same salary, that the boss calls you and asks you to see if something's wrong with you or something's wrong with the company you're working with. So, that competition is no big deal if we don't take a negative approach that it's possible to have a negative relationship with all of this. So, I'd create a positive relationship with work and we'd try to make it work, and I'd give the possibility that, please, someone who's better will show up. No matter how good I am, there are better and the essence of the progress of the system and the promotion would be that there are always opportunities for the competition to come better. There's a lot of things, I wouldn't take time from my MP group because both colleagues and colleagues have a lot to say. In any case, depending on how you treat our amendments that are very constructive, so they're not only grammatical but essential, we'll decide whether we support this law or not, but in any case commendation for what you've done.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52355	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. The word has a national message, Mariana Marash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52356	Dear Chairman of Vienna, thank you. The Honorable Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, is ahead of us today, as we have read, several draft laws, I will discuss in my presentation the draft law on employees in autonomous provinces and units of local self-government. We have before us a bill which is a prerequisite for establishing an efficient, modern, local administration, which will primarily be in the service of citizens. The proposal fully regulates the system of working relations in bodies, services and organisations, both in autonomous provinces and in local self-governments, including officials in them, and which is certainly a novelty in this law. The creation of new legal solutions followed a series of illogicalities and irregularities that have been observed in practice. Namely, the 2005 State Officials Act, out of reach, remained employed in autonomous provinces and units of local self-government, and as a transitional solution, it is foreseen that this law applies to employees of local self-government and provinces, until the adoption of a special law, which will regulate their rights and obligations from working relations. But that's what's been waiting for almost 10 years. Some of the negative phenomena in the current development of labour relations at the provincial and local level are the consequence of the fact that the Law on Working Relations in the State Authorities did not aim to respect the specificities of the province and local level, but rather brought it to state authorities, and was applied accordingly to autonomous provinces and units of local self-government. It should be borne in mind that the public sector is diverse and that it was impossible to miss and prescribe universal standards, it is already necessary to pass a special law, which will apply to employees in autonomous provinces and units of local self-government. It was precisely because of the above, that there was a need to regulate the working-legal status of employees in local self-governments and provinces with a more appropriate model of the official system, with full respect for all specificities specific to the autonomous province and local self-government. The draft legislation on employees in autonomous provinces, units of local self-government, with the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, according to the minister, city managers, municipalities, as well as representatives of the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities, which should guarantee quality and thorough work to improve this area. The aim of all of us is to create modern cities and municipalities, and in order to achieve this, reforms are necessary, i.e. adequate legal arrangements for the working legal status of employees in the autonomous province and local self-government. This should also be accompanied by the need to introduce modern mechanisms of good governance at the level of local self-government, in the context of improving the quality and efficiency of services that at local level provide their services to citizens and legal persons. The law should be a prerequisite for establishing an effective and modern local administration, which should be in the service of citizens. Dear People's MPs, the bill regulates the rights and responsibilities of employees in autonomous provinces and units of local self-government. The provisions of the law are also provided for to be applied accordingly to employees in the authorities of urban municipalities, as well as to services and organisations established under special law by the competent authority of the autonomous province, units of local self-government and urban municipalities. In the sense of this law, services and organisations shall be considered professional services and special organisations established to carry out the tasks of the administration. The provisions of the law provide that it is not to be applied to employees of companies, companies, institutions, public agencies, funds, foundations established by a special regulation by the competent authority of either an autonomous province or a unit of local self-government and a city municipality. The proposed solutions introduce a number of newspapers, including the personnel plan, which adopts the municipal or city assembly, with the aim of ensuring staff planning and restricting employment to available funds in the budget. The paper is the introduction of detailed arrangements for competitive recruitment procedures and the obligation to assess officers by regulations for civil servants, as only a partial procedure is currently being partially regulated, and the evaluation is superficial and rarely applied. What's new is that the competition commission, for the purpose of conducting an internal competition, should have three members, one of which is the head of the department for the place for which a competition for the reception of workers is called, a professional person doing so and a person dealing with staffing, of course, in local self-government. The draft law provides that management of officials in the position of officials, deputies, certain jobs in autonomous provinces become positions, and for the first time the possibility of setting up a v.d. is opened. the head of the municipal administration, which currently does not exist as a legal solution, for a maximum period of three months without holding the competition, when the head of the administration is unable to perform his duties for more than 30 days and in the event that there is no deputy head of the municipal administration. The improved disciplinary procedure, which significantly raises the responsibility of officials, is also one newspaper passed by this law, and a disciplinary commission, in which one of the members is a representative of the representative union, which I think is also important to point out. In order to have a more professional and efficient administration, professionalisation, or professional training, a element of the evaluation of civil servants will be required. The bill also regulates more flexible employment of officials at a specified time for the purpose of designing certain projects in municipalities. A more efficient and responsible public administration is the basis of every democratic society. This law should also contribute to a transparent administration, which will function well, but also to a modern administration, which will have qualified officials. The principle of equal availability of jobs is introduced. This equally principle of job availability should satisfy the criteria for gender structure and national structure as far as possible. The question now arises and will we be able to fully fulfill this, since in our local self-government, however, this difference in full structure exists, women in full structure are much more represented when they are employed in local self-government. The adoption of laws establishing the basic principles of an official system based on standards adopted in modern comparative justice systems shall fulfil the basic assumption of full professionalisation and depolitisation of personnel in autonomous provinces and units of local self-government. Thus, the provisions of the proposed text of the law introduce the principles of work that would allow the tasks of the Autonomous Region and the local self-government units to be carried out professionally and legally, while the employees will be protected from political action that could affect their position, career development, professional training and career advancement in the service. The official is required to act in accordance with the Constitution, the law and other regulations under the rules of the profession, impartially and politically neutrally. No one shall influence an officer to do or do anything contrary to the regulations. Since I come from local self-government, although I may have made it a little bit longer in the presentation, I would like to say that this is an extremely important provision and that it is very important for your associates to have exactly these experts who will insist on respecting the law. I am pleased that this is now in the law as a provision and that there is a release of officials in charge in case he has requested a written order to perform a task and that he has received it from his superior. He's free of responsibility if he's done any damage. All the principles of the official system regulated by this law are systemically laid down so that, in autonomous provinces and local self-governments, freedom to decide in clearly defined areas, such as the adoption of a human resources plan, competition procedures, the appointment of a competitive commission in the process of full-time jobs, the work of the Board of Appeals, which are resolved in the second instance by officials on labour acts and special training programmes for staff in local self-government units. I would point out that the law in generic terms includes officials, officials and deputies who exercise the rights, responsibilities and responsibilities of the authorities, organisations in the service of autonomous provinces and units of local self-government. In order for this law to be comprehensive, it is also necessary to cover the position of officials in autonomous provinces and units of local self-government and thereby fully terminate the similar application of the Labour Relations Act in state bodies at the regional and local level. An additional reason to regulate the position of officials in this law is the fact that no new law has been passed that would uniquely regulate the issue of officials at all levels of government. Finally, it is important to adopt the law because we lack a modern act that regulates the relationship of employees in local self-government, and in order to provide services to citizens in the best way. Finally, I would like to say that in the voting day, the SPS will support all the draft laws that are the subject of today's single and joint search. Although the minister is not here right now, her associates are here, and I hope they'll pass it on to her. In any case, Chairman Igor Becic will make an effort to pass on everything I have exhibited to her in my presentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52357	Thank you, Miss Marash. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52358	Thank you. Very briefly, two remarks that I consider important in relation to everything I have mentioned about the context and provisions to which this law is defined, and as an authorised representative of the DS parliamentary group. The first, total number, I mentioned as an example of Novi Sad, that this law refers to 997 people in the administration, not to public-public enterprises, cultural institutions, social work centres, agencies, no, just administration. If it is monitored to mean one in the administration of about 400 inhabitants, we reach about 20,000 people in Serbia in all local self-governments and all autonomous provinces that Serbia has, therefore, are subject to the law. When you say 20,000 people who need to organize life in local environments, that for serious, large corporations means the number of employees. I don't want to compare local self-government and corporations. I'm simply talking about the number of people the provisions of this law should apply to. Among them will be some who will be subject to application. 90, 91 and 92 on takeover. Why do I find these members interesting? Article 90 on takeover says in its two positions – the employer can take over from the second employer in Article 4, which defines who is all the employer, this law, or from the state body without competition, the official who is in working relation to indefinite time. In the second position, the takeover of officials shall take place on the basis of the takeover agreement with the consent of the officers to be taken over. Languageally more or less, I'm not here, especially if it's not an obvious provision that's missing. It's clear here. Of these 20,000, you have in some municipality an official who could work and be more useful in another municipality. It can also be downloaded if it is not taking over within the same local self-government, which is also like horizontal mobility in the organisation of work. In principle, that member can be fine. Now comes article 91, which says in the first position – the official can be taken to a job that is classified in the same, directly lower or directly higher calling, and in the second position – the official can be taken over to the workplace, classified into a direct higher calling if he meets the conditions for advancement. Why would anyone say by agreement, well, take me into lower calling? You know, when it's written like this, so when you do, as I read the laws, I watch every member of the law apply to a human being, because that's why laws and there are, all kinds of laws, what this produces, what effect it produces in the life of Maria Maric, who has the calling of counselors in the Assembly and then assumes it as a lower advisor in the council. Even though I understand good intentions, it can't work. Article 92 says – if the workplace is not filled or taken over by officials, a public competition is being held. When you have a member like this, then you have legalized for every unfulfilled job – try first download. I know you don't read it that way, I know that the bill promoter didn't mean it, but that's why I told you in the introduction that it was my job, that it was my constitutional obligation, that it was an obligation under the Law on the National Assembly, to watch the law applied on the ground. In that sense, my remarks. The amendments to which members of the law would be changed have not been tolerated. They've submitted to my colleagues, but I hope I've been able to explain to you that we need to read the provisions carefully again. If there's an amendment colleague, I'll vote. If the board wants to intervene, he'll intervene.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52359	Thank you. The word has Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52360	We'll see if there are any amendments. I don't see what the problem is with taking over a lower job. No one can force anyone, and maybe I married someone in another municipality, and I want so much to live with him in another municipality, that I'm willing to move to a lower job. What's in there? There must be mutual consent. No one's gonna make anyone take over. As for this other problem, which you state, if there is an amendment, we will carefully consider them.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52361	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52362	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, today we have a new system law waiting 25 years for its light. I'd say it's actually a new model for the functioning of local self-government, just because we haven't had a chance to look at employees the way it's been proposed by this law. That's why I think this law, when there's a debate in particular, we need to discuss it in detail. Since we have another proposal on the agenda, which is the authentic interpretation of the Privatisation Act that we discussed here, I'm going to dedicate a few minutes to it, just so you know why it's put into this agenda, but what I'd like to tell you is that this kind of solution that you've given the law shows that you've really worked thoroughly on this proposal. In addition to working thoroughly by each member, I see that you have used a lot of experience from the practice of EU countries, you have even explained that there are three models by which developed countries work and that you have chosen exactly the one that corresponds to our local self-government and the AP and in a certain way showed that Serbia is becoming a regulated country, and with the help of those laws on the maximum number of employees related to the AP and local self-government adopted at the end of last year. I think this closes the full procedure of professionalizing people who work in local self-government. As regards authentic interpretation, the Committee on Economic Affairs, as president, was in charge and authorized in front of the SNS to defend and the part relating to changes and additions from 2014 and 2015. We sent it to the Legislative Committee, especially those problems that have arisen in practice, and problems have arisen, when competitions and the completion of the privatisation process are being discussed, how the state should treat parts of certain companies, companies that end up in privatisation and how it is defined. 29, 30, 48, 50 and 52. The Legislative Committee supported this authentic interpretation in its explanation, and in the voting day it will simply support and give this proposal and its positive opinion. This is very important for us to conclude this privatisation process and to say, for the sake of Serbian citizens, what we have committed to the EU, but also as a state to itself and to employees who are still in this privatisation process, to the wolf of certain rights and obligations. With this interpretation, we need to complete this process and bring to an end the satisfaction of all precisely, primarily, because of Serbia's budget and because in the privatisation process we need to end up with inadequate funding at the expense of all Serbian citizens. In the day to vote, in addition to this law, where you are a formally-legal promoter, the SNS will support this proposal for an interpretation proposed by the Legislative Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52363	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52364	Mr. Becic, how much time do we have left?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52365	You've got plenty of time, Mr. Risticevic. If you want to be exact, 156 minutes and 40 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52366	I think that'll do me good. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sorry these right benches are almost empty, given the list of topics we're discussing tonight. As for this interpretation of the privatisation law, I think that the gentlemen have moved away, since they, as soon as you mention privatisation, are afraid that there will be some revision and of their wealth, which has become overrun by a time of predatory privatisation, where everything that was ours has become theirs, and as soon as something comes about privatisation on the agenda, they move away. Apparently, all that wealth left them was fear of losing him. As far as the courts are concerned, I am pleased to interpret the fact that another president of the court is dismissed and that the control of the work of the courts, especially in the execution work, where individual perpetrators, along with the assistance of certain courts and judicial units, and how they are savaged in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and the former president of the Valjevo court, have been resolved. I want to congratulate the new judges on the election, and I hope that they will sanction crime in a better way, that they will punish the guilty, that they will protect the innocent, because I am afraid that by 2012 and at the time of the judicial party reform that the courts of a party, or of a coalition, were created, and at that time the decisions were made, and I believe that these judges will be fresh blood and sanction crime, that they will not behave in the style of 2012, courts where many judges and courts have taken their heads off to small thieves, and before the great ones have taken off their hats. Congratulations to the newly elected judges, who will be elected and I want them to succeed, which is a more successful point of crime, because in the period from 2012, crime has been in a position to put an end to the state. As far as RIK is concerned, just because the viewers know, the next elections will be held according to opposition rules. Therefore, according to the rules created by the party of the former regime and all objections, their meetings are interpreted in this way, all objections concerning the regularity of the elections, our citizens have the right to know that the elections are held under the rules of the other side and that the government, the ruling coalition, has not changed any electoral regulations, not one law concerning the elections, either at the republic, or at the local level, but that elections will take place under the rules established by the party of the former regime, i.e. the current republican opposition, or the Vojvodina government. So, in that sense, we haven't changed anything. As far as electronic media is concerned, and here I am obliged to say that they themselves know that the censorships of the country until 2012 are gone, that no electronic media was available to the opposition until 2012, that the opposition had a leader on the "Fox" radio and that it had two hours, it seems to me, at the "World Plus" or "Copernikus" of one cable television, whose journalists were not allowed to attend press conferences held by the officials at the time. As for the proposal for employees of the AP Vojvodina and local self-government, I am particularly interested in that part of the law concerning officials, their rights and their efforts to abuse their function, which this law does not allow. Namely, what's this about? Despite their regular work, they often learned to create an opportunity for themselves to work for previous employers who had kind of delegated them, who had pushed them through politics, and I think this law makes it impossible for officials to do business for the previous employer, i.e. to support other jobs from their public work. I will refer to Indjia as an example, where former municipality president Goran Jesic, for 12 years, was the president of the municipality. After that, he had no interruption of office, moved to be Vice-President of the District Government, for 14 years he performed only a public office and this is very much related to this law. He had a salary that was slightly less than 1,000 euros. He didn't have any business before, because he was an unfinished student, I think he studied from 1993 to 2005, so we still have three years for retirement terms, to retire successfully, as a student. So he didn't have any private business, but let's say he himself stated that he was four years in Jordan. So, I can't understand our organs that someone can calmly accept those statements, that someone was a 14-year-old official, that he had a public office, and that I said that he worked in Jordan for four years and that his wealth came from staying in Jordan and working in Jordan for four years. So I don't believe in that kind of statement. It seems that our bodies are not wise enough and are not worthy enough to sanction such a thing, given the famous reform of the 2009 judiciary, and when someone acquires a 200-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-related family, which this law sanctions buys a house on Tatar Hill, which is worth over 500,000 euros to a brother, when someone during their function, and only from 2000 to 2014 came into public office, had no other business in that period, if they bought an apartment worth over half a million euros in Vienna, then they asked the question – what was happening during the rule of the former regime, or not only how they ruled, but how the courts who are the same subject of today's debate, sanctioned that kind of behavior. If someone still bought a 100-square apartment, parts of an MM salad, if someone bought more in Novi Sad, there's a floor there somewhere, etc. Then the question arises – how did someone perform a public function create millions, so tens of millions of euros, and no other job was done except for the public business, and that they had no family business, nor had he done any other work before the post, since I had already mentioned that he was a student at the time. This law on local officials and provinces adequately prevents such behaviour from being repeated in the future. In this regard, I must say that the previously appointed vice president of the former regime party and former vice president of the province government and former president of the 12 years of the Indji municipality except for all these powerful squares, etc. He became the owner of a dairy factory, and I think another factory in southern Serbia. The open question arises – whether public work, whether the local officials then used their functions to create for themselves, their relatives, their families, their mothers, their brothers what other honest citizens failed to do, so that in the time of general segregation and looting, officials provided themselves with huge benefits by public means. Today, they almost have everything and these former officials and their friends now have everything and can't possibly be those who can understand the ones they left without anything, wanting first of all to rob the people and to raise huge resources, to deal with public functions. This law sanctions it properly and I will certainly vote for all these proposals. But this way I also appeal to sanction the behaviour of members of the party of the former regime and officials, which on the local self-government, which in the AP Vojvodina, regardless of which parties they are from, and I think should sanction not only the crime that took place, but also the crime that could happen. The court's task is to determine the truth, what's been going on here, but in the future, any attempted crime should be sanctioned to punish the guilty and protect the innocent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52367	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52368	Thank you. Given that no one has referred to the report of the Committee on Culture, and as regards the candidate for REM members, I, as a member of the Committee on Culture, have the obligation to inform the Assembly additionally of the course of events and of the talks held with candidates for this body. Namely, for candidates proposed by the competent board of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina and the churches and religious communities, a discussion was organised with the members of the Committee. After their address, MPs touched on the current topics related to REM, and it concerns realising programmes, upcoming elections and regulatory frameworks for the REM Council. Candidates have shown a high level of understanding of the problem, as well as assurances from individual candidates that the existing legislation still provides more opportunities for more active and more stringent REM response than previously. From Mrs Barovic and Isakov, the initiative was heard to move forward with the state-of-the-art in our electoral media, that this is an opportunity to change the way REM works, and that the existing law should be applied. Of course, all their words encourage you. Unfortunately, despite the impressive biographies and the accompanying SVs, good ideas and enthusiasm of most candidates, it happened, probably accidentally, but perhaps not, a failure that disqualified the person who said it as a candidate for the REM Council, an independent body elected by this Assembly. I will remind the MPs that a member of the REM Council cannot, among other things, be a person who performs his duties in a political party. All the candidates have made written statements that this condition meets, and I suppose so. There is no formal membership in any party, but there is a speech with clear political definitions, there is a shown, unhidden satisfaction that the times of those former ones have passed, it is thought of the former government, because as the candidate said in the election campaign, there were no decent conditions for campaigning for anyone but one political party. With the undiscovered satisfaction that the situation has changed now, the same candidate for the REM Council says that for now, the inter-party way of communication is very civilized, and that, above all, thanks to the activity of the speaking prime minister, I quote – in such a way that it educates people how decent communication should look. Is it too much of a wish for Ms. Aleksandre Jankovic to enter the REM Council by raising the satisfied members of the Committee on Culture from the part of the Assembly's majority - I don't know, but I know that this is the kind of presentation of candidates for REM members in front of religious communities, does not guarantee the impartiality necessary to possess a candidate for REM Council members. The candidates for REM members shall not represent the views or interests of the authorities or organisations that proposed them, but shall carry out their duties according to their own knowledge and conscience in accordance with this law. Candidates for REM members must show that they can resist various pressures that they will undoubtedly be. They should show their independence, which is secured by the election right here in the Serbian Parliament. Secondly, I disagree with the position of REM candidate Aleksandar Jankovic, who claims that inter-party communication is now very civilized, as he said thanks to the prime minister who speaks in such a way as to educate people about how decent communication should look. I wonder if this candidate is a member of the REM Council of the Electronic Media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52369	The word has a National MP, Sinisa Maksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52370	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, Ms. Minister with Associates, dear fellow MPs, today I will talk about the draft law on employees in the AP and units of local self-government in the framework of this joint principle and uniform search. For an integral legal arrangement, the issue of employees in the bodies of local self-government, i.e. municipalities and cities and branches of the AP has been pending since 2005 when the Law on civil servants and deputies passed. The law regulated the position, rights and obligations of employees in the authorities of the state administration, courts, prosecutors, the republican defences, the government, the National Assembly, the Constitutional Court. This law did not regulate the status of non-state officials and what is significant for us from local self-government, then no comparison was introduced and a law governing the status of employees and officials in the AP and units of local self-government. So far, the Law on Labour Relations in State Authorities has been applied to local self-government. The law we are discussing today needs to fill this legal gap and complete the legislative framework for the whole public sector. As the strategic objective of this government is to create a professional, responsible and efficient public administration, I see the adoption of this law as a basis for creating a starting legal basis for equating the status of all employees in the public sector, and one position is also the basis for greater professionalism, greater responsibility and motivation for employees to make public interest by doing their original but trusted jobs of the state. We say that every regulated state rests on a good, professional, depolitical and motivated administration, and we agree that the work of the administration makes good and enforceable laws. There is a very important role in parliament because a clear legal-technical, precise law reduces space for different practices, reduces space for corruption as well. Officials in the authorities of local self-government and AP, but especially other public services, are often charged with being inefficient, slow and incompetenced. It's not a rule, but citizens who exercise their rights very often resent waiting on counters, waiting for solutions, dealing with state authorities and services. There are reasons to ensure, above all, further motivation of employees in the local and employees of AP authorities to work more professionally and more responsibly. These preconditions should also provide for this law by providing opportunities for additional education, the classification of the same jobs and the same pay groups, as well as by increasing the responsibilities of employees for work. This law should be released under the Public Sector Payments System Act. In this respect, it may have been necessary to install provisions relating to the job catalogue because it must be the basis for staff plans and job systematization and local self-government authorities and the AP authorities, as well as services and organisations whose founders they are. The text of this law lays down provisions of the Law on civil servants and deputies with a view to equating employment conditions, status, rights, obligations, but also the responsibilities of public sector employees at all levels. The introduction of a service system and at the level of units of local self-government and employees at the site will give them greater opportunities to advance their career through the monitoring and evaluation of the results of their work, i.e. evaluation. The law extends employment criteria, introduces titles as state officials, and thus increases the chances of developing their work and compulsory professional training. This is the way to a professional and independent and modern public administration that should become a service to citizens, a service to tax bonds. The law also regulates issues of disciplinary responsibility for employees, conflict of interest, as well as the right of public sector employees to organise themselves trade unionally. The protection of employees' rights through appeal and administrative proceedings is also regulated, and it is particularly important to protect employees from mobbing at work. Officials are obliged to respect basic principles, the principle of legality, impartiality and political neutrality in their work. In this way, it is ensured that job officials from their job description must be executed on the basis of the Constitution, laws and other regulations. The law also stipulates that no one should influence an officer to do anything and does not do otherwise. The official must not work for expression and represent his political beliefs. The employees are obliged to respect both the principle of responsibility for their work and the results of their work. It is not always easy to measure the results of each administrative and professional work in the public administration and therefore it will be very important and impartial to assess work by direct managers. We who have worked and work still in the bodies of local self-government know perfectly what a professional, efficient, reliable associate means. I use this opportunity to commend all state and local officials who work hard and professionally, who are committed to their work and profession and who are honorable and valuable earning their salary, and she, we must admit, is sometimes not always adequate. By applying this law, the Law on the Public Sector Payments System, especially in the work establishing the catalog of jobs, we expect better organised functional and professionally efficient and adequately paid state administration, which citizens, i.e. taxpayers, will not see as a burden, but as an efficient service capable of resolving their requirements quickly and professionally. In the end, I would like to say that the SPS MP group in Voting Day will support this bill's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52371	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52372	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to say that I strongly support all the proposed acts in today's agenda, but that in the discussion I will look back, that is, to the proposal for a law on employees in autonomous provinces and units of local self-government. Of course, I'm sorry that the representatives of the former regime are not with us today, that they gave up the discussion, that they gave up the presence of today's session. It's probably a lack of arguments, or maybe they had better things to do, but it's something they'll have to explain to their voters. The law on employees in autonomous provinces and units of local self-government is, as you yourself said, Mrs. Udovici, a long-awaited law, or law that has caused a lot of public interest. I must say that I have also asked parliamentary questions on several occasions to your ministry, as well as to the employment of bodies, or local self-government units in a city municipality, and it is the Vračar municipality and it is the abuses. What I am most interested in when it comes to this law, which is in principle very well regulated, especially in the view of both Article 76 and Article 75, so, the Staff Plan, the preparation of the Staff Plan, etc., but also in Article 68, which regulates the duration of the employment relationship, and especially the working relationship to indefinite time and afterwards in cases of working relationship to a certain time. What interests me most is, did we find this law an opportunity to deal with the abuses that have been happening so far, in the case of Belgrade's Vračar municipality? In fact, the Emergency Control Department of the Budgetary Inspection of the Ministry of Finance has found that Vracar City Municipality employs as many as 40 people over the previous two years, despite the fact that the government of the Republic of Serbia has banned further employment in the public sector. Forty people have changed at the post of assistant president of the Vracar municipality without the government's consent, by the way. 27 of them were employed by being first appointed to a permanent post, such as the assistant president of the city municipality, but were soon relieved of those functions, so that according to then applicable law, or laws, they could be deployed to other jobs and were thus almost legitimately designed to create a new permanent working relationship, but elsewhere within the municipal administration. Well, according to that principle, officials with high or even lower expertise than assistants of the president of the municipality, practically from the right hand of a president of a city municipality, then arrived at the municipal administration at the offices of accountants, couriers and what I know about your workplace. When it comes to the Vračar municipality, things are further dramatic, for the simple reason why it has taken a really huge situation. So 27 assistants rotated at that function. I don't want to mention the case, or the situation that we've come into, which is that there's been an increase in staff expenditure, because the one who stops being the assistant president of the city's municipality has the right to receive compensation for another three months even if he doesn't perform that function. The irresponsibility of the leadership of Vračar City Municipality, decorated in the Democratic Party, is something we must find a way to cope with. I know that DS is going to lose in the next election at the Wizard, and that's not the issue, that's not the problem. My question is, are we going to find an institutional way to deal with this kind of abuse permanently and get in the way of it? I wouldn't be too long. I'd like you to answer me, but I repeat, what I think is most important is that this law establishes depolitisation, departementisation and professionalization of local self-government. I would agree with a previous speaker who pointed out the principle that the municipality must become a citizen service and that is what the SNS insists on, but as a major point for the end, I would stress the need for further development of all capacities for the full application of this law in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52373	Thank you. The word is by MP Mirjana Djokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52374	The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister with associates, fellow MPs, we are talking very comprehensively today about a law governing the system in the field of working relations, as regards employees in autonomous provinces and units of local self-government. The previous period and the granting of organisational autonomy to the autonomous province and local self-government were followed by non-transparent political staffing processes, and this certainly resulted in excessive employment and the bringing of a loyal party staff with inadequate qualifications and competences to work in the authorities and services of the province and local self-government. Over time, authorities have seen that good handling is necessary at local self-government level, in the context of improving the quality and efficiency of our professional services, because these services have contacts with citizens on a variety of basis, and so we can best see how close we have been to our service users, whose service we are. The adoption of laws establishing the principles of the official system meets the basic assumption of full professionalisation and depolitisation of personnel in autonomous provinces and units of local self-government. The aim of the adoption of this law is to perform quality, political neutral and ethically acceptable official affairs in the jurisdiction of local self-government in the public interest. The point of law-making is that through a standardised system of evaluation of the work of officials in local self-governments and autonomous provinces, their status with the status of employees in state bodies is uniform. As regards filling jobs, the efficient work of units of local self-government is conditioned by the quality and optimal number of employees performing tasks under their jurisdiction. How do you get to the best? Well, it's necessary that first all places are equally accessible to everyone. Also, it is necessary to carry out selections of interested candidates, and as we always know what are the specificities of the jobs the candidates applied for, we will provide for it with a human resources plan and get to precisely those candidates who can meet the requirements of the requested positions. It would be good not to keep the practice of certain local self-governments where individual officials protect themselves from change in such a way that the conditions of competition are such that absolutely no one can meet the required conditions, so they become irrevocable. We are absolutely clear on how competitions are being held - by the appointment of a panel of three members who are in charge of the regularity of the candidate's election. But I am taking the opportunity to point out the question – how many commissions are formed by employees in one administration to make the right choice? The easiest and best variant is to use the National Employment Service services, which is performed professionally and professionally by the staff selection, so that the commission remains in the category "fully meeting the conditions of the competition" to select certain candidates. This law that we are talking about today also addressed the issue of human resources management, starting with Articles 187 to 190. A very important segment under this law, as it has proved in practice to be the imminent keeping of personnel records of the ability and structure of the employees at the disposal of an autonomous province or local self-government units. Otherwise, this law would have to resolve an inadequately resolved process of establishing a working relationship, a lack of selection that would allow the selection of the best candidates, a calling system that has been introduced in connection with the classification of jobs, a system of progress that does not rest on the complexity and responsibilities of jobs, i.e. the results of work, as well as the systemic disorientation of professional career development and career advancement in the service. The fact that we will have a more professional and efficient local self-government is that in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, in the division of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, 800,000 dinars for compensation of members of the Council for professional training of employees in local self-government units were designed. Also, in this law, members 164 to 168 have a special place, and they refer to the special rights of officials for whose work the need has ceased. If the unit of local self-government is abolished and its affairs are taken over by another unit of local self-government, it also takes over officials from local self-government units that have been abolished on the day of the entry into force of the law on its abolition. What do I want to pay attention to here first? First of all, I am taking the opportunity to point out that it is necessary to make sure that we rule out the possibility that unsatisfactory workers who are left out of work after this launch lawsuit requests, and if we have a breach of the labour obligation, then certainly the dispute is resolved in favour of local self-government. But if we have a situation that we sort of wronged the employee, then he's going to make a very big claim by raising the suit, let's say, the amounts that local self-government is bound to make up for tomorrow. So I just want to appeal that when we quit and declare certain faces for technological surpluses, we make sure that all legal conditions are met maximum. In the voting day, with my colleagues from the SNS parliamentary group, I will certainly support this legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52375	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52376	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Madam Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, by giving autonomy to the AP and local self-government in the past, we have often witnessed that this work has been often followed by non-transparent processes in political cadation, including the overtime that my fellow SNS MPs have been talking about here today. And not only that, but bringing in party personnel, but often inadequate qualifications and unnecessary, or competences that they did not have to work in bodies and services, both the AP and local self-government units. Therefore, the adoption of this law on employees in the AP and units of local self-government is one of the preconditions and one of the first-class tasks for modernising services for both AP employees and local self-government. That, ladies and gentlemen, will also contribute to modernising our country, and will be carried out by Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic and the entire government, as well as the entire SNS. The government inherited the country from the former regime's party in a catastrophic state. The country was on the verge of bankruptcy and collapse and only true reforms could bring the country out of the crisis. That is why the Prime Minister, on April 27th, in his exhibition on page five, said, quote, one sentence – unless, as Government, we modernise the country, we will fail Serbia. It's a finished quote. Respected MPs, following the destruction of the country's vital functions by the former regime, in particular the financial and economic system, are not easy to modernise or reform in Serbia. The Prime Minister knew that too, so on the same page, he said, I quote - I am aware that those who will continue to speak against reforms from the beginning of the new government, but at the same time I am ready to accept on myself all the weight of reforms and I am deeply convinced that the consequences of the survival of the same unchanged state are frightening for our country. It's a finished quote. That really was a fact. He has accepted the burden of reforms that are being implemented and no one can stop the reforms implemented by this government anymore, and our country will pull itself out of the abyss brought by the party of the former regime. That's why, Mr. Vice President, this law is one of the reform laws, both those businesses that we entrusted to the AP and local self-government. All in all, this law is really going to be a modern law. He will strictly lay down rules for who can become a professional official. This government, eventually and ultimately, will be recorded in history that after 25 years, it has imposed legal order on officials in local self-government units. I believe no one from the opposition benches can deny this. Of course I, as well as my colleagues from the SNS, will vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52377	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Excuse me, MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52378	Ladies and gentlemen, a lot has already been said about a law that treats employment in local self-governments and the AP, and I would say that we are in principle in agreement with these and MPs of the government, and MPs of the opposition, that we have a good law in front of us and that it is essentially the continuity of reform policy and those promises that the government made in 2014 when it was built up, and that it is important to help fix the situation in the public administration that has been for many years, I would say even for decades, has not been resolved and in which many problems have accumulated. I think there is serious dissatisfaction with the citizens themselves, and also with the economy, when it comes to the state of local self-government, above all, that many people feel that local self-government is not competent enough, that they are often slow or uninterested in solving citizens' problems, and surely this law will mean significant progress in relation to the situation we have so far. As far as the situation is concerned, of course there are both subjective and objective problems. On the one hand, there is too much policy influence, and on the other hand, the fact that, in terms of regional reasons, there are major regional differences between certain parts of Serbia and between municipalities and the capacity of these municipalities to create and have one local self-government that can fully respond to the interests of the development of these local self-governments. I would say that the law and the legislator and the government itself were both aware and that the solutions given in this law are in the context of solving these main problems. The problems relating to depolitisation mean definitely important for the citizens to know, public and internal competition is being introduced, so it is defined which conditions in certain titles must be met by the candidate and it is possible that everything that has happened so far in local self-government when it comes to employment to a good degree is being reduced, I would not say that everything will be able to do overnight, so there is a ministry to control the application of this law, but the situation will be incomparably better than it was in years that are for us. I wouldn't say much about the solutions that are in this law, I told my colleagues they've already said a lot about the law itself, but I think it's very important that we all understand that a good organization of state administration is literally at all levels. The key to the success of any country, any economy, and what makes the successful countries of the West differ primarily from us is that they have a much better organization in all domains. Therefore, the law itself and its basic quality is that it introduces a uniform that enables better organisation and better control of local self-government. So, unification at the level of all Serbia in all local self-governments when it comes to the calling system, when it comes to the jobs that are being done when it comes to jobs themselves, their write-off and the demands that these jobs require. This is what allows us to, of course, think of the ministry in some future period, be able to run a parallel analysis of local self-government and identify those narrow throats in certain local self-governments, where in certain parts of local self-government we do not have a good or sufficient human resources structure but also where we have too many employees in which we will be able to possibly perform an excellent rationalization which is therefore being resolved systematically. All that has so far been the problems of local self-government and what is simply a lack of insight into the state of the ministry is being eliminated in the good part at this time. So, in the end, I want to say that what we've started and what we're starting with this law is one process that will last, it won't be possible overnight, as the minister herself said, but we're creating a system, a system that will certainly give results, and when it comes to financial effects. Because quality management in local self-government means, in any case, more meaningful spending and such modest means at the level of local self-government. There are many problems, and I believe that we will also have certain legal solutions in this regard. I would like to support this law and invite all MPs to be constructive in the debate on amendments and to adopt this law in as large a number of votes as possible in the voting day as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52379	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52380	Thank you. I am Milija Miletic, and I come from the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, Svrljig municipality, which is next to the most beautiful city in Serbia, which is the town of Nis. Otherwise, in the Serbian Parliament, I represent the United Peasant Party, selected from the Serbian Progressive Party list. I'm going to talk about a law regarding employees in the province and local self-government, since for many years I've also been deputy president of the municipality and president of the Svrlig municipality, so I have a lot of experience regarding the work and functioning of local self-government. As we have heard, from 2005 to today he has served the Law on Civil Servants. We are now specifically entering the process of amending the law, where we will allow certain newspapers to be placed, related to the work of employees in local self-government and in the province. I think this law is appropriate, it's good, and this law gives us the chance that certain things that have not been defined can be solved. There are also opportunities for employees, for those who are officials, appointed, elected and appointed persons, where people are now given the opportunity to have V.D. for the first time. Let's say, the mayor of the municipal administration. These are some new categories related to the sphere of this law. We also have the obligation of certain employed people, when emergency situations are, when their obligations are, how they should work, can get some lower jobs within their knowledge, so that this law is really good quality and good law and gives the opportunity to function more easily and better in local self-government. I'll speak very briefly about the work and functioning of local self-government. I come from the Municipality of Srljig, where there are 22 workers less than there are needs and we have always respected all that – one worker here does several of these jobs. My assignment as president of the municipality and now as a man here in the Assembly representing both the Municipality of Svrljig and the people living in the village and from the village is to invite all those who work in local self-government, officials and those people who do certain other things, who have got this job, that they have to pay much more attention to those people who come to them, with a special emphasis on people who come from the village, rural settlements, that they have to work with these people more seriously, they have to be more tolerated and with a smile they have to solve problems. Because everyone who got that job has to respect it, for that job they have to answer by law, and most of all because of these people, because of people living in the country, I say with accent, for those older ones, they have to pay particular attention to them, and they have to be much more careful about them. As a MP, I will vote for this law and for a set of all other laws, because I think this law will give us the opportunity for local self-government and local self-government employees to work much easier and better, to have all the responsibility for it. This law will help local self-government and AP Vojvodina function more easily. I repeat again, as an MP, I will vote for this law and a set of other laws and I will vote for the other laws proposed and proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I am sure that the government, headed by the prime minister, Mr. Vukic, will have the opportunity to continue this step, and also faster, in the coming period after these rural, local and parliamentary elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52381	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52382	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I wanted to leave my colleague's word, but thank you for the opportunity to finish this session as soon as possible. We have before us a set of one law and several motions for decisions and an authentic interpretation that we should adopt and for which there is support from the SNS Parliamentary Group. Regardless of the large number of amendments, I believe you and the entire government will take a good look at them. I believe that, at least based on those arguments that I could hear today, the law that you have proposed is essentially very good and that you will have support for it in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. What I'd like to talk about, which is a few topics. One is the motion for a decision to relieve the President of the First Basic Court. Mrs. Tanja Shobat, president of Belgrade's First Basic Court, is relieved of the functions of the court's president for breach of the obligations established by the rules on the conduct of the affairs of the judicial administration. I think that with this decision and this motion for a decision to resolve the President of the First Basic Court, and this is the largest basic court in the Republic of Serbia with the highest territorial coverage, one system of responsibility is introduced, a system of responsibility for those who do not do their job properly, because how else can one describe behavior when someone can write for himself overtime hours on the basis of which an increased personal income is obtained, and at those times when the person is present, and in this case, the President of the First Basic Court, even on an annual vacation or on an official trip or on sick leave, were always those overtime hours. I believe that there will be a possible criminal responsibility of the President of the Court and that it will not only stand at this resolution, because it is a system of responsibility that is necessary to bring into our society, into our country and with this responsibility, it is necessary that we all treat the work that has been entrusted to us, whether it is the work of the MP, the minister, the secretary of state, the director of the public enterprise, any functions that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia have sent us to. On the other hand, we also have a list of candidates to elect members of the Board of Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. By law, the officials are the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, which proposes two candidates, as well as, the second proposer, the church and the religious communities that also propose two candidates. What prompted me was the story, and I am sorry that my colleague Karavidic is no longer in the O.R. because I see that out of four candidates she has challenged only one candidate, namely Mrs. Aleksandra Jankovic's candidate, for only one thing, because she praised the relationship of Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic to dialogue on the political and introduction of a more decent and normal dialogue on Serbia's political scene. I am sorry that many other values were not highlighted by Mrs Jankovic, since she graduated from the Faculty of Philosophy, the Department of Psychology, the clinical course with an average of 9.34. For many other things, I don't think I'd have enough time to tell you all about Mrs. Jankovic's values. But this case shows one naked policy of the former regime, no matter what their name is and what aggregate state they were in, and that naked policy is exclusively – we hate Alexander Vukic, we hate even anyone who supports Alexander Vukic. I don't think it leads anywhere, as it would lead anywhere if it presented facts about political arrangements and Mr Sinisha Isakov and Mr Vladimir Varovic and who proposed them in that division of forces in the province's parliament. Who's whose, who suggested who? No, I don't. The Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, or competent committee of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, has the right to propose, and the National Assembly will decide on one of these candidates. Finally, I would like to say a few sentences and a proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the discharge and appointment of members and deputies of the Republic Election Commission, which I have also had the honour and pleasure to propose on behalf of the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group, as the first among the equals, having the pleasure to chair this group here for two years and in this way, in these last days of this Tenth year, I am extremely grateful to my colleagues and colleagues, primarily for the effort, pawnage, work, collegiation and quality that they have shown in the previous years, and for that I will remember these two years as one of the most beautiful years of my life, and therefore truly thank you. Thank you. The Serbian Progressive Party, as responsible MPs, has estimated that it is not celibate to replace the president and members of the Republic Election Commission who resigned, especially as it is a matter of uncontested professional and experienced people. As a result, it was decided that the Republic of the Election Commission should implement the upcoming parliamentary elections, followed by the appointment of a new Republic Commission, in line with the new schedule of MPs per parliamentary group, i.e. according to the electoral will shown by citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the upcoming snap parliamentary elections. It is an undivided view of all experts in constitutional and parliamentary law, and I will state to you, primarily, Mr. Professor. Orlovic, that the member of RIK who resigned, was still in office until it was resolved by the National Assembly. Accordingly, the president and members of the RIK who resigned and were not resolved were able to participate fully in the work of the RIK. However, some media have questioned the legitimacy of the RIK member who resigned and was not resolved by the National Assembly. In order to warn all speculations regarding the legitimacy of RIK members, who have resigned, we have decided to resolve them again as highly professional and experienced people, we propose and appoint them to conduct the upcoming parliamentary elections. What their fate will be, as members of the RIK and the president of RIK, will of course depend on the electoral will of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and for the SNS, the electoral will and will of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia is a sanctity that we will always respect, but we will fight to earn this will and trust by the reform policy led by the president of the SNS and the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Aleksandar Vucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52383	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled single search, I ask whether the Presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want the word or anyone else who has not used their right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word has a minister, Dr. Korri Udovicki.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52384	I would just like to thank all MPs for a very constructive discussion today in this debate in principle and to express my confidence, that we will soon pass a law that is really progressing for Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-01-0.u52385	According to Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint general and uniform search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 1 to 11 of the agenda. According to Article 101(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that we are terminating the work of the First Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly in 2016 and that tomorrow, on 2 March 2016, the First Special Session of the National Assembly will be held in 2016, starting at 10.00 hours, where the National Assembly is scheduled to consider a proposal to elect a member of the Government. I also inform you that the first session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016 will continue tomorrow, on Wednesday 2 March 2016, at 19.35 hours. So, the continuation of this session is tomorrow at 7.35 p.m. Thank you.
