ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3272	Thank you. Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask a question for REM and the director of RTS. How many minutes does the Albanian minority in Serbia belong to state television? That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3273	Thank you. The word is Nenad Milic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3274	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I have a question for Interior Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. A lot of words have been spent on the event since 4 April of this year, so I'm going to try not to repeat what's already been asked, but to ask something new. What I'm interested in is what was done in the police on the night of April 24th on Herzegovina Street? I wonder if any disciplinary action has been initiated against any members of the internal affairs authority? If a disciplinary procedure has been initiated, has it been completed, what is the outcome of this disciplinary procedure or if a disciplinary procedure has not been initiated, have the necessary checks and verifications been established that there are no elements to initiate the disciplinary procedure? I can get an answer to this question, I hope quickly, because when it comes to the disciplinary responsibility of the members of the MUP is not about any official secret, we don't have to wait for any investigation of the prosecution, which we hope is strictly about professional responsibility of members of the Ministry of the Interior. The answer to this question, I hope it will arrive within the next few days. And here's a brief explanation why I personally think that's an extremely important question. In fact, I'm pretty sure that tonight someone called and said that, say, in Mirieva, a group of masked people, armed people deprived of the freedom of the passersby, took away their mobile phones so that every available police officer could figure out what it was about, to determine whether they were right about the citizens, so if they were quite sure that the state summit would meet right away and decide how to behave in that case. Why am I saying this again? Because a group, an organized group of unbalanced, armed people, I don't claim to be, but such a group of people to me...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3275	I'm asking my fellow MPs to be quiet so we can talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3276	... to me such a group and the first association for everyone, I think and police beginners whether in that case it's terrorism. When an armed group of people who are unformed who are not members of any official state body, destroys buildings and deprives citizens of their freedoms, these are all characteristics of terrorism. To be honest, I'm amazed that the press texts on the tabloids can be a cause for coups, and this is the case I think those who say there were attempts to bring down the government, maybe even right, we'll know of course when the prosecution ends its investigation. I'm just afraid their address to those they address is wrong. They didn't destroy the state and the government didn't destroy those who asked what happened that night. The state and the government may have once again, destroyed only those who acted as such that night as, and that's a coup if the state authorities don't do their job, those state authorities who don't want to question it. They're threatening the state and they're tearing down the government, they're tearing down the prime minister. I think it's an extraordinary question, and I hope to get an answer from the minister soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3277	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3278	I thank the esteemed chairman, honourable fellow MPs, for asking a question for the minister of justice and for the government of the Republic of Serbia regarding a public debate on the Civil Code Draft. The public debate period was set on June 26th last year by July 1st and the issue I ask directly – when the civil code will be found before the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or before the MPs of the Republika Srpska Assembly. The bill is also very important, as it addresses many important issues from the everyday life of our citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but it also addresses a very important area and one problem that Serbia has been facing in recent years, which is a negative natural growth. So in Serbia last year we had the biggest negative natural growth in the last 70 years, less of us were born by 38,000 than the citizens of the Republic of Serbia died and this is the biggest problem Serbia faces today. The beginning and end of each policy must be the creation of a new life, and construction and roads and railways and schools, kindergartens and world relations are something that should be behind it. So I have the impression that so far the government has not found the answers to how to combat a negative rate of natural society and that the civil code may be one of the solutions to how to deal with this problem. On the other hand, I must say that the government's results are such that after Bulgaria, Serbia is another country in Europe with the most negative rate of natural growth, and that is something that must certainly change and something that we, today dealing with politics in Serbia, should warn the state and movement in the country. We lose one city every year from 30,000 to 40,000 inhabitants. The second question I want to ask, I'm asking Minister Zlatibor Loncar in light of the catastrophic tragedy that took place at Loznička Hospital, which concerns a similar case that took place on August 10th at Krushevac Hospital. So on August 10th, a young man from 22 years of age who received a diagnosis of fever at the request of parents was treated at the Clinical Centre in Belgrade where he died on the same night with a diagnosis of sepsis. I'm asking Minister Loncaru's question - has an investigation been carried out in this case? Has it been established that there is someone's responsibility, because these are things that are not supposed to happen in Serbia today? With the utmost respect for the medical profession and ethics and the safe and professional doctors we must also take care of our citizens and these cases that have started happening in our health system. So once again, the question concerns whether an investigation was launched and whether there was a responsibility if there was a death of a boy who died on August 10th and was treated at a hospital in Krusevec? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3279	Thank you. The word is made by MP Sanda Raskovic Ivić.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3280	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I have two questions today. My first question is for the Minister of Education and for Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic - why has the name "Rasko Nemmanic Sava" at "Bin Zajed Alnajhan" been changed in Novi Pazar? I understand that schools in most Muslim communities are named after some Muslim giant who represents something to the people. But indeed, President UAR represents nothing to anyone in Serbia, not to Muslims, not to Bosniaks, not to Serbs, not to anyone else. Is that the name of the school changed in the context of a project of changing the consciousness of the Serbian people? I ask openly - why and why so humiliating? My second question is for self-government minister Ana Brnabic and indirectly for Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic, but this time as SNS president – do they know what's going on in Prepolje? Since June, when the new promotional power came to Prepolje, only affairs have been born that feed the newspaper and the tabloids. There immediately the first step of the president of the municipality was to buy new angry furniture for his cabinet, which arrived in the cabinet two days before the tender was completed. Then, the deputy president distributed five million dinars of funds for people at risk from natural disasters. There's a list of those who got allegedly funds. However, there are no signatures, and many people have rebelled and said they didn't get absolutely anything. Yesterday was held a session of the Prepolje municipality, which had 12 points, very little time to discuss it, but the bottom line was that six directors of public enterprises and the director of home health were replaced. They say these people were professional, professional and more very well and properly doing their job. They didn't get better in their places, he came for example. for the director of the home culture, a man who has a two-year business school and who hasn't spent a single minute in culture, and we know that if someone wants to be the director of a home culture he has to have a college and he has to have a college and he has to have three years of working experience in culture. A man who does not know any foreign language came to be the director of the Tourist Organisation of Prepolje, although it is by law that an excellent and active knowledge of a world language is required. These affairs, of course, have many more, but it's time for me to talk about them. The Prosecution Department is silent. I ask why the D.A.'s office is silent even though numerous criminal charges have been filed? We recommend that Mr. Vukic and Minister Ani Brnabic be very interested in what is going on in Prepolje to prevent this affair and this one real madhouse that was created there. I note that Prepolje is a multinational environment and every affair, especially one that lasts long, can in a multinational environment cause national turbulence. However, no matter what I recommend they deal with the Preferno, I don't think there's gonna be anything out of that job, counting on it being seven months, or six full months from Savala, and we haven't found anything yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3281	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3282	Dear Chairman, distinguished fellow MPs, I would like to open a series of very specific issues in our National Assembly today an extremely important topic of cutting the status of Serbs in the region and dissipating. My question with a desire to get a series of extremely important notifications for the further work of our parliamentary group is addressed to Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic. So, first of all, I am interested – what is the state of Serbs in the region, their human, national, minority, religious and any other rights? Just because we get answers to these questions in writing, I want to get a serious written analysis if the Foreign Ministry is doing this seriously, so what is the situation of Serbs in the region? Can they get double citizenship here in Serbia? Do they have Serbian language classes in the countries there? Is there any respect for our language, our letter? Do we have any media in Serbian that serve to inform our countrymen in the former Yugoslav republics? What is their status in the countries there? Yes, and do they even have the status of a national minority, a constituent people, or do they have no status at all? How we stand in the former Yugoslav republics and surrounding countries in the environment at all, especially when it comes to reciprocity that should be respected, and definitely not respected because members of national minorities in Serbia have extremely good conditions for respecting their national identity and their own minority policies at all, and that is not disputed. It is a dispute that our government, that our state, that the Foreign Ministry is not engaged that our countrymen in their country of origin have the same rights. That's why I'm interested – how do Serbs live in Slovenia? Why don't they have national minority status there while ten times fewer Slovenians have it in Serbia? How do Serbs live in Croatia? How do Serbs live, say, in Albania? We see these days of extraordinary encounters between Edi Rama and Aleksandr Vukic, but no one will say that Serbs in Albania are forbidden to be called to – ic, that they do not have conditions for the basic protection of national identity and that in all our great friendship with Albania, the prime minister could sometimes remember the status of Serbs in Albania who are truly disproved under the Albanian regime in Tirana. Of course, the situation in Montenegro is similar. A similar situation is in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. We want to hear simply everywhere in the environment, BiH, the Federation of BiH a clear and precise report, i.e. a notification of the status of Serbs in the surrounding, especially the former Yugoslav republics. Again, the same question for the same foreign minister is – what is the state and status of this state of Serbs in dissipation? Can they get easier citizenship than the Prime Minister announced in his exposé? When will they finally be relieved of voter rights, because hundreds of thousands and perhaps millions of Serbs across the diaspora vote barely a few thousand, which is probably not a problem for all of you, and it is obvious that you are disabling the vote of Serbs in the diaspora? We are also interested – what is the status of investors from the dissipation? Do they have any benefits from this country when they want to invest and return and invest their capital? What's the status of additional schools? Are there any extra schools abroad? Any students? Are the competitions scheduled to be held this year for all those associations of Serbs in the region and the dispersion that have good and concrete projects to develop and preserve, say, national identity in the division? Why has the Serb Assembly not functioned for years in the region and the dissipation that is constitutionally, or legally established in this country and why its president is in V.D. A condition that's been back for years? Does anyone, in fact, from the top of this government want to disable the functioning of this congregation? Is it really the problem of all the problems that we are talking about here, that we have abolished the Ministry of Diaspora and Serbs in the region, then abolished the Office for Diaspora and Serbs in the region, and two years has not been elected director of the Department of Diaspora at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? When will this director be elected? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3283	Thank you. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3284	I thank the chairman. Mr. Arsic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished citizens, the destruction of the Savamala and the granting of permission to be committed in a crime scene and where violence was committed, issued a permit to build a parking lot. In the most picturesque way, it describes the vision of the city of Belgrade's society and vision by the SNS. This is proof that the whole project is "Belgrade on Water", in fact, a wild construction project. Wild construction is a derelict of procedures and the rule of law and wild construction today, not only "Beeding on water", but in many parts of Serbia is what SNS calls Serbia's development. What's done is illegal, violent, rude, rude. It continues with the obstruction of a criminal investigation committed in Savala on the night between April 24th and 25th. I'll remind you, that's when dozens of thugs with phantoms and baseball bats intimidated citizens and destroyed someone's private property, someone's roof over their heads, and kidnapped a man, took his cell phone, and at the invitation of frightened citizens, the police didn't want to react. My question is to refer to the MUP of the Republic of Serbia, which is why the police are still obstructing the investigative process, and why is more of the public prosecutor's office in Belgrade, the same investigative procedure that can, by law, not take over in its jurisdiction? What has been waiting six months for something called an investigation into violence and a series of crimes that started on 24 April this year? Chapters 23 and 24 have been opened. Chapters concerning the rule of law and respect for the rule of law and law. This will certainly be a road braker, Serbia's Eurointegration. And, I think it is necessary over time to prevent the issue of parking permits in a place where someone's private property was held, under number one and number two, from being obstructed by the police to get the prosecution to investigate, when it comes to crimes that took place in that part of Belgrade. The Democratic Party, of course, will not give up on the issue of who organised it, who ordered it and who made it possible to destroy someone's private property, intimidated Serbian citizens and, of course, kidnapped a man who died in the meantime as the only witness to this crime. Until the responsibility of those who did this is determined, Serbia cannot become a legally regulated country. Also while the City of Belgrade issues permits and has been accused of taking part in the execution of these crimes. Serbian citizens will not observe this peacefully. You've ruled out this institution case and left it to the citizens to fight alone with the Constitution guaranteed rights, for the rule of law, and I don't think that's good. The last time you did that happened on October 5th. I ask you to be smarter this time than you were in the 1990s and that the government of the Republic of Serbia respects the institutions of the system and the state, that the police do their job, that the prosecution does its job and that we never again allow non-violent social changes, because I think that they are in any case holding back Serbia's further development when it comes to the lack of respect for the rule of law which is the fundamental fluid of European values that are pursued by the Republic of Serbia. Savamala remained a spot in the last 10 years in Serbia unremembered when police did not want to answer citizens' calls. When the communal police took part in an indirect manner in the execution of this crime by refusing to go out in the field. We think it's unacceptable and we won't give up until I get an answer from who ordered it and who organized the destruction of the facility in Savamala. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3285	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3286	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'd like to ask a few questions. First, what the state and the competent authorities will do for the establishment of a new Agrobank where public debt is founded a new Agrobank, and thus damaged shareholders of the previous Agrobank, which is likely to win a dispute with the state. My question is, what the state has taken on this issue and whether shareholders will be compensated by the sale of Governor Soskovic's assets, the sale of Nikezic's assets, junior and senior property and the sale of Boris Tadic's assets, which are the most responsible for Agrobank and the establishment of a new Agrobanka. That's the first question. The second question concerns illegal destruction, but legally built objects, not three illegally built sheds, but from 2003 and 2004, my question is who is responsible and when the authorities will bring us justice for the destruction of Voždovac near the Blue Bridge, 96 illegally built objects, mainly craftsmen, small shops, craftsmanship and so on. This has also resulted in some fatalities, and therefore my question, if the state authorities are to determine the responsibility of illegal destruction to proceed in order and to be held accountable by those who caused the victims to destroy craftsmanship at the Blue Bridge. The following is my question, and it was asked to the Government and the Ministry of Agriculture, is it true that the Association of Agricultural Economists, and this looks like the payment of the rackets, on January 13, 2011 and on what basis are two million 548 thousand, 346 dinars and 40 pairs? Is it true that Dusan Petrovic paid off the same Association of Agricultural Economists on 22 September 2011, those who are now not cooperating with the yellows, a million 826 thousand 256 dinars and 60 pairs? Is it true that Dusan Petrovic, as Minister of Agriculture and on the basis of October 28, 2011, paid those who do not co-operate with yellows, a million 500 thousand, zero 24 dinars? Is it true that in 2012, the same minister paid off the Association of Agricultural Economists, that society is run by one who knows agriculture better than I do, and I see that he knows much better, 800 thousand, zero 39 dinars and 89 pairs? Also, my question is this, is it the leaders of the Association of Agricultural Economists, the People's MP and who, paid for on 16 August 2013, are those who do not cooperate with us, by then Minister 517 000,329 dinars for five working days? Four thousand and 500 euros, meaning 900 euros a day, I don't think Leprechaun Brenna made that much money at her best. Is it true that the same leader was signed and the contract annex was signed and that I was quoted as being scratched by the so-called old project and how much the state cost? Also, I would like to answer the question of how many usurped areas after the entry into force of the new Agricultural Land Act in Vojvodina were brought into force, how many usurperers paid for themselves and how many usurped areas were removed after the entry into force of the new law, since members of the former regime claimed that there were no usurped areas in Vojvodina? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3287	Thank you. The word is by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3288	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the basis of Article 287(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, as an authorised representative of the MP group, have been sufficient, I demand from the Minister of Industry, as well as Minister of Mining and Energy, notification and explanation of the losses in RTB Bor, during 2014, 2015 and the first nine months of 2016. According to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Article 287 paragraph 5 of that person's requested notice and explanation should be delivered in writing within the specified time limit. The explanation – RTB Bor management, with the support of the top government of the Republic of Serbia, in continuity deceives the public with dazzled stories about the alleged prosperity of RTB Bor in its bright future. The truth is on the opposite side, despite huge investments, large losses are made year by year, which are brought down on the burden of taxpayers. The program of revitalization of the mining reconstruction of metallurgical capacities in RTB Bor, was realized with catastrophic consequences. 450m euros have been spent, and losses in the production order of 50m to 100m euros per year have been achieved for many years. In recent years, the low price of copper on the market has deteriorated significantly. Instead of the announced profitable business and profits of several hundred million dollars a year, unofficial information suggests that in 2014, a loss of about $153m, or 116m, respectively, and in 2015, 126m and 114m euros, respectively, totalling $267m, respectively. The expected loss in 2016 will be about the same level as in previous years. This averages $10m per month, i.e. in January, in September about $90m or 81m euros, which will raise the total loss rate from 2014 to today to about $357m, or 311m euros. The conditioned, pre-prepared reorganisation plan for RTB Bor is not realistic. The write-off of nearly a billion euros was conditioned by meeting the planned debt repayment programme, worth 50m euros annually, within seven years, after a year of grace periods, with expected losses from the current business. Starting in 2018, losses will rise to $150m per year, making positive business absolutely impossible. The real goal of the so-called UPPR is to buy time and satisfy the personal interests of a couple of individuals at the top of the government of the Republic of Serbia and RTB Bor, who eventually wants the company to continue operating in an extremely irregular manner, relying on the budget of the Republic of Serbia. In such blurred conditions, personal and party benefits are derived which are the sole objective of individuals from the current government in the operation of RTB Bor. It is not possible to produce copper at the price of $9,000 per tonne, sell it at $5,000 per tonne, cover all business costs and pay off $50m a year's debts. Such a hoax was not earned by the citizens of Bor, Majdanpek and Serbia. This should be added that starting in 2018, due to the paying off of the annuity, the cost of cost will rise to over $10,000 per tonne of produced copper, because the information available to us does not have the character of official information, as well as due to the forward demand made by the Minister of Economy, as well as the Minister of Mining and Energy, said notice and explanation in hopes of preventing the spread of valuable funds from the budget and defending the vital interests of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Also, I have one more question, same on the basis of Article 287. The Rules of Procedure, which is from the president of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, require an explanation and a request to prevent discriminatory relations with representatives of the parliamentary group. According to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Article 287 of Position 5 of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should deliver the reply in writing the Reason - since the constitution of the 11th Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, according to members of the MP group Enough has been done, continued discrimination is being carried out. To prevent her...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3289	Bring the end, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3290	... The MP group has had enough, from the president of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, asking for the security of an appropriate position in the Assembly Hall of MPs enough of any...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3291	Thank you. The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3292	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have two questions today. First question to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia and to all judges of the Constitutional Court. How was it possible for the Constitutional Court to conclude, under an initiative legally submitted for the examination of constitutionality and legality, that the Brussels Agreements or the first package of Brussels agreements are political acts and therefore not subject to the assessment of constitutionality and legality? If it were just political acts, then they would be at the level of the declaration and not produce any legal consequences. Since these are acts that produce legal consequences, even made in the form of international quasi contracts or quasi of international contracts, it is necessary to make a statement to the Constitutional Court and to all its judges to the National Assembly. And I would like to ask the President of the National Assembly why so far the President of the National Assembly has not scheduled a session of the National Assembly to discuss the legal form and content of both sets of Brussels agreements. The President of the National Assembly has the possibility of a legislative initiative, like any MP, by having the advantage that he can immediately put into the proposed agenda his proposal, and then the Assembly declares whether or not he accepts the agenda. That's really necessary. You can't wait with that anymore. We don't really know what's going on. Some negotiations continued a few days ago, they failed. As for the rights of the Serb national community in Kosovo and Metohija, Albanian separatist authorities have hit it. Albanian separatist authorities are also trying to usurp all property of the Serbian state, have the support of foreign forces, see how this happened and whether it was right for the dialogue between Serbian state authorities and Albanian separatists to possess exclusively EU owners. What country in the world would agree if we were under the pressure of the EU, if we were under the pressure of America, then it was logical that we would accept the conduct of any dialogue, to seek the force of the protector? In the 19th century, Serbia saw a lot of things at the diplomatic table because it had a regular force to protect Russia, and occasionally some other European countries agreed to the role of its force as a protector. Even Austria sometimes appeared in that role. Even England, which has always preferred Turkey rather than Serbia, when it comes to the persecution of the Serb population in Macedonia. There were both Russia and England and France. A Russian ambassador was also killed there because Albanian terrorists from that time under Turkish rule felt that he was the most serious factor that hinders their efforts to completely wipe out the Christian population in Macedonia. The National Assembly must discuss this as soon as possible and take certain attitudes. In this way, the executive authority acts in a way that is contrary to the Constitution, and the judicial authority and the legislative authority are acting as if they are not interested in it at all. Such a condition is unsustainable. It is high time the executive authority submitted a report on what she was doing in connection with the Brussels agreements and their signatures and attempts at their realization. What was in the interest of the Albanians was all of a sudden realized. What's in some small Serb interest isn't even started with realisation.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3293	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Michaelo Jokic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3294	Dear Chairman, honourable MPs, my question was addressed to the Ministry of Justice, i.e. the Department of International Legal Assistance, and concerning the company "New Serbia" which employed about 1,200 workers by 2000, was one of the pillars of development and employment in the town of Valjevo. Today, the "New Serbian" is in bankruptcy. The Commercial Court in Valjevo sent a letter requesting notification of the regulations of the Republic of Bulgaria concerning the following two issues. First question - is it allowed to negotiate penalty points or contractual penalties in the event of non-fulfilment of monetary obligations? Is it allowed to apply the interest rate of the Bulgarian People's Bank to the amount of debt expressed in the euro currency? Why does this matter? This response is important to continue and end a case in which the prosecutor, "New Serbia" Valjevo, is again quoted as being bankrupt. To end this case, I am asking the Department of International Legal Assistance to answer these questions as soon as possible, because this is a condition that all processes that are open, related to the bankruptcy of "New Serbian women". And on the meaning of "New Serbia" I told you that this company, which until 2000, was also an example of employment and business in the city of Valjevo, and today it is "New Serbian", thanks to the authorities since 2000, in bankruptcy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3295	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradovic. We continue to work and move on to a unique search on the 3rd item of the agenda – a proposal for the Law on Confirmation of the Agreements on the Amendments and Supplements to the Loan Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as a borrower and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan, as a borrower, for the financing of the construction of the shares of Ljig- Boljkovci, Boljkovci-Takowi and such a-refuse, of E-763 Autopute in the Republic of Serbia, of 2. FEBRUA 2012 A year. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I inform you that today they are invited to attend today's session: Prof. Dr. Zoran Mihajlović, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, Dr. Dusan Vujović, Finance Minister, Nenad Mijailović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Branko Drcelic, Executive Director of Public Debt Administration at the Ministry of Finance, Predrag Ivanovic, Assistant Director of Public Debt Management, Dragana Ratkovic, Independent Advisor at the Department for the Monitoring of Credit at the Ministry of Finance, Slobodan Kliment, Assistant to the Office of Deputy Prime Minister and Ivan Depotović, Head of the Department of Infrastructure Projects at the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport of Infrastructure. Before opening a single search, I remind you to comply with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups, a relatively large number of MPs, members of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 170. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the bill. I'm now setting a five-minute break until the government's representatives arrive at the National Assembly building. [[After a break.]] We continue to work, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Does the representative of the proposing Dr Dusan Vujovic, the finance minister, want a word? The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3297	Thank you very much. Let me just take a minute. So this is about a very small change in this Agreement, which refers to the maturity of credit funds. It is proposed to extend the deadline by two years, in order to create an opportunity for performers to fully withdraw funds. The moment this extension was submitted, 79.5% of the funds were withdrawn, out of a total of 308m euros. Most of the funds are expected to be withdrawn in the next year, but the additional period is left until 4 May 2018, so that we do not return to the situation later, first of all, because, as you know, this credit is withdrawn by the creditor, the credit fund, the assets of the advance being received directly from us, and the loan is withdrawn directly to Azerbaijan and then the funds are transferred to Serbia's subcontractors, so that it requires some time. That is why we propose to extend the deadline by exactly two years and to achieve the implementation of this project within that time limit, as planned. That's all I have to say about that basic extension. Otherwise, the terms of this loan remain as they were. So, rock so-called rock. the start or grace period has expired and we have already serviced this loan since December 2015. The interest rate remains 4%, 0.5% is so-called. Intercaral interest, i.e. interest on untapped assets. The duration of the loan is 15 years and, as I said, the period of availability extends to four years, as it was in the original contract, to six years, i.e. expires on 4 May 2018. That's all. Because of the loanor's request, i.e. Azerbaijan, in addition to the documents, is given the whole text of the amended Agreement because it is a format in which they are ratified in order to follow the procedure equally with us and the whole text is proposed neatly filled. The change is only in a member relating to the maturity of the credit funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3298	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? (Inemnja Sarovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3299	Mr. Arsic, a member of 106 has been violated and I believe that the dignity of the National Assembly has been injured by Mr. Vujovic. He came to the congregation to explain why he was late, to seek an extension, but first he was obliged to explain why he was late. It is another indicator as far as the executive authority does not respect the legislative, the ministerial's casual relationship, the minister can come from half an hour late, the National Assembly will be waiting for MPs. You were obliged to warn the ministers and you were supposed to offer an explanation for that. I waited for him to finish his presentation in the hope that he would be so polite and say: I apologize to all the messengers of the people for this delay. Two hundred fifty of the people's MPs are bearers of sovereignty. They're the ones who were elected directly by the citizens, and the ministers are the clerks, today you are, tomorrow you're not. However, because of the majority you have, because of the way your predecessors led that assembly, the ministers think they can do whatever they want. They can show up, they can't show up, they can come in at eleven or 12, it doesn't matter, they tell two or three sentences and they say, "Here, come on, you." Therefore, the basic decency and respect of all 250 MPs required at least an apology. I ask you to warn all ministers in the future to come to the National Assembly and wait for order when they will come, and not that you invite them when you think of them and that they come to their senses and that they are taking breaks here. If you're late for reform, hurry up the ministers first.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3300	Since I am obliged to give an explanation, I believe that the ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia have a lot of work to do, and I think that the regret you gave for Mr Vujovic is not standing, and I will explain why. When the 2016 budget was adopted, Mr. Minister sat in this room much more than MPs, I can only say with short breaks until four or five o'clock in the morning. From ten in the morning until the next day, four or five in the morning, and in no way did he underestimate the work of the MPs and actively participated in the discussion. Do the officials of the committees want a word? You're asking for a statement from the Parliament? All right. Mr. Secretary wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3301	I just want to briefly comment on your statement. I followed the transmission from this room closely last night, most people weren't in the O.R. At two o'clock in the morning, it's over and the ten o'clock in the morning has been announced. We changed the whole schedule today to fit this in. I'm sorry I'm late, but I couldn't stop the meeting that was under way. So this is the best we can do to honor both your schedule and our schedule. We couldn't answer any faster, and otherwise, for every more serious delay, I take the blame and I take the advance apology. So this was my desire to follow schedules as you know very heterogeneously. This synergy and these topics were... I've been following your debate with interest. It was almost two hours ago when you concluded and announced a sequel today at ten o'clock. We were ready, but there was an international visit I couldn't postpone, we had to finish the meeting, and I immediately came after that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3302	The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3303	I insist that the minister has no right to criticise the MPs, because when the MP is present in the O.R. or absent...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3304	Just specify a member of the Rules of Procedure. Article 106.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3305	... It's his right. Not coming to the session is politics. When the minister speaks, if I stand up and go out, that's my attitude towards the minister, I have the right to do so. The minister has no such right, as the minister is subject to the National Assembly who has chosen him and must treat him in such a way. This is where you were introduced, it's even more somber, the principle that things have to happen the other way around, that the National Assembly is subject to ministers. It can't be like that. Secondly, Minister Zorana Mihajlovic was supposed to be here today. She's the main culprit for this problem that's being discussed today. I demand that the Vice President of the National Assembly call for a session immediately. When I answer my word, I will only talk about Zorana Mihajlovic and her role in this Corridor and this great scandal, when the public is deceived, that there is no tunnel height of 30 centimeters, they cannot pass the trailer helmets, which is a pure lie. The tunnel's right. I went to check it out. She has to answer about it here. I demand an urgent call, to set a break until she arrives.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3306	Thank you. Prime Minister Zorana Mihajlovic is one of the government's authorised representatives, but the government has decided that one of the government's representatives should be Dr Dusan Vujovic, the finance minister. As you know, it is about the financial law and the responsible Committee for this law, and thus the Ministry, which is controlled by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds. It's the board of directors. (Vojislav Seselj, from the city: She spends these funds. On the second occasion, you will surely have the right to ask her these questions. The word has the People's Messenger Muamer Bacevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3307	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers, the distinguished viewers of this session, for the last five years have marked truly one quality collaboration between the Republic of Azerbaijan and our country, which is commendable for everything. Similar problems, then, one of the hearty support that Azerbaijan in the political sense of consistency, non-recognition and support for Kosovo's status, has probably affected the most that a serious trust is created between this country. Furthermore, it is extremely important to stress that the two countries have really huge potential in co-operation, not only in interstate agreements, but also in the exchange and co-operation of businesses and businessmen from our countries. You know that the overrich Caucasus state of Azerbaijan has experienced an eruption in a positive sense, primarily by exploiting gas from the Caspian Sea and they, practically all indicators show that the country is in the fastest, one of the countries in the fastest development and with a great wealth of their national reserve, amounting to over $24 billion, the development is over 5%, they have almost no unemployment, somewhere below 0.9%. Even 80% of the total profits they have from the gas remain to their country, which is really extremely impressive. Azerbaijan is one of the few countries our country exports more to than it imports. Last year, a number of examples of assistance and the good relationship of the government of Azerbaijan and its representatives to our country were marked. In fact, thanks to the country's donation in our country, the Tasmajdan Park was renovated, there were two large monuments, beautiful monuments, their national representative Gider Aliev as well as our great, famous poet and writer and critic, Professor Pavic. Also, a Bajrakli mosque with their educational auxiliary facilities has been renovated since the country's donation, but also St. Friday's church in Novi Sad. We in Novi Pazar have had the great pleasure that with the help of the government of Azerbaijan, we are truly magnificently restoring our home to a culture that seems truly impressive today, beautiful and truly serving its purpose, and this is the best gift this country could have, this beautiful country that, to the citizens and to the New Market and find countries. But I believe that there was an extraordinary gesture during the flood when the company Azret, which performs practically most of the works on this section of the road that we are discussing today, went to all its facilities and machines to help the flooded, and that the representatives of the embassy, the Azerbaijani-Serbian friendship and the other diplomatic crust in the best way came to help and financially helped flooded areas. What is most important is that the government of Azerbaijan is showing a really great interest in economic investment in the entire Balkan area, and that Serbia is recognized as the main partner there, which can be impotent. This resulted in an extremely high-quality loan from the government of Azerbaijan in 2012, an extremely favourable loan with a grace period of three years that will be paid for 15 years and at an interest rate of 4%, which is indeed a very low rate nowadays. We know that we had other bidders from Turkey, or, for example, from Italy, who were even twice as expensive and were looking for a double interest rate. All of this I am saying is to point out that both then and today's government has made the right move and that today's proposed changes to the laws that the minister himself points to, consisting only of extending the scope and availability of these funds in two years, are something that needs to be supported with the piety, something that is extremely important for the development of our country. The significance of Corridor 11 is enormous. That so-called. The Adriatic highway will really run all those areas it's going through. It has great importance on the macro plan, as it connects several states. It connects Montenegro with Italy from Bulgaria, via Serbia, and that is the Bucharest-Belgrade-Bari transverse. This is also an extremely significant share on the macro plan, which will show and will certainly show economic viability. It is extremely important that, with the completion of this short section from Belgrade to Preljina, it will arrive in less than an hour, which is a very important and important thing. However, when the tape, or six strips, descend to Montenegro, is not yet known. About 107km in length for the Požega-Boljara section, a general project was completed for which the Republic Revision Commission concluded in 2008 and adopted a definitive route. It goes from Požega, passes through the area of the village of Prilepak through the valley of the Moravica, runs towards Aril and Ivanjica, bypassing the north-west route, and then goes further across the area of Kosavica, walking around Golia, descending to Kovilj, next to Biočana, to Duga Poljana, via Pestar and north-east-South West to Bolar where the border point with Montenegro is. Once again, this is the shortest share. The profession has made it clear that this share is 42 kilometers shorter than any other proposed and has reached an almost definitive conclusion. I'm sorry the minister isn't here, but I have to appeal to her claims. Several times already, especially in 2015 in Novi Pazar, when it's very clear, it's concise that what the profession said, is that it's the most rewarding thing, the easiest thing to do, because it's the easiest way to cross the cave high, that's the direction that will be cheapest and the easiest to implement. The minister reiterated this several times and stressed that there is no room for major changes and excursions in the main project. The most important thing is that it was then that there was a conclusion that the lateral arms were also developed. The most important sideline is the one that will go towards Zlatibor, which will go towards the direction of Sarajevo and connect with Corridor 10 and direction 5C of the arms. I will remind you that this connects Preljina with the Pojats and is practically crossing the Republic of Serbia horizontally and most easily importing these extremely important shares towards the highway itself to Sarajevo, which is an additional quality, which will also give the Goldibor region a very full, and this direction may have a greater value than this highway. I don't know if he'll have a bigger one, but he'll have at least the same value. That way all residents of these parts of the Republic of Serbia will not be left behind either. This corridor is indeed the only development of the chances of the southern, southwest part of Serbia, the part of Serbia from which I come, the northern Sandzak, and it is for us a practical matter of life and death. I don't know what could happen if this share, which is what the profession, the reason and everything that's on the cost-effectiveness side, were not respected, showed that it's much better. In the end, it connects Ariel, Ivanica and the cave high. These are our zones that can and are envisaged and that have such potential for agricultural development, for growing healthy food, for organic food, which is something that I think, what this government is really insisting on, and that's the only brand that we can safely sell. It's a mining wealth, it's a tourist potential, which they really need to discover, not just the citizens of this country, but all the citizens, or all the tourists who really show a desire to come to our country and come to our country more and more. You know that the Montenegrin side has taken this job very seriously, that they have, at the cost of jeopardising their GDP, insisted that they start a project to build the Adriatic highway to Bolar and this indicates enough the importance and quality that will give this highway and implus a link between all parts of the Balkans to us probably two very important states, the Republic of Montenegro and the Republic of Serbia. We have an extremely interesting north of Montenegro, where a truly large number of Bosniaks live, and we were very sad when the separation happened between the two countries, because our national being was torn apart in two parts. You know, as a party, we were against such a decision and voted mainly against Montenegro's independence. For the residents of these parts of our country, I said once again, it's a vital question. We expect this ministry to be very agile, as has been so far, as the government itself has joined the construction of roads, rebuilding roads, restoring complete infrastructure, because we know that this is the only chance and the only quality way to turn the momentum of development, primarily those parts of Serbia that are not Belgrade. Once again, I call on this Ministry, as well as all the ministries and the very government of the Republic of Serbia, to give additional strength and additional attention and additional implications to the development of this project, because it seems to me that every day of the delay these parts remain releases, migrations have done their part and that practically this area remains a desert field, and a beautiful zone and an untapped area of our Republic. Once again, I call upon the Ministry and we stand at the service, as a party and as citizens, to give every help to make this project happen as soon as possible. Of course, the credit is good, I understand why we're extending the time of this loan and we're going to vote for this decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3308	Thank you. George Kosanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3309	Thank you. Dear Ministers, with associates, respected representatives of the Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have before us a bill to confirm the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on the financing of the shares of the Ljig highway – Preljina na Corridor 11. I will say immediately, the JS parliamentary group in the voting day will support the bill's proposal, on the one hand, because the adoption of such a law allows for the creation of modern infrastructure in Serbia, and I must say that it allows one such important infrastructure project to be done, we will all agree, large, requested, and we will end it in one quality way. At the very beginning, Mr. Minister, I must say that there was no credit arrangement with Arzebejan there would be no Corridor 11. That's what we have to say openly. Why am I telling you this now? Well, first, neither the European Investment Bank nor the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and on the other hand, the World Bank, finance only projects, you know that, only projects, which they say are of particular importance. We have as such a project recognized Corridor 10, so there was no way that this important, very important route would get us a credit arrangement, but we found a partner in Azerbaijan. I think we'll be working with them on other infrastructure projects in the future. Speaking of the infrastructure project itself for this section of Ljig – Preljina I must say that it is 40.3 km long. We've got 29 meters of follow-through. The main contractor is Azerbaijani firm Assurt, and the value of the project itself is 308m euros. Three hundred million is credit and arrangement with Azerbaijan, and the rest is given by the Republic of Serbia. We must openly say that 98% of the work has been completed right now. I'm not going to tell Mr. Mrkonjic 100%, but 98% is done and what Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic would say – when everything is considered we did a big and good job. Why do I say we did a good job, a demanding and large infrastructure project? If I say we have four tunnels of two and a half kilometers long, 66 bridge structures of a total length of five kilometers, the "Dovebac" section, and then on the highway there are walls for protection from being at a total length of seven and a half kilometers, water streams of 18 kilometers long are regulated, and then overpasses are a total area of 600 thousand square meters. The land was expropriated at more than four million square meters. These two loops will be completed, and if we take one more important thing that we have had a lot of unforeseen things, first of all, if we say that in 2014, we have even had 130 rainy days, which has made the whole situation very difficult, and in the following year, the Ambassador of Azerbaijan himself said at one point also the representatives of the company Assert, which performs the works, that it is a very difficult field, that they have encountered many unforeseen things. First two payments, six slides, but they say we did a good job. The same important thing for us from the JS, and I think for all of us here, is that the government hires such companies and our producers. On the other hand, we hire our firms and hire our people. Why do I say all this? The Azbrit firm is currently using all the retail materials from Serbia. On the other hand, more than 100 of our companies have been hired, and if I tell you that out of the total number of workers, 98% works from Serbia. I think it's a good example of how we're going to work in the future. I have to say, in Azerbaijan, we have friends, a country that hasn't admitted so-called. It's an artificial piece of hair. It's a very important thing. On the other hand, we have more exports than imports as far as Azerbaijan is concerned. I think and I'm really sure that this is just the beginning of co-operation with them and on other even bigger infrastructure projects, and therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the JS parliamentary group in the voting day will support the bill's proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3310	Gorica Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3311	Thank you, Madam President. Dear and esteemed Mr. Ministers and Associates, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, how urgent this item of the agenda has been, and in the walk, changed the agenda of this second session of our session. First we received a call that there would be only one item on the agenda, and then it was added to a few more points, and among other things is this item of the agenda, which is the draft law confirming the agreement on the amendment between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on the loan for the financing of shares in Corridor 11, and the relationship of Ljig – Boykovci – Takovo – Preljina. The agreement on the loan, he said, was signed in February 2012. In April of the month, which entered into force on 4 or 3 May 2012, an agreement, i.e. a contract on the implementation of works between investors Corridor of Serbia and Azerbaijani firm Azbrit, was signed on 7 April 2012. With this money, 40km is financed on Corridor 11 and the total value of the works is the project 308 million dinars, and the amount of the loans is 300 million dinars. Forty-seven months was the deadline for using, or availability for withdrawing these funds, and expired in May this year. We see that the request to the Republic of Azerbaijan for an extension of the period of availability, hence the use of these funds, was made only in April and May of this year. The government and the resolute minister for which I declare regret that she is not here, because mostly all these criticisms and objections would go to the expense of the ministry and on behalf of her as ministers in the ministry. Why was it late, we have to underline it, why was it too late to apply for an extension of this term of use? Why hasn't it been done already in February or March of the month and did all of this be delayed by the extraordinary parliamentary elections and, of course, by waiting and forming a new government? Whose fault is that? Is it the failure of the minister, the resolution ministry or the entire government, and why only some mistakes that may arise only to subcontractors who are mostly domestic firms? And then these days and weeks this topic around the Ljig-Preljina section is moving to the front page of the newspaper, and we are mostly talking to critics, or by the minister in particular, that it is for late work and for breaking the deadline that domestic subcontractors are mainly guilty, such as the "Planum" company which, I think, is one of the larger subcontractors and at this Azerbaijani firm. Of course, there was a reaction from Mr. Prime Minister and still Madam Minister that the papers must be completed by the end of October when the tape will be cut on this section. Mr. Vujovicu, since Ms. Zorana is not here, how do you think construction deadlines can be respected and should be respected without respecting the deadlines for paying the works carried out. As my colleague said, almost 98% of the work was done, I hope that these 2% will be completed by the end of October. The contractor, the Azerbaijani firm and our subcontractors, have not received a single cent since February of this year according to the temporary situations they delivered. If we know that our domestic companies were building bridges, and tunnels, and parts of earth's work, and total electricity on these shares, how did you think those works would finance it? We have a situation that the Azerbaijani firm, too, had drawn credit lines with its commercial banks of over 20 million dinars, that our subcontractors too had to borrow more than 5 million dinars in order to respect the dynamics of the performance of the works and to respect above all contractual obligations. You're here to explain, and you've now told the ministers that almost 80% of the loan has been withdrawn, so that's about 240 million, why these money hasn't been paid to contractors and subcontractors. If we start from the fact that after the opening of the works it'll be another year for this share to be technically received, and the end situation can only be done once the shares are technically received, then we can all calculate how many months I don't say and years will pass when the contractor and subcontractor will take their money for a particular job. Dear gentlemen of the ministry, are you aware as we are aware that our construction firms, which have been the backbone of Serbia's economic development for decades back, have been respected and sought on the foreign construction market, for years back, five, six, eight years, marginalized, eliminated, removed, have simply not been given the opportunity to participate equally and to take a job in tenders, because tender conditions have eliminated them. They were mainly so composed that only international firms could get jobs, and our domestic companies if they met the conditions, so they were forced to form consortiums to satisfy the tender conditions with their references, they would again be eliminated, eliminated, and again be second and third in these tenders. Foreign companies get jobs with their dumping prices up to 20, 30%, most often the only condition is the value of derived works, i.e. the value of the offered labour prices and dumping prices they get a job. This has forced many of our construction firms to also go with the downgrading of prices below real, really valid prices, and thus trying to get as much equal participation as they do with foreign contractors and get a job, already eat their substance, already eat their salaries for their employees, already eat their profits, but the market has to survive. The value of works only in the toll industry or toll operation at the annual level is about a billion euros. It's probably a significant number that needs to be kept under control, where the money flows have to be controlled, and you know who's supposed to get those jobs. Here's an example, just two examples, where foreign companies were in front of domestic companies even though ours were more competitive. On the bridge at Beška for 33.5m euros, our domestic company Mostogradnja was cheaper for fivem euros, so to speak than Austria's Alpina. We all know the job got the Alpine. The Alpine has extended or breached for two years, as the construction jargon says, the construction deadline and then asked for so-called. additional or unexpected works, whatever they call them or you call them in construction, another 100m euros in money for damage claims. What happened then? Most of the experts from Mostogradnja, meaning the construction engineers for whom this challenge is to work on such a bridge, left Mostogradnja in the Alps. Of course, we all know what happened to Alpina later. Another example on Corridor 10, on Nis-Bulgaria, Nis-Macedonia, then our domestic companies formed a consortium, as far as I was informed there was the "Planum" with its references raised and fulfilled, raised the criteria and met the conditions for competition in the tender and, of course, was not the first and yet not the main performer. Desiring this treatment of domestic construction firms, and I'm not telling you that because I think so, it's the opinion of absolutely all construction firms that remain on our domestic market as, if I can, simply on the fingers of one hand to name "Energoproject", "Planum", "Ratko Mitrović" and it's only low-building, high-building almost and no. When we talk about all these problems, we should look at the state of the passenger companies today and the state of the passenger industry or the passenger economy at all today. By privatising travel companies, then state-owned travel companies that territorially held Serbia from Kragujevac, Vranja, Nis, Kruševac, Užice, etc., with their privatisation we had at one point that only "Nibens Group" and Vasa Micic from Užica held, or controlled 80% of the road market. Of course, then, by privatising all these state-owned passenger companies, the new private companies were automatically acquired, be careful, there was never a tender for the maintenance of regional and state-owned roads and they were automatically privatised by these companies and the territories that had previously held state-owned companies to maintain roads. It would thus ensure a safe flow of money to maintain roads from Serbia and, of course, could be as competitive as possible, later in road construction competition. I said earlier that the value, market value or money that is spinning in the toll industry is a year-on-year billion euros. Today, we have the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia" which until the establishment of the company "Corridori Serbia" were the only investor to build all categories of roads, from highways to regional and state roads. Later, whether it was 2009, 2010 you will correct me, the company "Corridori of Serbia" is established simply without some traveller's, economic logic, more like a political act that this billion euros is much better controlled between the coalition government or parties that were then governmental, so it is a lot to keep so much market under control. Dear Mr. Minister, you know that while domestic banks existed, today they are no longer unfortunately, they were the financial backs of our economy, and of course our travel industry. You know that today all of our construction firms who are struggling to survive on the market have no one to guarantee. Foreign banks give a guarantee or have given it for a while, probably after the Nibens Group and everything that's happened to some of our travel companies, the criteria have raised, you know what conditions our company needs to meet and we no longer have a banking sector, a domestic sector that will monitor our domestic industry. And to conclude, perhaps in the end, our construction firms have no one to talk to about their problems. Ms. Minister of Construction and Infrastructure, as it is called, and energy, but we are no longer in this focus, and it is not just my opinion again, it is the opinion of the profession, there is no more expert engineering staff to talk to the builders, that he understands their problems, that he knows the terminology of which they rule, that the minister should not go to the construction site and that the number of machines and workers who came to work on that day, that the minister and the ministry only has administrative control over these jobs, that everything should be taken care of by the investor, that is here "Serb Corridors", of course the designer is responsible for the projected stock, that for the performance and quality of works and deadlines in which works are carried out, the contractors, and then also the subcontractors of the works. But speaking of contractors, and I must point out, my information is that the Azerbaijani contractor is a very serious and responsible contractor, even more correct as he is as a contractor to our companies, subcontractors than our respective ministry. The Resort Ministry, again, must underline, ignore our domestic performers by simply having foreign lenders, foreign lenders have a mostly condition for them to choose the contractors, and then select, the contractor chooses the bank that tracks it, our contractors are already in another plan. For subcontractors, and it's not just my opinion, foreign contractors when they already have something called a condition, they offer companies, domestic firms, established overnight, no reference lists, no mechanics, no professional staff, and then we have a problem. And we find out for a corresponding, specifically minister, that he accuses a renowned company that's been operating and surviving on the market for 68 years, that he built a tunnel that's so much and so many inches down and that they can't get past the trucks with high trailers, which is absolutely not true. And that's what the media is about, that's who's wrong, not our performer, that's who we need to move, so let's do the domestic performers and then probably deliberately accuse the domestic firms of not being serious candidates and serious contractors on these big projects. Dear Minister, we have continued this relationship with the domestic construction industry, we will wake up in Serbia where there will be other people's money, other people's contractors, foreign banks, other people's technologies, and what will be ours I don't know, probably just our rental workforce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3312	The word is Natas Micic. I'm sorry, Natasha. He wants the minister to respond briefly.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3313	Thank you very much. Let me just mention some facts here to make it clear. Thank you for a lot of extensive exposure and very much of the topics you've started. I just want to be brief for the information, and therefore also because of the discussion frame, I mention some things. The Serbian Corridors filed a request sometime in early March. That the procedure for extending the contract was according to our laws, i.e. If it hadn't been for ratification, it would have been in time, because in early April, the government adopted the request and forwarded it to Azerbaijan by May 4 when it expired, it could technically have extended. However, Azerbaijan said their procedure requires the adoption of an amended international agreement on the agenda today, requiring a different legal procedure and a different ratification. What is more important, it required a procedure that we were not capable of until August 12th until the new government and parliament were voted in office. Therefore, it inserted the element of lateness. So I put everything else aside, your conversations about what was going on on the performer's side, the subcontractor, that's a special topic. So, the very procedure of what was a moment we didn't know was that Azerbaijan would demand full ratification and then the whole thing delayed until August 12th. Since then, we have already prepared an agreement in July, sent it to them, they returned it to us on September 22nd. The government adopted him in the last days of September and sent him immediately to the Assembly and we are now in that phase. So we didn't waste any time after that, but this delay was due to objective reasons, since the technical government couldn't propose it and parliament wasn't in office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3314	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Natasha Micic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3315	Madam President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would say first that the Government on the inside actually has two of the most important tasks. One concerns institution building because it is the only guarantee of security and freedom in this country, and the other is infrastructure, building infrastructure as one of Serbia's neural points. We know, we are all aware of the fact that our road infrastructure is in very poor shape and that we are seen and assessed by those who are invited to give their opinion on it, so the World Economic Forum has misjudged Serbia by the quality and availability of transport infrastructure and we are taking 118th place under all countries in Europe and even the former countries of the Soviet Union. Secondly, let's say that the density of roads today is 6.2 kilometers per 1,000 inhabitants is twice the European average. Be careful, twice the European average since the average in Europe is 12.1 km. I mention it all in order to give meaning, to point out how important it is, it is important to extend the fact of this contract. And what's not good and we're going to do it as an LDP, as a responsible party, we're going to support this extension of the contract, but we have serious concerns, the government is being very irresponsible and very irresponsible about this issue. First, it's a good thing Western Serbia finally came to order, because if we take into account and for the safety of over 600 people die annually on our roads, and the largest number is right on the Ibari Master's Office, we could also take into account the importance of this infrastructure in western Serbia and that's from your minister's portfolio on economic development. It is absurd for Western Serbia to participate in exports a third, in 2014 33% we participate in exports, and in fact so slowly and so irresponsiblely approach some basic issues, such as building infrastructure. When I say "unserious," the government acted, first of all, and in realising the agreement itself. No one here has explained to us why they're late for realization. Only September 22nd is the conclusion of the agreement and there is no excuse. We could've done it in August when the government was elected to confirm this agreement. So again another delay that is actually still prolonging the whole situation. Then, respect for the deadlines, not to say that the prime minister's election promises in 2014 were that by the end of 2016 we would have the Belgrade-Goldibor road, until, say, a few months ago, he said that he would be able to reach Belgrade-Goldibor in hours and a half. It is a very, very serious and dangerous statement, because absolutely, with respect to traffic regulations, it is impossible to do so. Furthermore, considering that this share of Ljig - Preljina is 40.3 kilometers, that it has been four and a half years, that those deadlines have been broken that these works were to be completed on August 25th, it is now promised to be October 31st, and if we apply that figure 40km in four and a half years to the promised share of Belgrade – Požega, which is 160km, at that rate, at this rate, if we continue, that share to Požega will only be completed in 16, 17 years. I'm afraid somewhere that even, for example, the realization of Beograd on water, which was planned in 30 years, might be over rather than this Adriatic road, as colleagues call it. Furthermore, there is a real question of the responsibility of Minister Zorana Mihajlovic, and it is a pity that she is not here today, because she said, let's say, unfortunately, I have to say, it was completely unsurpassed, that by February, there was no expert oversight of this section of Corridor 11 from Ljigo to Preljina. You know what, it's a very inconclusive statement, considering that Article 153. The law on planning and construction says professional supervision is provided by an investor, none other than an investor, which is the government of the Republic of Serbia, or the Corridori of Serbia. So it's just amazing. Secondly, the same law stipulates that a Republic building inspector is required to suspend the procedure unless expert supervision is provided. After that, there are still questions about tunnel heights, I don't know, asphalt thickness, quality of work. It's just impossible it wasn't surveillance. I really don't understand why the minister so irresponsiblely stated it, because no situation could be confirmed without expert supervision. That's just plain clear. Furthermore, the question arises why the minister did not call the lead performer, because it is a normal path, not to be called subcontractors. Then, I say, that old machine, the new machine, it's all so unserious and so much to the surface has come up with a total insecureness of the government that it's just amazing. I repeat, however, taking into account that this is an important issue, that this agreement, which was concluded in 2012, for a period of four years and today we extend it to two years, we really need Serbia, we need a better infrastructure, but I would like the future government to really make sure that it does not exaggerate with these glamorous, pompous promises, and that we are then brought into a situation to be late for the realisation of the agreement, that now the government cannot withdraw 26 million remaining funds, the euros available to it and that we also act on the government of Azerbaijan unseriously, and otherwise as a country we get one big minus for some future work and for the conclusion of some future contracts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3316	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3317	The esteemed chairman, Mr. Minister, with all of your associates, dear and respected fellow MPs, on this agenda point, when it comes to the topic of the highway from Belgrade at all, so let's say in the middle of Serbia, through western Serbia to Montenegro, there is only one indisputable thing, and that is that we need this highway over. Everything else is controversial and I'll talk about it. For all citizens of Serbia who live especially in western Serbia, this highway is a life issue. When I say the question of life, it is often in the literal sense of this word, therefore, the question of life and death, that is, the question of surviving all those who travel the Ibar highway, which carries so many lives on an annual basis. What a relationship almost all authorities have to Western Serbia in the last half century is really worth reminding ourselves of. Ever since communist times, Western Serbia, as a bastion of anti-Communism, has been in prison and has been treated in every way as some forgotten part of Serbia. It is enough to mention perhaps the composition of the current government of the Republic of Serbia in which all ministers are above Sava and Danube and there are no ministers under Sava and Danube, let alone from Western Serbia. That was the attitude towards this highway, years and decades ago. So, Western Serbia, in particular, I would say, the Raska area, is simply forgotten by the Serbian state. It's not just the relationship of this government. It's practically all the authorities' relationship in the past many, many decades. There are no investments, there are no new employment, there are no travel infrastructure resolutions, there are no ministers or, I say, important state officials in Belgrade. Simply, Western Serbia, in particular, I repeat again, the Raška area, especially the status of the Serb people, the interest of the Serbian state in the Raška area has always been questioned. In particular, it is well said here by a fellow MP that the EU, that the World Bank, that none of these famous Western partners had any interest in this section of the highway, very interesting. Of course they have no interest in those shares of highways that are of the interest of the Serbian people and the state. So, this highway is the breadth of Serbian integration, connecting between Serbia, Republika Srpska and Montenegro. The Raška area is currently a three-way, key traffic hub between Serbia, Republika Srpska and Montenegro. Well, why would the World Bank and the EU have an interest in connecting the Serbian people in the Balkans? It's our state interest, which as you can see, is decades and decades late. And finally, when there was even a problem of this highway, then a single loan was made between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government of the Republic of Azerbaijan, which in the opinion of the Serbian Dvora movement is problematic on many grounds. What's not the issue here? There is no disputed interest of the Republic of Azerbaijan as a lender. It's an honor to them. These people have made such an agreement that they can be proud of. They, above all, give us a 300m-euro loan for 15 years with a 4% interest. So that's the first basis they make a good living by. Well done. It's not the only basis they make money on, because it would be normal for somewhere, if we don't have our own resources, to be in charge so we can even build the highway we need. The problem is that 51% do the work they actually adopt for themselves, i.e. Azerbaijani company Azvirt is actually doing works on this highway, and how much is 51% of the work done, is that half of this credit we get? They actually return to themselves, pump people into their own resources, into their own profits, making a lot more than 4% of the interest. So anyone who claims to be a small interest or a favourable loan is actually forging the truth. That's not true. It's much higher interest to consider how much this Azerbaijani company earns and how much they actually lend themselves. It's a smart country. It simply credits its domestic economy, its exports and earns on us, which is of course their interest. The question is, of course, what is our interest here? We have a situation that under this contract, or the Agreement, the Republic of Azerbaijan can suspend payment whenever it is not satisfied with the way in which it works, the financial documents that regulate these payments and everything else. Also, this Azerbaijani company can offer us any price of the works it performs. So he can blackmail us at the height of these works, with the price and everything else that is their interest, so that they can go financially again as well as possible in this agreement. Again, I say, to them, it's a question of our negotiating side of whether our domestic economic interest here is being defended in the right way. Our subcontractors are given more risky, more difficult, cheaper jobs, and they are given easier and more expensive jobs. That's where they found their interest. Of course, they're taking extra profits in this whole realization. Customs duties on imports of goods from Azerbaijan have been lifted. They charge, as is the case with a stone aggregate that charges 35 euros per cubic meter, although it costs about 21 euros. They don't pay VAT, no other taxes or any transactions related to this activity. When you add all of that up, it's not 4% interest, but it's a much, much larger extra profit that Azerbaijan has drawn from this agreement, which is, of course, their logical economic interest. They have there and some political conditions in this agreement, the type that we must be in the membership of the World Bank or, I don't know, the IMF and I don't know which international monetary institutions, and if we haven't, again, as in some other cases, when they are not satisfied, this agreement will be abolished, or we will have to approach immediately to pay for all remaining wars and interest. Of course, they condition us that we cannot take goods and cooperate with any countries with which Azerbaijan is not in good diplomatic relations or not at all. What's he saying? That people know how to make an international agreement that's absolutely in their best interests, that protects all their interests perfectly. They really have to be given an absolute confession that people know they're doing their job. This is where the question arises – is our country... Of course, this is about the former regime of Boris Tadic, but we can see that this regime is also going through the paved paths of DS authorities, especially in no key strategic issue is different from DS policy, and by confirming such agreements, we see that in the economic sense absolutely relying on the direction when DS led this country. Is our economic interest protected here? That's where I want to point in my next thought. Of course, we need to find a source of funding for financing such large infrastructure works, such as building highways. Yeah, we all agree, we need that highway. True, the state has put it back on track for decades, because the western Serbia and the Raška area had to be forgotten, but we figured it might make sense and that Western Serbia had a normal highway. We realized that it might make sense to connect more infrastructureally with Montenegro and Republika Srpska, but then the question arises – where do we get the money, where do we get the funding for these works? It is logical that the first source of finance, which will come to mind, will be international loan, international lending, etc. Here, and I'm asking the current finance minister this question -- was this the only possible way to finance the construction of this highway, was this the only address we could contact for this loan, could the loan be taken on other sides of the world, if there were any other lenders, would they be more favourable, would they be making less extra profit than Azerbaijan has gotten out of all of this? The second question, Mr. Minister, which is crucial, could we have financed this from our own incomes? This is where we come to the biggest taboo of all ruling regimes in the last 15, 16 years, or after 5 October, which is the taboo of primary emissions, i.e. the strictly controlled printing of state money, which is never given into any closure of budget holes, in any consumption or anything else that causes inflation, but exclusively in domestic production, in large infrastructure works, in domestic banks and in everything that needs to be driven by production, employment and filling our budget. Could we, Mr. Minister, have been able to print our money, or state bonds purchased by the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia, which would then be paid out of the budget, as you return this loan, Mr. Minister, and which would thus trigger this financial blood flow within our system? Why couldn't we possibly do that? Because we had from 2012 and later conditioned by the IMF to ban the NBS from buying out government bonds. I repeat, this is not about financing a budget deficit or spending, which would lead to inflation, but to investment in infrastructure building and economic development, which would directly lead to an increase in GDP, a charge of budgets through workers' salary taxes, VAT and other revenues from which, in time, the funds provided by the NBS from the primary emissions. There would be no extra profit for any stranger. There would be all the extra profits, or one chain of financial functioning left in this country. We print money, we pay our construction firms, and construction firms pay our workers, for the work of these workers are paid taxes and contributions, these taxes and contributions enter the budget, and companies enter this budget through their tax segregation and ultimately, the entire financial functioning chain, which is the economic interest of this state, is being filled and turned. In this agreement, I see only the economic interest of the Republic of Azerbaijan. I do not see the economic interest of the Republic of Serbia, and this is the problem that the Serbian Dveri Movement has with all the post-five-octobaric regimes, which have always put the interests of foreigners, the World Bank, the IMF, various international monetary funds or foreign multinational corporations in the first place. I think the time has come, Mr. Minister, to seriously consider an alternative economic model. The neoliberalism has been defeated at the level of the whole world. All countries of the world return to their own economies, their own currencies, the abolition of currency clauses, domestic banking, the investment from domestic savings and everything that is a classical economy, I would say, to which all the countries of the world that have ever developed in history have developed. Forget it, Mr. Vujovicu, foreign investment, forget these agreements that are in the interests of foreigners. Let's take a look at our domestic economic interest. We still have a lot of work to do. We still have a lot to finish on this road of traffic Serbian integration, on this road to creating a significant traffic hub in the Raška region between Serbia, Republika Srpska and Montenegro. Also, if I were to refer to a colleague who mentioned this very important dilemma whether the continuation of this arm highway towards Montenegro should go over the cave highlands, which may be shorter, but certainly not smarter or through Zlatibor and Zlatar why there is a huge interest, how the development of domestic tourism of Zlatibor, Tara and Zlatar, so the number of vehicles that are much higher, which will traffic this way, the ten municipalities of the Zlatibor County, which will be connected, the “Poniks” Airport that will be included in the civilian traffic on that highway route, the cheaper costs of maintenance of the road infrastructure in the winter period than certainly in the cave highland, large snow applications that are characteristic of the cavedic visor, which can be a problem of functioning on the highway, while the caverska visor needs to be respected in a different way of domestic agriculture, which would be made by means of local agriculture. So, there are a lot of serious issues left in relation to this agenda point, and I don't think absolutely our parliamentary group can support this confirmation of the Agreement on Amendments and Supplements to the Loan Agreement with the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan, because we don't see our domestic economic interest in all of this. When Mr. Ministers ensure that extra profits remain in this country, when you hire a domestic construction operation, when you put into office a domestic bank, when you put into office the National Bank of Serbia, which will no longer serve the interests of the IMF and the World Bank, but will serve our domestic economic interest, then you will receive the support of the Dvora for some similar initiatives. We need highways, but highways should be built in our domestic economic interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3318	Thank you. The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3319	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the basic problem we face in the field of traffic and construction investment works of spatial planning, is Minister of the ministry Zorana Mihajlovic. Zorana Mihajlovic is constantly holding back all possible deals with Russians, Chinese, Azerbaijani and other non-American or European firms. The problem with building Corridor 11 is made up. It's completely made up to simply throw Azerbaijani firms off the Serbian market. What is the contract that Minister Mrkonjic made here in 2012? What kind of agreement has been reached? Yes, 49% of our company's obligations, as subcontractors, and what happens in practice? Sixty percent, I even hear this morning's information up to 80% that domestic companies are engaged. We can't do that with Western banks. The World Bank and these two European banks, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the European Investment Bank, take 2% of the interest, but they absolutely decide who will be contractors and then we happen to get jobs fast-tracked companies, people who have a certain impact in these banks, to make huge profits, and we see that these companies, such as the "Alpine" happen and fail in our country and leave us in extra debt. This makes it much more dangerous to take loans from the World Bank and these two European banks. The contract signed with Azerbaijan is much like a contract made in time with the Chinese on the Michael Pupin Bridge, as the people popularly call it the Chinese Bridge. We have seen what experience we have with General Draža Mihajlovic's bridge, and it cannot be called his name even though the people have declared themselves to the vast majority that they want that name. What amount did the cost of building that bridge come to? Are Western companies engaged? Is it Western bank loans? With the Chinese, there were no problems. Although the Chinese wanted a lot of their workers to hire and a lot of their equipment to install, etc. We have a case here with an Azerbaijani firm that almost all construction materials are being used from Serbia. It is a huge benefit, but Zorana Mihajlovic is a woman with a task. She has a mission, the worse Serbia, the better her bosses. That's why they're pushing her for a minister in all advanced governments so far and planning for the president of the Republic. Okay, that's not the problem. It's either Maya or me, we're gonna get rid of her in the first round.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3320	Ambassador, this is funny, but please, let's get back to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3321	This isn't funny at all. This is the problem we're facing. She recently invented that the August level in the tunnels that were recently completed is 30 centimeters higher than allowed and that's why the big trucks, the helmets can't get through. Why is that made up? It's been invented to defamation an Azerbaijani firm as incapable of handling these works. Especially because of the destruction of the home company "Planum", one of the few remaining domestic construction firms that the Dosmanians did not arrive to destroy. This company is dragging a huge machine from a Russian construction site to scrape the road or scrap the ceiling of a tunnel, as it's called, professionally, I don't know, without any need. What are the costs of transporting that machine and how much their construction sites in Russia now suffer. Our companies that are happy to be seen, for example. In the Russian market and constantly there, hired and previously worked in Africa, in Arab countries, have now failed. Many have failed, and others are barely able to put an end to the end, because it has begun to force wild companies from the west. Who started it? Zoran Djindjic, with his mob buddy... (Radomir Milojic, from the post: Please, President, what does this look like? This looks like a political speech.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3322	You did not protest when Minister Zorana Mihajlovic called. Don't, see I didn't react to a minister who's a member of my party. Please don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3323	Zoran Djindjic, with Cumet, registered a company at a train station in Vienna, for the company to get a job for the whole of Serbia to asphalt. It's not a ton, it's a hectolitre of your Ken beer, it's not a beer. It is an asphalt that has all of Serbia paved. That's why there was a conflict between the Surcin and the Zemun clan. That used to be one clan. About the split money from the asphalt. That's why Djindjic paid with his head, and you've been covering up the investigation for 12 years. (Bosko Obradovic: Who is now asphalting? Now they're paved, but I wonder who today... .
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3324	Do not throw away an MP when it stands up.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3325	You're not saying "Planum" Vukichev, are you?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3326	Anyone who wants can get a replica. Ambassador, give your speech, let the MPs get it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3327	I've got to take them for a while. I can't spend every day with promotional men, even though I prefer promotional ones. They're still on horseback, and these are long gone. I didn't say - under the horse. It's the one that allowed Tommy Nikolic to graduate. He says. So this is a 30-centimeter hoax that makes Zorana Mihajlovic have to go to jail, not just to be replaced. That's how much damage that's done us. Minister Vujovic knows it's a difficult prank. And it was found to be a hoax, and I personally became convinced. Look, she's running the Ministry now, and she's driven all the experts out of. There's not a single expert. There are no engineers in the Ministry, just clerks, obedients, who are absolutely incompetent to work. She's put all the inspections together into one that's not able to handle different jobs. It's a real mess. On purpose. Why? Because the potential American performers put it that way. The same problem faces Milo Djukanovic. And he was wrong, so he made a deal with companies that weren't American and Western European, so now he's changing it, so he's adapting, so he's panicking, etc. I am not sorry that Djukanovic is being humiliated by his American protectors in all of this. What is the state's duty here when this situation has already taken place? First he gives a warrant to the lead performer to get everything that's ruined back in the past, and there's a lot of it. Then we have the Investment Construction Act, which provides for all these situations and strictly regulates them. Why doesn't it apply? Second, what else is the Ministry doing to us? You ruined our farm this year. The newspapers write – reduced exports of fruit to Russia. Do you know why? Some speculate, they say – Russia will no longer import. Others say, now the Russians have made plantations, so they don't need them. The third says, imports from another country. No, it's the minister who's been holding the licenses for our car carriers. Ask some of your local car carriers how difficult it is to get a license now. Getting permits for international transport of goods is much harder today than it was under the regimes, thanks to Zorana Mihajlovic. And Todorovic has a problem with licenses. He was given thanks to you, first of all, to Minister Mrkonjic, who was the most objective there, but of course, he was in the structure of your government. But you created Zorana, and you handed her over to the advances. She's from G17 plus, the regions of Serbia, as it's called. You're all mixed up as a whole. Let me use this time of my own. What else has been happening to us around this corridor? It's amazing stuff. We've been distracted by various artificial scandals here. He's cutting the oak - how long was the scandal? Could the oak have been bypassed? Yes, with a little intervention in the project. Why not? Look, maybe it all went wrong because the oak was knocked down. I'm not kidding. It's not our people crazy, it's got a huge experience, centuries old, thousands of years built. The covenant oak shouldn't have been shot down. Someone deliberately knocked him down. Who? I don't see anyone but Zorana Mihajlovic. So it happened to us that the floods damaged the bridges in the construction and so on. Who was the crisis for that? Or Zorana Mihalovic or Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3328	Ambassador, please, let's just get back to the deal. This is very important.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3329	Here we go back to the deal right now. This agreement was concluded on 2 February 2012, with the possibility of amending and supplementing it, and this is also foreseen by our Law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts. But the law also predicted that the RS government would inform the National Assembly of the execution of international contracts. As far as I know, no report of that kind has been submitted, which relates to an agreement with the government of Azerbaijan. Is that true? Unfortunately, Serbian radicals in the previous term were not in the National Assembly. Here's who you were, remember? It never was. Serbia is in charge, and the loan funds have been transferred to an Azerbaijani firm. So, Azerbaijani bank, funds at the Azerbaijani firm, 4% interest per year. That's not a small amount of interest, but it's not too big, if you consider the other benefits of that loan. What's best for us? It's best for us that our government gives concessions to the works of this kind. But those concessions were avoided by the Socialists and the Dosmanians and the Progressives. I have to deal with this question in depth, especially now, why he's running away from concessions, even though they're the most suitable. In the case of concessions, the most difficult is abuse. You've given someone a concession, you have obligations to them, and he's doing his best. But there's no one on the side that's coming in, who's looking for a percentage, who's looking for a privilege in the supply of material, who's looking for this or who's looking for that. The loan was made available until 4 May 2016. The deadline's up. Here we are told that 80% of the loans were used. And that information is suspicious. They say this ratification is needed to withdraw those 20% and pay off the subcontractors. You'll also put in a story about temporary and final accounting situations, as if complete business had been completed. And that's not true, and it has no effect on this agreement, because this is a financial agreement, not a construction contract. Under the financial agreement, the Republic of Serbia has obligations to the Azerbaijani bank, and according to a contract to build a mutual obligation, the Republic of Serbia and the Azerbaijani firm with which the agreement was concluded. But you might be surprised, and we know this. On 31 October 2015, according to official data, over 300m euros were used 202.244,417. So, in five months of 2016, there's about 98 million left. The first payment of this loan began on 23 November 2015. The last war of this loan must be paid on 23 November 2017. By 23 November 2016, Serbia must pay 16.179,553 euros on the basis of the principal payment of the loan. You wrote all this in the 2016 budget, and that's where I found it, and now you've forgotten what's in your budget. These are public debt data, after all. The loop at the League isn't finished, and these days you're getting ready to officially open the stock from Dichi to Preljina. The village of Dici is halfway from the League to the mine. So how can you do it here is not clear. Finish the loop at Leigh's. What's the point of opening this stock if that loop isn't done before? Is there any point? Or what Minister Zorana Mihajlovic said to some, that they were building a highway from field to field...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3330	Time, 20 minutes you've spent.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3331	... And this is what you're actually doing here. No highway has ever been built as much as memory serves me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3332	Thank you, MP. The next speaker is George Komlenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3333	Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, distinguished ministers with associates, the PS-NSS-USS parliamentary group will support the bill's proposal for clear and understandable reasons, recognising it as a responsible political group the importance of this law for further implementation of the highway completion project. I wouldn't go into the details that were mentioned earlier, but I just can't help but look back at some unprincipled comments, especially those that took part in the shut-down of domestic banks, which, even today, failed to even end up being shut down, so that we don't have a domestic banking system and that we have to rely on foreign banks and foreign investors. I can't understand the comment on the dumping prices given, and that under those prices our builders give even lower prices and appear as subcontractors at dumping prices. It is simply illogical for me and points to two things - or someone deliberately destroys the companies they run, or the prices our performers expect are unreally high, uncompetitive on the market, with all my desire to work in Serbia and of all the investments are exclusively incomed by domestic performers and workers who work in our companies. Maybe we'd have finished a lot of roads before if we hadn't discussed the routes. I don't have that conditional burden today, because the direction of Obrenovac is anyway on the corridor this time and I can only be impatient when the share from Belgrade to Obrenovac is going to go to work, but to express local chauvinism, I must call it that, has obviously disturbed a lot of things in the previous period. You know, I'm not sure if the route wasn't going any other way, that some parliamentary groups today wouldn't say they were voting differently than this text of the law. I think it is irresponsible and that we really as members of this parliament should rise above some local views and see Serbia as a whole. It is very important for Serbia to develop infrastructure, to develop roads, because, believe me, the investor "Meita" would not come to Obrenovac, it would not have created a good position to create new jobs if there was no great certainty that the infrastructure and highway, which must have passed through Obrenovac, had not been one of the likely decisive factors to come there. I agree that tourism is something that adorns some areas that are mentioned, but we must also take care of evenness. It is necessary to create conditions with infrastructure that tourism and agriculture develop in those areas that are currently not as accessible as those who have managed to develop tourism, because it is important that Belgrade no longer becomes the only place to work and live, but to create conditions for people where they are born, where they are used to, where they want to stay, to live decently, as if they are located in the very centre of Belgrade. I expect we'll get full information about it, but taking out completely objective elements, such as huge elemental disasters or higher power, as used on other occasions, which is the real reason why it was late with all these works. To take these objective factors into account in a rather realistic way, not to look and find the guilty person, but to see where the failures are, if any, and for some future stages of completion this time and future construction of infrastructure, warn possible delays and suffer consequences that may not be necessary. In any case, I welcome this way of funding, because I think it is multiplely useful for investments in Serbia. I am sure that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has taken every such opportunity and should take advantage of it, and of how correctly we follow these investments, as far as we are responsible for them, it is likely that this will return multiple times through the reduction of interest and through new investments precisely those who come because they have correct and decent intentions, to make decent profit in Serbia, and not to what I say is an extorted position that our interest is enormously high just because we were at one stage brought into a situation that we have to borrow at all costs. You know that better than I do, I am not an expert in this area and I would not want to enter that part, but in that part are the clear efforts of the Republic government, because it has succeeded after these elections to create another position for Serbia to confirm political stability, and I am sure that this will also reflect on the possibility of further credit reprogrammes that are waiting for us with lower interest, which will obviously give good effects in the recovery of what this government has welcomed when this serious and responsible business has taken place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3334	Thank you. The word is Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3335	Thank you, President of the Assembly. So the first thing about this loan, respected MPs and respected citizens, respected ministers, is the fact that they are late for work. Although we had a contract that was valid until May 2016, we are extending it to two years today, using 80 or 80% of the loan from the contract. So, out of 300m euros -- 240m euros, there are 60m euros left to be withdrawn by the government of the Republic of Serbia and to finish this job, of course, with a huge delay. Penalties that will represent Serbia, as always, are about 125m dinars, tighten interest that will pay, of course, Serbian citizens, as well as always paying for the irresponsibility of politicians and the government of the Republic of Serbia who do not have adequate solutions, knowledge and the ability to finish a job completed in 2012. You say the technical government is guilty, that's what you said in your presentation. I agree with you that the technical government is guilty. The technical government is guilty, for the simple reason that many things have been done past parliament and past the law and control, and I believe that this is something that Serbia is absolutely on the basis of your behaviour and should not be surprised. For several months you have worked outside any framework of control and the presence of the people's representatives, and in that sense I fully agree with you that the technical government is responsible for the delay that lies ahead. If we take into account everything that's been going on and happening, and it is the construction of Corridor 11, which is being shaken these days by a big tunnel-building affair, we read in the media that these tunnels are not in the best shape, that we've spent a huge amount of money to build these tunnels and that they will be hired, that the "Planum", which is a subcontractor, will be obliged to compensate for that damage, that they will correct everything that was wrong, but is not said whose responsibility it is. If I'm not mistaken, here's Milutin Mrkonjic, so maybe he can confirm these claims, it's the corridors that were controlling the cities, when it comes to the job of building a tunnel. Zorana Mihajlovic has brought amendments to the Law on Planning and Construction and under that law, Koridor was obliged to call a tender, unless I am mistaken, for supervision. It's not done. The affair arises for the simple reason that the law responsible for Zorana Mihajlovic was not respected. When the ministry finds that the law is not respected, Minister Vujovic, you would have to know perfectly, the ministry must stop all works. Why? Because there may be errors in performance, and the money we're withdrawing from the loan is just being used by the contractor, and the Ministry is paying for it. It is the money that Serbia is in debt, guaranteed by citizens of Serbia, of course, for every penny we borrowed, and that is one irresponsible way to treat the loan, how we treat the money that someone has loaned us. When the Ministry doesn't stop the works, which is legally his obligation, unless the corridors call for supervision, since the corridors didn't call for a surveillance tender, they controlled themselves and found that something significant had changed when the work on the tunnels was at stake. It's about the Sharans and the Brdjans, two tunnels that cost tens of millions of euros. We had a few texts in the media that said that 30 centimeters is a difference compared to the project, that big boots couldn't go through it, that they could, but only in the middle of the tape, that they couldn't be used, etc. On the one hand, we wouldn't have this problem and we wouldn't have these doubts, and we don't know until the end of the day what it is, if it was respecting the Planning and Construction Act, which Minister Zorana Mihajlovic absolutely didn't do, and we wouldn't come to this situation today to deceive the public, whether it takes someone else to get a job, without a tender, and that "Planum", as a business that's been working in Russia for 20 years, and that this media spin would never be a cause to get kicked out of work, so that today, without a tender, a company that is in close relations with the ruling party, which is now asphalting everything in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3336	And he's probably from Azerbaijan.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3337	The one from Azerbaijan. Because Azvirt is the company that is the main contractor, but the subcontractor is "Planum". Is the subcontractor going to be another firm now, not Planum, because of the media spins around the tunnels that might be quite all right? We can't know that because there wasn't a tender to oversee these works. So this is a suspicion on our part, and we play with time all the time, we play with the interest that we have to pay, we play with the deadlines that we constantly break, and we play with the money that ultimately has to be returned by the citizens of Serbia. We just heard who paved, who accused him of some previous period, but you can't say the name of the man who paves today in Serbia. Will the company Planum, which guarantees that the tunnels are okay, stay in this business or will the ministry as a subcontractor kick them out of this job and give the whole job to a firm that is close to the top of the SNS? This is a question we ask as responsible people, because we have no facts because there is no tender for supervision by the Ministry of Construction, which is under the Law on Planning and Construction of the Obligations of Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. Unless a tender was called, it had to stop the works, so that media or tabloids today would not speculate whether the "Planum" finished the job properly or not. In the first case, the law was broken, the responsibility of Minister Mihajlovic. Otherwise, you're setting up a job for one of your tycoon partners. The second thing, Serbian citizens are very concerned about loans. You, as a man who is very close to the IMF's policy in Serbia, as someone who is a link to the IMF in Serbia, as a man who has very much held that everything the IMF requires of us, which is not disputed, I just think you're doing it the wrong way, Mr Vujovic, were not there when we talked about taking 4.8 billion from Serbian citizens from the locals, you avoided that session. Minister Brnabic was as the minister who wanted to discuss this with her best interest, but she did not have all the information as well as in what way and why so-called. the consolidation of the budget required by the IMF. But citizens are very shaken when it comes to a constant debt that grows from seconds to seconds. In 2012, Serbia's public debt was 14.7 billion euros. You said -- we owed Serbia 10 billion euros. To take those 10 and replace with the other 10 billion that are more favourable, mathematics says the next thing – that debt remains 14.7 again if you were replacing loans. But then you weren't telling the truth, Mr. Vujovic, but you were taking tens of billions of euros and you put a debt of 14.7 on the back of Serbian citizens another cost of 10 billion euros. Over 70% of you have burdened Serbia's GDP with a public debt that is increasing by 68 euros every second. If you look at Serbia's public debt increasing by 225 000 euros per hour, then you can take this application and that out of the 14.7 billion debt, today we have a debt of 26 billion 741 million euros and every second increases 68 euros, 225 000 euros per hour to Mr Vujovic. You withdraw loans, waste these funds irresponsiblely, and here you can freely see what you have turned Serbia into and what danger the citizens of Serbia face. Euros that flow every second are getting closer to the bankruptcy that you avoid by taking funds from your locals. It's your consolidation of the budget. Every second 68 euros, 225,000 euros per hour, this is the result of the irresponsible government of the Republic of Serbia and what you represent in these four years. I think five million 878 thousand euros on the weekly level is something that is a very big problem, on the daily, pardon, level, something that is a big problem for those who have reduced pensions. How are you going to explain to those who have reduced salaries in the public sector, and what have you done for that money? Where almost 12 billion euros are, when you built 40 kilometers in four years, in the case of Corridor 11. Where's that money? You said you were returning expensive loans, so, here, we see you didn't. On those expensive loans, we can call them that, you added another 12 billion, not so cheap. You are in charge of four years' debt to Josip Broz Tito, Slobodan Milosevic, Kostunica and Boris Tadic together for 70 years. And when it comes to this arrangement that you extend to two years, it speaks only of how you experience your obligation to borrow money from people from the government of the Republic of Serbia, that is, Serbian citizens from another country spend it in a very non-transparent way and create affairs that make you borrow that money. So, by your irresponsibleness and intransparency and disrespect of the law, you've led to the fact that today's "Planum" can be kicked out of business and thrown in without a tender by another firm, a subcontractor close to the SNS top, which will finish a complete job on Corridor 11. If we borrow money for these companies, then citizens need to know who's making money out of these loans. I think that it is quite clear to you what I am talking about, these 60m euros, I hope that you will spend in accordance with this project in the way it is prescribed and the law, and I really, no matter what my colleagues earn, I really hope that this is not about deliberately bypassing Minister Mihajlović's Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which could answer many questions about the affair and the spending of money on citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3338	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3339	Thank you very much. I don't know why you make me have to answer the lies you're making every time, but I'm gonna have to do it in a row. So, first of all, I didn't say it turned out at all, firstly, the Serbian Corridors submitted a request for an extension of the loan just over 60 days after the expiry of the deadline, which is either on condition or assuming that no ratification is required to extend the deadline. Turns out, when the government sent a month later a request, the Technical Government asked Azerbaijan that they had said that they were seeking ratification and then the procedure was changed, and at that moment the Technical Government could no longer file a request because the technical government, as you well know, has no right to submit a request to investigate the legal, approval of the law, or ratification. Parliament was disbanded and the government couldn't do it anymore. So, then, before May 4th, we entered the procedure for making a new agreement that is now in front of you and seeking ratification. The agreement was prepared and sent to Azerbaijan in July. The government was formed, as you know, on August 12th, and we got an agreement signed by Azerbaijan on September 22nd. As soon as possible, we signed it and returned a copy to Azerbaijan and we and they are parallel to the ratification process of the now signed Agreement, which has only one amended member, which is the period of use of credit funds, because the deadline is extended by 24 months. We shouldn't argue about these facts, that's all clear. Nobody's to blame, the government didn't have a moment when the law was required to change, that moment the technical government no longer had the mandate to change it, we're doing it the first time after that. Secondly, as for the technical stuff about the loan, I'm really sorry that Minister Mihajlovic isn't here, it would really be an overrun of my powers and my ministries and my people to get into who he was supposed to do. I think it would be a good idea for those things that are not subject to today's debate to ask a parliamentary question and get a concrete answer, both the Serbian Corridors and the ministry will answer you in an argument. Returning to questions on the way, your comments. So, I'm sorry I wasn't here when the Law on the financing of local self-government was considered. No one, no one, is taking anything away, it's simply about changing parameters to neutralize what was done five years ago by changing that law, and then eight billion are redistributed from the level of the Republic to the level of local self-government, and now we've been struggling to bring it back to a minimum, not because someone is asking us to do so in fiscal consolidation, but because we want to have the assurances of all of us, first of all, and then the international community that we're going to have the structural instruments of the local and republican budget that are sustainable on the long term. The idea is that the place doesn't just take money based on the so-called. taxed taxes, rather than making a greater tax effort to investigate and collect their own taxes, primarily real estate taxes, and to carry out so-called "business Real Estates". Nivellation, horizontal fluctuations according to certain tax instruments. The law proposed with such content passed a public debate, but unfortunately it was not agreed politically and therefore did not reach the Assembly. We'll go back to that question, it seems to me within the next five, six months, since we have to ask the question of how who uses which instruments, primarily from the point of view, affects the business environment. Since using instruments such as a company is not only a question of local self-government income but it is a question of creating an even business environment to which the investor reacts and thus affects the development of local self-government, the creation of new jobs and everything else. Finally, from the point of view of debt, all this would be good with that bill of yours if it wasn't completely the other way around. In December 31st or 1 January, the debt level was 24.81 billion, with yesterday's debt was 24.15 billion, which is 600 million less. We're lucky the odds aren't working against us, but the debt's shrinking. This wouldn't all make any sense if the elements that do this didn't say it in favor. We had a planned deficit during the first nine months of this year that was an integral part of the plan, which we have with the fund and an integral part of the budget that you yourself approved here. At the level of the Republic of 120 billion for the whole year, at the general state level of 160 billion. We had a surplus instead, so 130 billion better results than the one that was planned. This does not mean that all this is savings, it just means that 130 billion euros, i.e. 1.1 billion euros, have been better, and therefore had a lower need for gross borrowing, gross borrowing. Net borrowing is gross minus payment. So the situation here is just where we refinance, and we refinance a lot of things, it doesn't change the level of debt, but it changes interest. The interest, which you saw in the budget, is 140 billion dinars, should be less next year. Finally, one message that we're all on the same wavelength. Our goal is to make interest less than the growth of the social product. So when you multiply the social product at the growth rate next year, which is planned at 4.319 billion, when you multiply it, and when you see what that is, the growth of the social product compared to the previous year, if that figure is greater than 139 billion, how much interest we are planning, then you have, the so-called primary surplus, then we're saving. So when we have a deficit with interest, if our deficit is less than interest, and we plan to be smaller, we plan to be at 2%, which is 80 billion, then we have a primary surplus and an improved situation. They're your rappers. That someone calculates 26 billion, or how much, so it's included in both the local and the debt of this company, it's not comparable data. Important data is if we and the fund have reduced the target deficit from 160 billion to 80 billion, in half, including the takeover, possible debt takeover at the end of the year, which we will discuss here in the Assembly when the time comes, then we are on a very good path. If we've reduced the debt level by over 600 million since the beginning of January, and instead of the 120 billion deficit, we've had a surplus of ten billion, then count how much we're ahead of the passing times that we set ourselves in January of the month.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3340	Thank you. (Balša Bozovic, from town: Replica. Nothing persuasive, really. The minister answered you and even fenced himself from those things that are not in the description of his work and jurisdiction. He said to ask questions to the Minister in charge when he arrived. The minister said everything about the knowledge he himself had. Marko Djurisic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3341	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, I think this Minister's intervention has shown how bad practice is, which clearly exists in this assembly term. Namely, this is the second law we discuss in the Assembly. The first law, last week, was ahead of the government by Mr Vujovic, scheduled for the government's representative and his government counterpart, Minister Brnabic. Now we hear the minister that he was sorry he wasn't and we're sorry he wasn't, because, first of all, the law that we adopted at the time was from his domain, because we wanted to get answers that he now gave us in a few sentences here, even though let's say, today is no longer a topic. But today, from all these discussions, we see that many more answers, and the minister himself said so, could be given by Minister Mihajlovic, who is not present today, so the minister has fenced himself and said - I cannot give you all these answers now, and her presence here is necessary. This law is not controversial. We had one deal, a four-year loan, to withdraw 300m euros. We didn't do it. We withdrew almost 80% and now a deal has been made with the state, or the government of Azerbaijan, to extend the deadline by two more years. Now, the normal question is - why aren't we? What happened that we didn't finish this job in four years? The minister says - I can't give you that answer, it's a question for Mrs. Mihajlovic. I can only do it again. I don't know, all of our discussions seem to me to go like that in the wind, there won't be an answer, and we won't find out what happened, who's responsible for this job, a 300 million loan, with which it was supposed to be built a little more than 40 kilometers of highway on Corridor 11 isn't finished and we're going to hear the answer here in parliament to these media speculations about whether there's been any failures on the executed work on Corridor 11? Can you drive a truck or not through a tunnel? Will the Prime Minister, when he opens this Corridor, drive, as he announced himself, the truck, so will he blow his tires off if he's possibly missing something a little bit of a centimeter so he can pass, or not? We're turning one serious thing into a circus. I think that's bad. I am asking the Minister here now, since he is a member of the government, to transfer to the Government that when they agree on government, they send us a bill and a memo saying which ministers will be present, that all ministers will come, if we want to have a quality debate and agree whether we will support something or not. I also have a question – what about monitoring the performance of the work on Corridor 11? Was it in accordance with the law? Is that tender being called by the Ministry or not? Who was in charge, if there was one? Then, let's hear the answer – what about more than two and a half years ago, an initiative turned into a government conclusion to abolish Corridori's company, because it was evaluated when the new minister first came to the position of that resort, previously led by another resort, and then transferred to the building, and now in this assembly in that term, in that vault, it is inefficient, ignorant sitting there, it should be abolished? The government comes to a conclusion and then nothing. He says there's no call for the assembly. Two-and-a-half years can't be called the assembly to implement that conclusion by the government? Well, who are the members of that congregation, who are these people? Who named them, who do they match? How much are they paid, at the end of the line, for that, seeing as it's the main theme, to bid on who, how much and how much does he make? This discussion today, if there were a minister, should certainly raise the question – how does the road economy in Serbia work in general, to get answers. Here, I've been going through the paper today, and then besides this story about the tunnel in Corridor 11, we have a story about some 41, it seems to me, the corridor on Corridor 10, on the side of Bulgaria, that correcting bad projects will cost us 300m euros more. Then we listen, it says again that the drum stream payment ramp, which was to be opened in ten days, October 25, will move in seven months, seven months for a simple job, not excessively, I suppose, building complicated. It says -- any bad weather, raining in April and May. That's an explanation. It's been raining for two months, now seven months longer, a job worth 2.1 billion dinars. Will someone be responsible for that? We talked here, since these Corridors and all these papers that have been done for the last four, five years at the end of the highways 10, 11, have been used many times in the campaign, since we have always had elections, both in 2014 and this year. Then because of the campaign's need, one share on Corridor 10 is open for another winter. A week after the opening of a two-metre hole. What's the matter? Well, we had to open up, you know, from the government, and we didn't have time to put on a final layer. How does the road economy in Serbia work? This is a question for today's debate, which, I fear, we will not get an answer, or we will get an answer – it is the performer's fault, no one will pay for it. That no one can know anymore or, as the minister said earlier about the issue of public debt, says - no one is guilty. What I personally find the biggest problem with this whole debate is the question of the future. How and what will be built and done in Serbia? The government has not agreed on a single new mile of highway for four and a half years in various terms. What ends today on Corridor 11, which ends in Corridor 10, was announced for March, April 2017, and now continues for the end of 2017 with an amazing explanation, says that no one has finished before, so what does it matter now, when we have waited 70 years, we wait another two, four or six months. It's all right. What's that gonna do when it's over? Will paper come from the Government here on how it will be financed and when will the share from Obrenovac to Belgrade be done? We've been talking to the Chinese for a year, a commercial loan, like this, like that, and then just stop talking about it and nothing happens. When will the Corridor 11 end? There are questions here that need to go again today. As complicated a job as it is, maybe it's best to say what we heard here today. In 2008, a spatial plan was adopted, starting with the planning, in 2012 a credit was signed for Corridor 11. Today 2016, we haven't finished this job yet. What year is this Corridor 11 going to be over? Can anyone say that today? That's the question. What about the Moravia highway, the Pojate-Preljina highway? That's not what you're talking about anymore. We made it up, so I have to say, it's our priority to build a highway from Nis to Pristina and Drac. The economic interest in such a building is beyond me. It is good to connect with the region, but I think it is much more important for Serbia to build the Moravska highway, the new Sad-Sabac highway that is constantly being announced. Whenever some elections come, here they come, they say – let's go, tunnel through Fruska Gora, first that, then highway away to Capca. Where is it? Where's the funding? Is there going to be a bill on some kind of responsibility for that? In four-and-a-half years, we haven't gotten a job like that. Such a bill on a loan agreement, whether or not with a state or with a financial institution, we didn't get it. That's not gonna happen. We had the opening ceremony one metre of railroad. The prime minister of the Republic of Serbia, the prime minister of China, opens a meter of railroads, and then first they say it will be a railway, it will go 300km an hour to Budapest when we restore it, and then after a while we say, well, it will go 150, it doesn't have to be 300, and now there's nothing, nothing is done. Is there an agreement? When's it gonna start working? What infrastructure are we going to employ, businesses, domestics? We're all saying that domestic businesses are needed, but what are they going to do if there are no plans, if there's no means of funding. I do not believe that Minister Vujovic can now answer these questions. Sam said it wasn't from his resor. It was his to explain to us that instead of 60 days of extension, which could have been without ratification, we now have to ratify this amendment to the agreement. It's all right. That technical thing, more or less, is not controversial. It's the point of contention. What about these money of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because they return every loan we grant here, works, how they are treated, whether it's domestic or not? It's just amazing, we keep saying that we have a problem with the selection of performers because our most important criterion is the price and then companies show up, dumping prices, to collect multiple amounts or to do a bad job after the extra work. This year there was a bridge story on the bypass at Chačka, whether the quality of concrete was four or five, I don't understand whether the performer did what he had to or didn't do, and then the poor guy's road manager how he had to accept that performer, because he gave the lowest price. We're the ones who need to change those laws, that if the problem is that the highest-cost bidders show up, and they can't do the work and they know they can't do the work at that price, find a way that doesn't happen. If that happens, the damage we all have as citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and this debt, whether it is 24 or 26 billion, is less important, it is a debt individually of each of us. Will this government do anything about it? Today, the only thing we haven't heard is that the previous government is responsible. That's mostly not what we discussed today. It was by a colleague who has a proposal for a completely different economic development, which I fear is not sustainable. It seems nice to apologize, but if you follow it from beginning to end, you see inconsistency in that proposal. Without answering these questions, our essential consent to the proposal for this law, or the approval of this agreement, is impossible. The question arises – are we going to come back to some situation with another agreement to complete, to build infrastructure facilities in Serbia? We need to sit down and see where the problem is, how to solve it, not just solve the consequences. I repeat my call and ask the Minister to tell his colleagues at the government that when these topics are like this, all those who are set to have a quality debate and better decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3342	In accordance with Articles 27 and 87, paragraphs 2 and 3 are replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure, I'd like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours. The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3343	Thank you. Today, we have another bill on the agenda that is very similar to the proposal we had yesterday, and in the sense that it's a Lex specialis that's only been passed for one purpose. It seems to be the practice of doing things that way. For each project, Serbia needs one special law and a special way to settle things. When we look at this loan agreement that we get from Azerbaijan to build this section of the highway, from Belgrade to Cačka, of course, that highway is absolutely necessary to the Republic of Serbia, as well as many other roads. However, the way we finance the construction of this highway, I think, is wrong and I would like to discuss it today. So this agreement was signed during the previous government, to remind all of this was preceded by an agreement on an economic and technological power plant that we signed with Azerbaijan in 2011 which was also ratified by the Assembly, very similar to the agreement with the United Arab Emirates that came next business agreements. This looks like the matrix that we've been working on so far and based on economic policy. Then somewhere in June 2011, I remind the citizens of a monument opened in Tasmajdan Park Hajdar Aliev, who is the leader of Azerbaijan who passed away in 2003, who is the old communist leader of Azerbaijan, who was then inherited by his son in 2003, Ilhan Aliev, who is still president of Azerbaijan. His father, after the conflict at Nagorno Karabah with the Armenians, was with the help of a military coup and managed to take power. In some elections in 2003, where there is a shadow, according to the World Organisation's election reports, it came to power, and then, I think of the shame of the citizens of Belgrade and our famous writer who I won't mention his name to because I don't think he would want it to happen, the monument was opened with the presence of the former president of the Republic and then the mayor of 2011. And then since June, followed the loan agreement, there's obviously been some connection between the monument and the later lending. The state of Azerbaijan itself, since it's important to see who gives us the loan, has 9.8 million inhabitants, has $54 billion in GDP. Citizens of Azerbaijan have an average salary of about 300 dollars a month. The minimum profit in Azerbaijan is about 81 dollars a month. So the state of Serbia has come to this level that it has to take loans, at least that's how it's shown, and it's a huge contribution, and that's what we've set up the system very well, so we're taking loans from countries that have a 300-dollar average profit per capita. And then, along the way, we also sign this agreement that ratified this Assembly in 2012 before this new set of furniture came into power today. And then in that agreement, we take a 300m-euro loan to build 40km of road. It is a heavy share of tunnels, and in the contract itself we are installing a clause that says 49% of goods and services have to come from Serbia, which means 51% at least 49%, 51% left to go and performers from Azerbaijan. Citizens probably remember, especially the elderly, who lived in the times of the unclassified. At the time, the SFRY signed these contracts in Africa, Asia, that our companies were doing the work and we funded it, because this is a good economic model for the country to finance the development of its companies and the growth of domestic GDP. Of course, as far as companies receiving such works are concerned, this deal doesn't look so good, since no infrastructure can be paid only by building infrastructure. It is used when we talk about roads, but a very important component that when you are already taking a loan to build infrastructure, all that money will be spent on domestic companies to create, or support domestic GDP, they will not benefit from building infrastructure. How respected is that in Serbia? We don't know. Why don't we know? Because in this bill to extend the availability of loans, which it pointed out on 4 May 2016, today is October and we have this law by emergency procedure, as the urgency apparently appeared in October. This is a loan available to extend to an additional two years. However, in the very explanation, i.e. the material obtained by the MPs, which should give consent and approval to the Government and the Ministry to extend this loan, a contract signed by the Azerbaijani firm Azvirt since 7 April 2012, to see exactly what was signed between Corridor and the company. Nor do we have a reckoning on how exactly funds have been spent until today, who has received this money and what goods and services that money has been paid for so that we can have a clean picture and then we can vote on whether this contract is good for the Republic of Serbia or not is good for the Republic of Serbia. Of course, the signed agreements are signed agreements, they must be respected, this one has expired and we need to see if we should continue this agreement, whether it is in the interest of the Republic of Serbia. Because we're already boasting about the surplus, maybe we could invest the rest ourselves, finish the highway so it's not just 49% for the domestic economy, but for those 100%, because that's something the domestic construction industry would like to see happen. Instead, we ask only an extension, namely this Assembly, to confirm the extension of the availability of the loan, without clear transparency, without a clear report that should prove that the money has been spent correctly, that the Treaty clauses have been respected and that this agreement is in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Let's just say we don't know if what's been spent so far, and the explanation says 238m euros, i.e. 79.5% of the total amount and these 37 temporary situations, did 49% of their spent money really go to goods and services from the Republic of Serbia. Our experience in the past is that in all of these and these contracts, whether we're dealing with companies from the West or from the East or from any other part, because it really shouldn't be the basis by which we should appreciate a contract, whether or not these and these provisions of the contract have been respected. Let's say, when we built Michaelo Pupin, that is, when the Chinese firm built that bridge, I was really interested in a full analysis of how much money went to domestic subcontractors, how many went to foreign contractors, how much money was spent on certain works, how many services, and how many goods were purchased in the country or abroad. All these parameters are extremely important so that we can assess whether this kind of funding of infrastructure is cost-effective and good for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I repeat, it is not a question of whether to build this infrastructure or say this time from Belgrade to Cačka, or whether it is necessary to build a bridge in Zemun, but whether this is the best way to do it, whether this is the best incentive for the domestic economy and whether this is best for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Usually what happens when we have foreign subcontractors is that what domestic subcontractors get from foreign contractors, excuse me, not subcontractors, is that they get crumbs of total project cost, that their prices are killed, that the extra money goes to foreign contractors. Corruption often happens in structures like this. This international corruption is known in the world, where agreements are made and where the surplus money is poured into the accounts of those who are actually making a decision whether an agreement is accepted or whether the state accepts the agreement. So it's very important transparency. I would like to use this contract as the first contract in which we will have this full transparency and see clearly what money has been spent on, how much it has gone to domestic subcontractors, how much it has gone to foreign contractors and that it is available to MPs before we approach the debate and vote of the law we are asked to do. We think this infrastructure-building policy is deeply wrong. We have to invest in infrastructure because without it there is no development, no economic development, it takes a lot of roads to build, but the way that they build is not such that as a third-world country we take loans, and then we pay these loans to foreign contractors to work with us. Also, when we contract this percentage of 49% to make sure that the money is really spent and ended up with a subcontractor in Serbia and that goods in Serbia have been paid. One more thing is very interesting about this loan, and it concerns the provisions of the contract, i.e. agreements that talk about who pays taxes, taxes, fees, etc. The contract provides for the borrower to pay all taxes, all taxes, all fees. This is just the wrong way to do things. What Serbia needs is when we do a project to do a good analysis, to determine exactly how much it should cost on the market at the prices available, the market, so that a tender is made up, international tenders are written, all who can provide these services to get both the best price and the best quality. Since we've never done this job before, or we haven't seriously approached this, but we've always done it half the time, we don't do the right analysis, then or we have endless extensions, we pay a lot more, we have a big corruption polygon, or some projects just announce themselves, and they never even start. This is a matter of the seriousness of the state, this is a matter of establishing a system. This transparency that is necessary in all spheres of society is necessary in this area as well. The problem today, of course, is that this law represents the finance minister. He was supposed to be here when it came to the Law on Taxes, that is, the incomes of local self-government, and today he was supposed to be the minister of traffic, which we could then ask all these things. So I have no question for the minister himself, because most of the questions concern the minister of traffic. I repeat, Serbia does not need bold speciality laws, it does not need to make a special law for each individual case, because it tells citizens and the world that we do not have a system and that this is not a legal state, but if you want to do something in Serbia, there is no system, you have to agree and in a direct contract make a contract that will then be ratified by the Assembly. That's, of course, deeply wrong. The other thing, I hope we finally start with transparency, so whenever we propose laws, we have one detailed analysis of how much it costs us. In this particular case - exactly what we spent money on, how much money went to a foreign contractor, for which works, for which services, what tax situation, who paid what taxes, customs, etc., how much it went to domestic subcontractors for which works and for which services. Because of all this movement, the DJ will vote against this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3344	Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3345	Let me just take a minute. I'm afraid I can't answer your first question positively because it's the nature of such agreements. So that's the condition of these international contracts that have the power of law. They have to be brought in. We don't have a better solution for now. It would be better if there were some roof contracts and individual projects in this context were implemented. This way that we have that the Corridors of Serbia or the Railways or someone else appears as in fact as an investor, and receives, our participation even receives through subsidies, it's some old practice that we haven't changed so far. The budget includes the participation of the railway in a loan financed by the Russian Federation as a subsidy, which is completely anachronous. It's not any subsidy, it's the state's participation in the loan, so here Corridori appears as an investor and they get funds through us and they realize this themselves. A bunch of documents, everything goes through them and that main contract is between the Corridor, in fact, and the Azerbaijani side, the main contractor is the mentioned firm. As far as your implicit, explicit reporting request is concerned, I fully support you and we will ask for even before the adoption, we are preparing one regulation in the planning of investment projects in Serbia, where we will ask for sufficient documentation from ideas, through previous work, project feasibility, to final, to project evaluation, to report on the implementation of all projects, where we will be very happy or to deliver the whole projects or to the Assembly. It's accepted as an idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3346	Stefana Miladanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3347	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable ministers, respected ministers from the ministry, are extremely important to the SPS. It's important, here's why. First of all, this agreement, signed in 2012, I can say, marks the start of a successful and quality bilateral co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Azerbaijan. What is also important is that this agreement, in fact, covers part of a major infrastructure project that ends in Serbia in line with the national transport development strategy in the Republic of Serbia. What's important for the Socialists is to point out that there wasn't this project, in fact, this agreement, the project of building so-called. Corridor 11 in Serbia would not even begin. When it comes to borrowing for infrastructure projects mentioned by colleagues today during the debate, I would repeat one fact, and probably you ministers know that, too, the European Investment Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the World Bank provide funds for large infrastructure projects with the most favourable conditions, but exclusively for those projects of European importance. In our case in our travel network it's Corridor 10. The E-763 highway, whose share is the subject of this agreement, still does not have that importance, regardless of what connects Serbia-Montenegro with this section of the Belgrade highway -- the South Adriatic, is in fact a direction that connects Romania, Serbia, Montenegro and the Italian sea route in a broader sense. In fact, it extends from Temisvar through Belgrade, Vrsac, in fact, Cačka, Požega, Podgorica to Bar and the sea route to Bari. The very share of the loan is the share of Ljig-Preljina 40.6 kilometers and consists of three shares. The construction of these shares began on 25 February 2013, and on the road there are a large number of facilities, which are five tunnels, 66 bridges, overpasses of a total area of 60 thousand square metres, 40 water streams are made, 46 support walls, built three resorts and two loops of Takovo and Preljina. The main contractor of these works provided for in this agreement is the construction firm Asbit from Azerbaijan, and we can estimate that during the implementation of this project, this Azerbaijani firm certainly proved to be a credible partner, but also as a friend of Serbia. The construction of this highway has also activated domestic construction operations. In addition to the Azerbaijani firm, which is the main contractor of these works, the work of subcontractors, suppliers, co-operatives is performed by 101 Serbian companies. The SPS parliamentary group gave full support to the then government during the adoption of this agreement in 2012, and voted in favour of this agreement, starting with the importance of capital investment for Serbia's development, but also the importance of the road route we are talking about, since it is actually the most burdened traffic in Serbia today. We are witnessing that regional development certainly depends in Serbia today on the development of transport infrastructure. Many local self-governments, especially those that are border areas, most often eastern and western Serbia face the departure of investors, in fact by giving up investors precisely because of lack of infrastructure. For us, the completion of this project confirms something else. It is that the Republic of Serbia is ready to ensure continuity in the implementation of key national projects regardless of who started these projects, and I believe that in the future, all the projects that today's government is launching will be able and ready to realise. What is coming to us is to find new and efficient forms, to lend funding to future projects because they are really necessary for Serbia. By building and completing this project that we are talking about today, I believe that all Western Serbia will start to develop and the SAA will certainly support this agreement and all other agreements that are in the interest of Serbia's development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3348	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Katarina Rakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3349	Thank you, Vice President. Dear gentlemen of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have heard a lot today at least about the subject of the agenda. So there's no Lex specialis on the agenda today, or anything similar to the authentic interpretation of a certain member of the law. Today there is an international agreement on the agenda and this loan agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan. The very subject of this loan is defined in the first member of the law that is before us today, which is the financing of the construction of the shares of the highway Ljig - Bolkovci, Bolkovci – Takovo, Takovo – Preljina. As we have heard several times today in the debate, the amount of this loan is 300m euros from Azerbaijan and eightm euros from the amount the government of the Republic of Serbia should allocate from its budget. As regards the text of the agreement itself, it was originally signed on 2 February 2012 and entered into force on 3 May 2012, from that deadline it was due to expire on 4 May this year. The amendments to this agreement that are currently on the agenda should lead to the fact that the amount of credit that has not been used until 4 May of this year, which is close to 60m euros left untapped, or 20% of credit, need to be made practically one annex that will extend the duration of this loan. What is very important to say is that what we are doing today with these changes to the original text of the agreement for the Government of the Republic of Serbia is not going to cost anything at all. If there was an error in the performance of the works, this government has found that those who have been working on the shares themselves will bear these mistakes. As for the very section that is the subject of this agreement, its very length is 40.3 kilometers, it has 66 bridges and 3,624 meters below the tunnel. More precisely, the shares of Ljig – Bolkovci is 10.72 kilometers long, there are 22 bridges and one tunnel of 200 meters. The second part of Bolkovci – That is the length of 12 kilometers and there are 12 bridges on it. The last share is the share of Takovo – Preljine, 17 kilometers long, there are 28 bridges and three tunnels that are a total length of 1612 meters. What's important to point out is that when we look at the average of how much this share cost us, we come up with a figure of 7.62m euros per km. As for the realisation of the project itself, meaning what has been done on the ground, a total of 97% has been done, which means that by the end of the 100% of the total project remains very little, so it is certainly foreseen that the share itself is being opened, as announced on 31 October this year. As I have already stated, the total value of the loan is about 308 million, 300 million by Azerbaijan and eight million by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, the agreement provides for 40% of the total value of the loan to be used for suppliers, i.e. goods and for those working in Serbia. What I can say is that according to the analysis of what has been done so far, 101 companies from the Republic of Serbia worked as a subcontractor and according to the analysis did not do 49%, but 70% of the total loan will be spent on things, namely suppliers representing domestic products that are done in Serbia, which means that this loan is absolutely respected by Azerbaijan. What I wanted to give in response to my DSS colleague, who said that Azvirt, who hired subcontractors, hired companies that are absolutely new and that do not exist, which were founded overnight to do so. Here, I'll just mention some of them. It is the "Energoproject", "Planum", "Rako Mitrovic". These are very familiar companies to me. You will agree that many long years work, not only in Serbia but worldwide. The problem is that they may be used to not doing the quality work in Serbia as they have learned to work in the world. For example, the company "Planum" is that it had an obligation to now fix the error that was observed, is that it has machines, but it used those machines in Russia, because it is a country that respects standards and has standards. Earlier in Serbia, it was not working first, and after that standards were not respected. This government, along with the Ministry of Construction, Traffic and Infrastructure, has introduced standards that will have to be respected for now and in the future. So if someone doesn't like it, really don't blame the rest of the ministry. Furthermore, we've had a letter from the LDP and nothing's been done. Well, gentlemen, I can specifically say that the factory was opened the other day, or started building a water factory. So you didn't do it, not now, but for the last 30 years, absolutely nothing, not for Serbia, but especially for your city from which you come. You haven't done anything, and you're the last thing you need to do to teach us that nothing's done. What I regret to point out is that the money invested in road infrastructure practically returns threefold, which through tourism, through transport, and through economy. In his exposé, the prime minister said investment in infrastructure is not a cost, but an investment for the future. Just from what the prime minister has said, I can conclude that this government, together with Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic, has absolutely invested a lot in the future of Serbia's citizens. As a first example, I would like to say that only in the previous two years has 84 kilometers of highways been built. That much, so 84 kilometers, hasn't been done in 30 years total. Here, on this alone, I can say freely that we are in a lot of cascade for EU countries, but according to an analysis in the construction of highways, Serbia is currently above the European average. That, of course, is not all. In the plan of this government and the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, another 106km of highway was planned by mid- 2018. So all I'm talking about right now is highways. These 106km would be done, or planned to be done in Corridor 10 and thus complete the share towards Macedonia and Bulgaria. If these plans are achieved, and I believe that according to the dynamics that are now and according to all the plans that have been achieved so far, this will certainly be the achievement that is unprecedented in recent history. However, in addition to what I have cited, which is only building highways, in the previous period, and of course in the future, it will also be working on rehabilitation of roads. What has not been done for years, it is a maintenance of roads and rehabilitation. Road rehabilitation is particularly important for traffic safety. Also, for 20 years, something bad has been accumulated, and no road infrastructure has been restored. In the previous term, however, we have verified the agreements that provided the funds, worth 390m euros, to rehabilitate the roads. Only this year until the summer was 158km, it was planned in the second phase to do another 67km times in this year. Over the next three years, these funds that I have listed are necessary, i.e. it is planned to do another 1,100 km of roadways that are listed by the priorities. I quote again, this is road rehabilitation. In addition to what I initially said, 84 kilometers of highway was done in just two years and it is planned to do another 106km of highway by the following year, i.e. by mid- 2018. One of my previous colleagues showed one count. I must stress that the number did not run by the government headed by Aleksandar Vukic, the figure did not mention the Serbian Progressive Party. Serbia was in debt and before that, it wasn't money, it was working, but they didn't work to make Serbia's citizens better, they worked so that most of their leaders would be better. They used to build the most expensive bridges in the world, their contribution to the future are fairies, or whatever I call them, they're in the pasture, they're Hetherland and so on. This government certainly didn't do something like that, and in addition to all the roads I've made, I'm going to say that the government, along with the Ministry of Infrastructure and Traffic, has done a lot for the railroad along the way. In the last 30 years, the railroad has really led to a state where it barely worked. You had a situation that years back from the annual required budget, that the railway would be in one normal state, without any investment, invested only 0.8%. We had a story here that Minister Mihajlovic had a problem with the Russians. What I can say is that it's the one who opened the railroad loan, and that's right from Russia, the Russian loan. Also, what I have to especially point out is what was done in air traffic, our national airline founded by this government for a short period of time has become a leader in the region, and therefore our airport has raised to one world level. Not to mention the progress I made on the Duing Business List. We were among the last, 91st. For a very short period, Serbia has progressed as many as 32 places and we are now in 59th place. However, if we continue to do this, another 20 seats are expected. All I've done is this government in just four years, and it's come, I can tell you, not to an empty house, but to a house that was fat in charge and in the thick minuses. What I could say as president of the Assembly of Friendship with Azerbaijan is that the people of Azerbaijan are indeed our friendly people and they knew it many times and showed it. Of course, I would like to point out what my colleagues pointed out before me, which is that Azerbaijan did not recognise Kosovo's unilaterally declared independence, and what I also convinced myself of is that the first plane flew out of Baku with help from Serbia when the catastrophic floods in 2014. Azerbaijan was the first to send help, one of which is currently worth 400,000 euros, so we can consider them as a friendly people. From what I've stated, it's very important that today we adopt this agreement on changes and additions to the loan agreement, above all, to bring this job we're working on to an end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3350	Thank you. (Balša Bozovic, from town: Replica. You have no right, Mr. Bozovic, to a replica. She didn't mention either party or you at any point, and maybe you recognize each other. (Nataša Micic, from the place: Replica. It's about LDP. ) No, no LDP was mentioned at any point. I'll check the stenogram after the break. Now, in accordance with article 87, I'm setting a break from one hour. We'll continue at 3:10 p.m. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing today's work. Right on the line, MP Natasa Micic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3352	Thank you. If my dear colleague had listened to me more carefully, she would understand that I said that LDP would support this agreement, aware of the importance of that stock. But at the same time, I remain in the position that the government acted irresponsiblely and unseriously, firstly, which failed to implement the contract within the deadline, and pointed out on 4 May this year, meaning, four years later, she was late with this contract annex, the construction deadlines were broken, so we are not responsible at all for the agreement, nor for the conclusion, nor for the realization, without saying that the unreal promises of the prime minister in 2014 were built 200 km from Belgrade to Zlatibor by the end of 2016, measurable and time, for days, months, years, but also in miles. Now it's down to only one fifth of that promised road, just 40 kilometers, and we're back here in some kind of trouble. Secondly, as regards the mentioned pleasure factory water, a truly well-intentioned advice to the entire parliamentary majority – you better not mention it. Because it's been three and a half years since the poisoning, because the citizens of Užica suffer it all the time, because it's in the government's jurisdiction, because it's not a whim, it's a basic need for citizens and because it's the government's jurisdiction, "Serbia" and the Environment Agency. And then the minister was Zorana Mihajlovic, then she was Minister of Energy and Ecology, and we experienced that after three and a half years a tender project had just been completed and now it is just beginning. So it took you three and a half years to complete just project documentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3353	Thank you. Right on the line, the word has a People's MP Katarina Rakic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3354	Of course I heard a great whole discussion, which is why I needed to react. What I'm saying is that the advice and criticism of the SNS and the entire SNS parliamentary group will certainly listen and respect only those who are more valuable, smarter and more advanced than us. I can't listen to criticism from those who've never worked a meter of times, that they're now criticizing us who in just four years have done more than all of them in 30 years, although I don't know where she's been before and how much more so, in 30 years, they haven't done as much as this government has done in just two years. And I listed a water factory because it was really a criticism from someone who couldn't do something for his place 30 years back found him criticizing someone who worked so short and so much. Let me say it one more time, don't give us any advice.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3355	I don't know who my colleague's been thinking about for 30 years. I guess he's thinking about the SPS coalition partners, since they've been in power for almost 30 years, except Djindjic's government. So LDP was never in the government. True, some of us, individuals, were involved in Djindjic's government, and then the problems were incomparably greater, precisely because we were left with bad roads, debts, hospitals without material, schools without windows, roofs, broken roads, and now you're going to say... So, absolutely, the LDP never took part in the government, and the government of Zoran Djindjic did more in two years, changed that Ibar highway for those two years and two months, besides all the problems and debts she managed to do even that, which is a lot more than what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3356	Since none of the heads of Parliament's groups, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, appear to be a word, we are moving to debate according to the order of the MPs according to the application for the word. (Saša Radulovic, from the post: I have volunteered as a representative of the parliamentary group. ) The word has a People's MP Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3357	Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3358	Mr. Radulovic, my failure, because I haven't been informed from the service, but you have no right to the Rules of Procedure. Now let me explain. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: How come I don't have one? Don't give me any lessons, just say the word. ) In addition to the fact that the Rules of Procedure serve to show it to us here, read the Rules of Procedure and you will see that during the debate you have the right to contact as head of the Parliament Club or as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group once or twice. If you report twice, you have the right to speak before presenting the MPs who go by the list and for the second time after the debate of the MPs on the list, for a total of up to 20 minutes. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: You didn't give the others a word? ) The word has a folk MP, Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3359	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, dear fellow Members of Parliament, I must admit that I preferred to take Mr Vujovic over on the subject of the adoption of the Law on the financing of local self-government, and today we are talking here with Mrs Zorana Mihajlovic, but it seems to be some government tactics to cross the ministers depending on the topic on the agenda. As far as today's topic is concerned, which is an extension of the availability of funds to finance Corridor 11, we are making that decision to extend the deadline to two years, because someone was not effective who was to be and to realize the work within the foreseen time for which the credit was taken. You've realized 80% of that job. You've been in power for four years and you're carrying the sole responsibility for why the job isn't done by the end. In parallel with this, instead of talking about some other corridors today, some other major corridors, some other big projects, we haven't finished what someone else negotiated and provided funds. I didn't see the government negotiate and start to realize something new for these four years, which is where I primarily mean the Moravia Corridor. The Moravski corridor is the centre of Serbia's housewives, the most densely populated part of Serbia, and 500,000 people live in towns from Kruševec to Cačka in the Moravska Valley. That highway connects Corridors 10 and 11. The prime minister did not answer that question when presenting his programme. I expect an answer from the minister, because I've asked it as a parliamentary question. I don't know why and by what criteria is the Nis-Dres highway a higher priority than that? I'd like someone to explain that to me. As for the loan we are extending, in fact, which has already been raised, we continue the borrowing practice, which is undeniable. And it doesn't matter, Mr. Minister, whether some MP, for a hundred million, will mistake today's state of public debt to Serbia, or the state of debt that Serbian citizens have, is indisputable that more than 24 billion euros is due at the moment. It is indisputable that in 2012, it was about 15 billion. So, for almost ten billion, you owe the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In doing so, in parallel with borrowing, you took citizens all these four years, you took from doctors, from professors, from pensioners, from farmers, from businessmen, so you could say as you used to say...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3360	Please, buddy, we're talking about the Anex contract, not pensions, not doctors, not enlightenment, we're not even talking about the highway.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3361	But the minister talked about it for a little while.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3362	No, the minister is in a position to explain, I listened very well to the debate, the minister explained why a technical extension of the contract is needed. So it's about financial law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3363	Will you just make it up to me, please? So, the minister was talking about the surplus, and that's why I was talking about this point, why, if we already have so much funding in the budget and if the whole country and society are supposed to work so that someone can go to a press conference and say we have a surplus in the budget, that we don't have more deficits, you, Mr. Minister, probably as an expert you should know when you have surplus in the budget of an undeveloped country, that means by the rule of deficit in the pockets of population and economy. Today, the whole of Serbia is working and singled out so that you can say that you have a surplus in the budget and that one of the international financial institutions can commend you. Furthermore, as for the loans we withdrew, I would like to ask Mrs. Mihajlovic today, and if you are here, what about the signed contract for building the Belgrade-Budapest railway last year in the People's Republic of China? It's been said that the papers will begin this year. We haven't heard any of that yet, except the Prime Minister once...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3364	Comrade, I ask you to return to the agenda again. So this is a February 2, 2012. This is an assignment that neither this government nor this majority. To remind you, the Democratic Party and Boris Tadic lost power in August 2012. You're talking about a contract from February 2, 2012. So it has nothing to do with public debt and this government. So it's an annex, an extension of position. There's no increase in the value of the loan itself, nor do we have to pay for any penalty or anything else. Please talk about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3365	That's what I'm doing, but I'm asking you to take a closer look at that picture. It certainly has to do with the ineffectiveness of your government that was unable to do the job that someone else had arranged in four years. You said that someone else had provided these funds, you were unable to complete them at the right time and within the given deadlines, that is to say withdraw and complete this project. August 25th was the deadline for completion, and now we're extending it for another two years. So, it's just talking about the state of the travel industry in Serbia, it's also talking about what all the countries in the region are laughing at today, whether we're making it or not, no one can determine it anymore, tunnels that are lower than standards, whether a truck will pass or not we'll see it. And it is certainly one thing that Minister Mihajlovic said that certain works must be corrected on that highway and on those tunnels and that one level of asphalt must be removed, and this speaks of commitment, it speaks of responsibility. Of course, respected Minister Vujovic, I'm not sure if you've met, and I'd like to hear from you that today in Serbia, travel companies without a tender get jobs maintaining the roads of regional and state, without public procurement. Does this mean that public procurement does not apply to the state and to the Ways of Serbia and to local self-government, to businessmen and other citizens of the Republic of Serbia? These are all topics we didn't get an answer on.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3366	Bringing the end, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3367	As for this loan itself and making today's decision, it is the result of the ineffectiveness of your unreformed Serbia that you fought for when you came to power.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3368	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3369	We have a new custom. I'm sure I'll get an answer that's a fruit of coincidence, but I have the impression that it's not, that when it comes to finance, then there comes the Minister of Local Self-Government, as in the case of the Law on the Financing of Local Self-Government, instead of the finance minister, and today when the topic is essentially why this contract is being extended, it's not a financial story, but it's a story of works, we have a minister of finance who is neither guilty nor obliged to take chestnuts out of the fire left by Mrs. Zorana Mihajlovic, vice-president of the government. It would be very bad if it were to become a custom, so let's say, Minister Vulin came over to tell us about health care or not to go any further with that card mix. Please don't let that happen anymore. What's the topic? The theme is to extend the loan contract to two years because it is late for work on something called the wrong Corridor 11 and is a few months late. First, there is no Corridor 11. Corridors through Serbia's Corridor 7, this is the Danube and Corridor 10, which is famous. In the EU agenda, which defined these corridors, there is no Corridor 11. What was wrong with it being called an ibaric corridor, as was the name of the highway? That would be pleasant, Serbian and normal. Why is the importance of the contract extended to two years if everyone convinces us that the works are 98% over? Is it for that 2% missing piece of work, whether it's scratching asphalt, whether the chandeliers are in the tunnel, whether the Prime Minister is going to drive the truck, as he promised, through it or perhaps the Deputy Prime Minister is going to do it, I hope the finance minister doesn't do it. I don't know, but for that 2%, why two years? Well, he should've done it by now. Why does it build 40 kilometers for four years? Now they say, "Then the glides and the floods." Guys, this is the 21st century. The oak was intruding there, so the oak was cut down as the main culprit for stopping the works on that corridor. Everything can be predicted. When you get into some business, then you know which field is being processed, so you know where the rinks are, so you go around, so you know where there's something that's cultural, historical, or I don't know what kind of, so it can be bypassed even more in planning. The question of this unfortunate tunnel and the "Planum", it tells whether the "Planum" is good, whether new machines, old machines, whether it is lower, whether it is higher. What does "Planum" have to do with it? Who's the contractor? The contractor is a company from Azerbaijan. She's responsible for the work. How can a subcontractor be responsible for one big job? He's responding to the performer. Therefore, if something is wrong, it is the performer from far but friendly countries who should be dealt with in such a way. It means I get a few answers. First of all, you can ask the minister so she can answer by phone or text, so tell me later. Why is it being built so long? Why is he late for work? Why do we have a problem with that tunnel and what's the problem with that tunnel, because it's contradictory information all over the place? Why is the loan agreement being extended now if it was clear at the beginning of the year that there would be a problem with that? The Technical Government can sign contracts, not to deal with it, not to enter that part. Finally, my most important question, why is a new deadline given in 2018, if the Prime Minister is preparing to open the corridor before the end of this month? Does this mean that contractors and subcontractors will be left without getting money for their work for another two years, or does that mean something else, or does that money have to go to another side, or does that money have to be spent getting some black holes we don't see today? I ask these questions from my best intentions and I think the Serbian public has the right to receive the right answers to these questions. In the end, I wish you a nice stay in Nis. The bats always knew how to greet dear guests and others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3370	On what basis, Mr. Komlensky, do you want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3371	It's about Alexander Vulin in a persuasive sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3372	All right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3373	First, everything the famous picker of the government's subsidies to Serbia and Serbia's chief formulate "Sablje" is mentioned in a pejeorative sense. I am sure that Alexander Vulin could give a lecture to the gentleman in question from every area he cares about, only the question is whether he would ever understand it and understand as we will never understand how Serbia has happened to be in the position of Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3374	Slowly, first fellow Risticevic, injury to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3375	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 107. - the dignity of the National Assembly. My fellow farmer severely injured the dignity of the National Assembly, above all, because he welcomed someone in Nis, as if he were living in Nis. He lives on Vrakar in an apartment of 500,000 euros and the next time the government sits on Vrakar, he can welcome Vračar, and two governments can fit in his apartment. It can be, for example, a joint cabinet session with the town of Nisa, the Belgrade Forum, with all the regional states and, in the end, to conclude -- dignity has been injured, and I understand my colleague, as brief as possible, the long language always says.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3376	Comrade Risticevic, I think everyone has the right, as an MP, to welcome to any city in Serbia. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. You want a breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3377	An injury to the Rules of Procedure because I have no one to replicate, because it takes someone to be born to be a character and something more. Injuries to Rules of Procedure 103, on your part, because you're allowing the breach of the Rules of Procedure to be misused. I'm so glad I got another one next to one replicator. I'm glad the gentleman is still afraid of "Sabre". I asked him last time, when he was talking about "Sablja", why he was afraid of "Sablje", he said he was afraid of only one thing and I don't want to mention what he said to me, what he was afraid of. It was funny. Why are you afraid of that again? That's completely pointless. I can do it now, and I won't do it, to abuse the breach of the Rules of Procedure, so I can talk about where this Vulin fought against the NATO Pact, in which saunas that hotel in Belgrade when people were killed to defend the country.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3378	Mr. Zivkovic, here I accept that I was wrong about Article 103. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, because you have just begun to do what your colleague Risticevic did. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: I wanted to show what I did not want to do. I know. It's like from that cartoon, you can't do this, you can't do this, you can't do this. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: I don't watch cartoons. I guess you were also a kid some time. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3379	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Member of 103 and Article 104. So the farmer's colleague used the Rules of Procedure as a replica. Since he's already spoken, you can't take away his time, but he's taking away from us. I once again insist on the benefits of a work experience, a team that scares us with some "Sabre" all the time and it's not your fault that he hurt the dignity of the National Assembly, but those of us who voted to be prime minister. We voted to lead the state, and we didn't know it would get on our heads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3380	The word is by MP Marko Gavrilovic. Mr. Risticevic, everyone has the right to make mistakes in life.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3381	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, honored guests, when the Serbian Progressive Party won the trust of the people in 2012 and took power in the Republic of Serbia, what did it find? It has found poor roads, unsettled property-legal relations, poor infrastructure, but also low-building enterprises and road companies in very poor condition. All that couldn't have happened overnight. We know that when the Democratic Party came to power in 2000, what state-owned enterprises existed and they did something. Now, why couldn't these state-owned companies keep working, but some new private companies showed up? I'll explain now. When the old DS fins, one of us is here, he's the only one who's survived from all of them, they're thinking about how they're gonna take this power down, they're making a plan, they've also had financial help on the side, but they didn't have the guts to get into it. Since they didn't have the guts, they had to team up with certain criminogenic groups, and those groups would, with their help, destroy power, with their plans. Of course, they're on their way to that plan. In the end, what was in that plan? The assembly was on fire, TV was on fire, there were injuries, police stations were robbed, disarmed and chaos in the country. Of course...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3382	Please, buddy, talk about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3383	... For such services, something must be given.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3384	You had two minutes for introduction.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3385	The deal they made gave these criminals the right to open up companies, to wire money that they acquired illegally in these companies, by buying the machinery and then changing the Ibar Highway in two years, changing the highway, and who knows how many more projects they're doing? Of course, that asphalt wasn't ten centimeters, but five, the base wasn't half a foot, it was six inches. That's why there are no roads in Serbia. Since the common mare never pulls for both of us, there are some rats, some fools, and they start to twist their ears.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3386	A colleague, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3387	That's what happened. That's what people were called. The former prime minister mentioned them under those names. I didn't make it up. When the problem became even bigger between them, there was a conflict and their prime minister was killed. (Balša Bozovic, from town: Replica. ) In the follow-up and trail of events, which took place, the rest of the Democratic Party when it saw that the devil did not need to plant pumpkins, because they were both chugging on the head, then Operation Sabbea began where they arrested half of Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3388	Please return to the agenda theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3389	I want it real quick. To get to the point, I have to say this. They arrested half of Serbia. For those people who have been arrested today, we pay them compensation and compensation, and in fact they did not do it for the safety of the land for the sake of the people; they were not in proportion with these people, but they were for themselves. Come on, you were arrested, but they were tearing down buildings to cover up... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3390	My friend, I have to interrupt and ask you to return to the agenda. Ask for a word again.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3391	After that, Mr. Zivkovic disappears for ten years, but in order to survive for ten years he had to become a winemaker and take 500,000 euros free of charge. Then since he had to disappear, probably out of fear or out of blank accounts, so he disappeared for 10 years, but you can't live without money for 10 years, then he invented some subsidy, became a vineyard for nothing. He took 500,000 euros, the subsidy is being taken out, never one farmer in the region has received 500,000 grants, he is the only one, I think in Europe, and then a young generation of teens, Democrats, who realized that their teachers did not do well in the first phase, and then made tycoons or removed them from the previous regime. They were allowed to privatize state road companies, and then when they privatized, they also continued to pave the way for five centimetres of asphalt, five centimetres of ground. That's why we don't have roads in Serbia, we don't have asphalts, we don't have anything. Now, that's what we found in 2012. But at least some state-owned enterprises inherited it in 2000, but we didn't have to inherit any businesses, because they destroyed those companies. The "Uzice Roads" and "Nibens Group" were in debt up to their necks. Now it was you, and now I'm going to tell you how Alexander Wolfie did it. Alexander Vukic, when he fought to come to power, stood before 5,000 people on Brank's bridge and came first in front of the Assembly of the Republic. He didn't burn the congregation, he didn't destroy it, he protested peacefully with his people. Unlike you, Aleksandar Vucic has a vision, which is a vision of a new Serbia that has an infrastructure, which has highways, which has accesses, which has a network of highways connected to Europe. With this vision of the roads, it will ensure the development of the economy, the economy, the budgetary growth, providing investments so that foreigners who have capital will not come into the street that they are in the middle of, but want to come to a country that has highways and from which goods can quickly be transported further across Europe or to the east or west. But you didn't have that vision, gentlemen. Your vision was how to take the money and put it in your pockets. Now, the problem now is that you've held this people in the illusion for 12 years, but the people have recognized and seen who you are, and that's why they trusted you. He trusted Alexander Wolfie, not you. I'm glad there are some from the old guard, and these young teenagers, too, that they can answer this and explain to these people who have been watching this – what have they been doing for 12 years? What did they do in this country? How much did they owe us? Well, we had to chase cars downhill to stop them, so two years to push them back to where you pushed them. Now, that was your policy and that's DS. I don't know how you're not ashamed that you're defending anything you've ever done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3392	First, there goes the breach of the Rules of Procedure, then the replicas. A letter from Tatjana Macura. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3393	I have reported a breach of Rule 106(1) of the Rules of Procedure. The speaker can only talk about the point of the agenda on which the search is being conducted and remind the previous speaker that today's item of the agenda is the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Amendments and Supplements to the Loan Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as a borrower and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan, as a lender for financing, the construction of the Ljig-Boljkovci-Taovo and Takovo-Preljina section, the E763 highway in the Republic of Serbia. We should also remind him that today we are not doing any implementation of Mr. Zoran Zivkovic or Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic and that we do not need to listen to all day's praises, their property maps and achievements.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3394	What kind of performance now? This is the last thing I didn't understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3395	I can explain it to you, since he keeps mentioning Mr. Zivkovic's property map and also talks about the achievements of Alexander Vukic. I don't know how you didn't understand if everyone else understood, but you weren't there, so maybe you didn't send everyone away.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3396	I know. Let me answer, I have to go to the Rules of Procedure and answer. You know Gordana Comic said yesterday it was our obligation, I have to do what I'm going to do. So, I know what's on the agenda, I informed the vice president that this speech was inspired by previous speech, also on the subject of Zoran Zivkovic's agenda and that he let MP Zoran Zivkovic speak beyond the subject. That's too harsh for me, what's the topic in parliament. In the general debate he looks around-about, mostly about politics in this country, but the MP he has a grudge answered in the same way. So, why are you taking credit? I wouldn't get involved here. I think it's quite correct to listen to both sides. Whoever has the larger side of the argument will decide the citizens, I can't cut it. Like this, Miroslav Aleksic, the same injury to the Rules of Procedure, and then I will give you replicas, both to Zoran Zivkovic and Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3397	I thank the chairman. I'm advertising a violation of the Rules of Procedure of 107th violation of the dignity of the National Assembly because the previous speaker spoke here about some rats and what kind of things, which I don't think is the place in this house here. Also, your predecessor, Mr. Arsic warned me twice and interrupted me in his exposure to return to the topic. In doing so, I was not compensated for the time, and the gentleman who spoke Gavrilovic gave a lecture here for five minutes on the toll industry, on the bases, on the thickness of the asphalt, on the expertise of some before them, some who are now there. He didn't speak for a moment about the subject so that you could count his time again from zero. They went back from five to the beginning and then they actually got twice as much time. When I see today the strength of the arguments of the position in relation to the facts that we present, it is really clear to me that everything we hear is a big empty story, because on specific questions we get answers – and what someone did before. Don't answer that, there's no need to be nervous. Make an argument. Obviously, Mr. Gavrilovic is someone who is an expert in all areas, and when I see who today and how he defends Mr. Vukic, I understand why Serbia is so good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3398	That's already offensive. To ignore that cynicism, who's very professional and who's less professional. None of us are invited to speak. These are all MPs. I have to tell you for the thousandth time, this isn't a professional association. There can be 250 bakers here and be relevant to the points of the agenda. So you've missed absolutely your way of thinking, and don't insult any colleagues whether they're professional or not. Article 107 of dignity, so don't put it that way. Someone will tell you when there's a law on culture that you're not a ballerina. So that doesn't make sense. Absolutely. Please, conspiracy theories, we don't want to deal with anyone who keeps time, breaks up, and that really doesn't stand. I know you got a minute longer because Vice President Arsic interrupted you and added a minute longer, I was also informed. So don't mind when we break up, we're counting, there's no conspiracy theories. He spent group time, so he doesn't have two minutes, but almost 120 minutes because they won so many votes, the list Aleksandar Vukic – Serbia wins. I can't replace five and 120 at all. I just don't know how to do it and I don't want to. Are we talking about the subject, I say yesterday and today, just to see an MP no matter who he is, who strictly quotes the members of the law. We would today, if you wanted to talk to everyone, both the majority and the opposition, say whether to extend by two, or up to two years. That's what it says in what we have on the agenda today, and that's a change of schedule and it says up to two, someone says for two, and that's that. No one was talking about it, it was talking about it more widely. Someone about traffic, someone about finance, someone about how this situation happened. If you think that I, or in fact this time my previous, Mr. Arsic, who led that part of the session, think that he hurt the Rules of Procedure, it is certainly your right to seek and vote on it. Yeah. Thank you very much. First, Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3399	First of all, you're misinformed. I spoke about the matter, ask the minister what I said in five minutes, and no being, nor the Messenger of the people, any one, should have been found hurt by what I said. That's one thing. The second thing, you haven't heard, is that the MP here, let me use that word, has accused late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic of organising a coup with criminals in Serbia, taking over power... The emissaries are getting it. )......................................................................................................... You want to calm down or should I calm down? I think it's your job.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3400	Ambassador, don't threaten, please. I ask the messengers to accept my suggestion and let MP Zivkovic speak for himself, and you do not threaten.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3401	It's an accusation that is absolutely below the level of anything that could be called a living being, let alone beneath the level of an MP who accuses a man who gave his life so that this country would be a little bit more normal than it was before him for criminal ties. All those criminals were close strangers in which you were then playing chess with the party's leaders, sharing what they shared, and that's your problem. Here, Zoran Djindjic is offended, for whom both the history of this country and the citizens of this country and the authorities absolutely cannot blame him for anything that has anything to do with any kind of crime. With no intention of comparing myself with him, the same goes for me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3402	Thank you. The emissaries are getting it. Ambassador, please don't throw it away. Listen to each other. I have to give the replica to Balsha Bozovic and you will answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3403	I would like to thank the President of the Assembly. The emissaries are getting it. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3404	Please. Here you go. I'm going to add these 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3405	What hit me, it's not just accusations that we've been hearing for the fourth year at the DS account. That's all lies. What struck me is that the MP who made the confusion in this parliament by defending certain members of the "earth clan", the rat, the fool, the fraud, Dusan Spasojevic, and many others against the police action "Sabela" which were the inspirers, organisers and logistics in preparing and organising the assassination of Zoran Djindjic. I think you agree with me in the conclusion that it is not worthy of this House. It is about the Serbian prime minister who gave his life that the country has institutions, that it has a built rule of law. Who will afterwards believe that you have an honest intention to raise this Zoran Djindjic monument as a occupancy to support this system of values that he stood up for? That's what Serbian citizens know, and that's why DS is very concerned about the simple reason why you'll never understand what system of values he's advocated, which is why he gave his life, what his work is and what Serbia he dreamed of. You have also shown your true face today by defending members of the Zemun clan and not by being prosecuted in the "Sabbe" police action, which I think is unremembered insolentness and rudeness from the rank of MPs who have spoken for a little while.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3406	Thank you, MP. The word has Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3407	Dear President, a member of 107 who speaks of the dignity of the National Assembly has been injured. Mr. Zoran Zivkovic, told a lie about Mr. Gavrilovic's exposure, my colleague from the SNS parliamentary group, because when he spoke about the prime minister, he did not mean Zoran Djindjic, but Zoran Zivkovic. Because Zoran Zivkovic, and we were showing photos here, was a great friend of the Milorad Ulemek Legion. He and the Legion danced at a concert in The Tower where the Red Berets were housed along with then Interior Minister Dusan Mihajlovic. And it's all true what Mr. Gavrilovic said. The problems in the travel economy began in 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, when Miskovic and Milo Djuraskovic privatised PZP Užice, PZP Belgrade, Nis, Kragujevac, 2005 was created "Nibens Group", funded by Miroslav Miskovic. It was Central Serbia, and in Vojvodina it is the exclusive right to asphalt through the Capital Investment Fund, which you, Mrs Gojkovic, know as well as I, got Dusan Borovica. This was the case in 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005 until 2012 in Serbia, i.e. until 2016 in Vojvodina, and then we wonder why no roads were made. Where are our highways? Where are the corridors? You ate gentlemen, you stole...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3408	Ambassador, I understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3409	That's the answer to what Mr. Zivkovic was saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3410	Thank you. You didn't come forward if you wanted my explanation? No, I don't. ) (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. You're entitled to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3411	I don't want to. I have no one to replicate with. That's what you need to be a man for. Yeah, that's why you need to be human and not lie and not insult people who don't deserve it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3412	Just tell me a member of the Rules of Procedure. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: You let the break-in of the worst things get into this building. Regardless of your presence, this is today the temple of the Democrats in Serbia. You're making a public toilet out of that temple with your behavior. You bastard. How can you not be ashamed? Thank you. I give you a reminder of these words you said. I thank you on behalf of all MPs of the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you very much for these words. I'm the one who let you say "injury to the Rules of Procedure." I also offered a replica. You didn't want to, but I don't think I've really earned either Parliament or this convocation of these words we've just heard. According to article 112, I'm setting a five-minute break. Whoever wants to get out, just take it easy. We'll continue exclusively on the agenda. I don't allow you to continue... (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: Go and calm down. All right. I want a messenger. It'll be all right. Five minutes break so we can all calm down and keep working. We will not continue on the lines, nor on the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, but on the agenda. That's why we're taking a break. [[After a break.]] It is now the People's MP Milan Lepcevic's turn.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3414	Finally, after more than an hour of various tirads and lectures from past times that have nothing to do with the agenda, than fighting who will make bigger and nicer praises to tell about the great leader, let's get back to the topic. So, the proposed ratification, i.e. the extension of the deadline taken from Azerbaijan 300m euros for the end of the highway to two years or so, is something that is the fact that we want to, we need to, and we need to adopt, so that these works don't end as soon as possible and that we finally get that highway. It is not disputed that every country that wants to develop its infrastructure, and unfortunately our infrastructure is in a catastrophic situation, it is very difficult to compare what it was like five or ten years ago, and what it is today, is likely that there are no spectacular differences, except that in the last ten years we have taken huge loans to build a missing infrastructure, and above all, autopses and end up corridor 10 from the border with Hungary to the border with Macedonia and Bulgaria, as well as to end the highway to Požega, i.e. to complete the Ibar highway, or as some call it wrongly – Corridor 11. In total, about 1.6 billion euros have been in debt for all these infrastructure projects to build highways. When interest is added which is very colorful and depends on what time they are taken, so they range from about 2% to fantastic 8% taken during the period of the biggest economic crisis, without any justification, with such high interest, the sum of 1.6 billion is likely to be upgraded to over 2 billion euros taken to build road infrastructure, primarily highways. Each country uses every possible way, and especially developing countries use every possible means to raise the quality of life primarily through the launch of certain infrastructure projects, but to raise standards and employ as many of its companies as possible, its population, to keep these investments as much money as possible in its own country, to increase revenues in the budget and make double use of these loans. So, on the one hand, to complete the infrastructure, and on the other hand to employ the workforce, to employ the companies and to practically develop the country. What happened to the loans taken by the Serbian state? In a review that has made of twenty different shares built in Serbia, it starts from the border with Hungary to the border with Macedonia and Bulgaria, they so-called. Lots or shares, in only five cases, we have to work, that the main performers and that in the tender they got our companies, Serbian firms. The rest of them got mostly foreign companies. These are "Terne", these are "Azvi", "Adval", "Trace", "Terna", "Aktor", mentioned an Austrian firm that went bankrupt, and has remained in debt to many producers, our companies. So, we first took huge money as loans, we pay them fat interest, and then we give the foreigners that they build the highway, that they are the main contractors, and that our companies serve as a simple labour force, which often remains unpaid, that is, those main contractors don't pay off their jobs to the end, and that companies are forced to go bankrupt because they have to pay VAT, they're late with payments, and everything that they would possibly earn as subcontractors, practically their banks eat because they take credit to finance construction. No normal country works by taking loans, borrowing, paying high interest, and not investing money from credit in its own development, by hiring domestic businesses, by earning money, by getting domestic companies in Serbia to acquire anything needed to build highways, by hiring domestic labour, by spending that money in Serbia, rather than making extra, or profit abroad. It is something that is simply inadmissible and it is primarily a question of what state policy is and what policy is run by the ministry and the government when infrastructure projects like this are at stake. The other problem here stands on construction deadlines per share. Except for this highway and these shares that we're now ratifying a loan, which was only a few months late, it's under the assumption that only a few months, all the other shares are in a huge delay of two to even four years. For almost all the shares towards the south Grabovnica, Grill, Throat tunnel, one, two, three, Manojle tunnel, Vladic's Han, Prevalac, Prevalac - Suvi Dol, etc. and all the shares on the highway to Bulgaria, for all of them, the deadlines either expired last year or expired this year or expire by the end of this year. Practically, almost all shares have been broken down by deadlines where there are no sightings when the work will be completed and that the deadlines will be likely to be from two to even four years. What is the biggest problem is that despite being late for the completion of the work, in many cases there are damage claims, multimillionaires, where all is nominated by the company Corridor 10 led by these works, and with the assistance of the consulting house "Ežis", led by the famous professor Branislav Ivkovic. In some cases, like that, let's say...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3415	Thank you. I've extended 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3416	I'll just finish my sentence, if that's all right. So, the most drastic example is the share of Mom's stone, where the contractor is already exceeding the agreed price by more than 90%...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3417	Thank you, please. I just overstepped. The word is made by MP Dragan Vesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3418	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues, the whole discussion on this agenda has begun as one of the members of the ruling coalition, and in the Trade Minister's party began to talk here about us as friendly Azerbaijan. Indeed, I will agree with him that the Republic of Azerbaijan, making this contract with the state of Serbia, has made a fantastic contract for her. Samuel Beckett in "Waiting for Godo" asks the question – where are we in all of this? I am simply surprised that no one has ever said that a 300m-euro loan at a 15-year pay-off with an annual interest of 4% is the obligation of our additional 100m-euro interest. Now, as good as that is for taxpayers and the country of Serbia, we'll figure it out ourselves. I am fully aware of the position of the SNS, which did not participate in such a devastating contract under the Republic of Serbia, but as a government that tries to be responsible, it was born and it should be rocked. But those 100m euros, which we will pay from interest to the Republic of Azerbaijan, is not the only obligation that the state of Serbia will have to give. I took the contract that was signed then in 2012 and read that contract and found very interesting data in it. For example, the government of Azerbaijan will never give this money to the Republic of Serbia as a whole, but has reserved the right to direct payment of certain loans to the contractor. The common known fact is that the contractor of the work is an Azerbaijani firm of 51% and that is "Azvirt", and 49% are Serbian subcontractors and then puts the contract in an absolutely subordinate position of the Serbian corridor, because the government of Azerbaijan has reserved for itself the right to retain any loan part unless it is satisfied with the financial documents on the basis of which it pays off. So if they don't like the bill that their subcontractors pay, deliver, she doesn't have to pay. But what does it all look like in the field? The fact is that the Azerbaijani contractor took on a technologically easier and financially more profitable piece of work, so that the lower machine times the earth's work is done by Serbian subcontractors, and the upper machine times the tampon and asphalt is done by Azerbaijan. Well, then, Azerbaijan brings oil from Azerbaijan, which makes bitumen, and at the same time, the second necessary element for getting asphalted stone aggregate provided by the lease of Topola separation, so that stone aggregate, if it's true, I ask Mr. Minister to answer me whether this information I've obtained is correct or not. So, the stone aggregate is at a price of 35 euros per cubic metre of stone aggregate, and this stone aggregate can be obtained at 21 euros per cubic meter, I am correct. Now, what's the profit on the amount of a twisted stone aggregate, we can just count. However, one other thing is very interesting. Under the contract, the agreement has a clause that says that no transaction by Azerbaijan will be paid by VAT or any other fiscal giving provided for by the laws of the Republic of Serbia. This is point 10.1.18. In particular, the lender, the Government of Azerbaijan explicitly agreed by agreement that the loan funds would not be used to pay VAT for the sale of goods and services and imports of goods and services, the costs of customs and other taxes and other charges incurred in connection with the execution or application of the project by the contractor or subcontractor, that is point 2.1.4. So, the contractor provided himself with a fantasticly good contract, and the state of Serbia, as I see it, will have to pay many other taxes. Then it becomes a completely vague story to me, and it's kind of clear to me, when Prime Minister Aleksandar Vucic says that in the first period since the opening of a piece of the highway, which will be about ten or fifteen days from now, we will be able to use that highway without paying the toll. All I'm saying is that we've paid that toll through these duties that come to the financial republic of Azerbaijan. We could be driving for a long time if the contract wasn't made the way it was made. Now, just one more thing that's mentioned in point 10.1.27. The agreement says the borrower guarantees to be a member with a good reputation for the IMF, the World Bank and the International Financial Corporation, international associations for development and so on. So, a similar story we told when Mrs. Minister for Local Self-Government was respected. Everything we do is terribly important to do for the IMF. I'm just asking a question - why? I repeat, as a responsible political option, the SNS that took over the execution of the contract, which it did not make, doesn't say anything about the bad things of this contract, or, I want to believe that it wasn't true, perhaps the same or similar lender predicted that we so much for the trip from Nis through Pristina to Drac and further towards Tirana, and forgetting that part of Serbia where the Moravski Corridor was talked about, which is why my city of Kralje was affected if it wasn't that time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3419	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3420	Let me say that since the first speaker to speak specific figures from this project is, then it is very important to be precise. So, first, the contract says -- at least 49% will be agreed with Serbia's subcontractors. According to data we have from Corridor Serbia, in July, 70% of the works were received by performers from Serbia. Is everything paid? We do not have this in short, but that 70% of Serbia's subcontractors have agreed, we have this as information. We can give it to you. We think it's a good idea to have a brief, precise report on the implementation of all the projects, and we're going to forward that. That's what I think it would be good for us to have on committees. It doesn't have to be in the Parliament's tribe, but that you have all that information. Two, four-percent interest, we're talking here and this Russian railroad loan and all kinds of other loans. At that time 4% were interest rates comparable to interest rates on the market. Fifteen years of deadline was also comparable at the time. So, if we were to count that so-called. Some grant element would be roughly comparable to the loans we could get back then. The third comment, how much interest is in all of this, it's a standard formula, we've already started to return, someone's noticed here since November 2015, and we're returning to the standard formula six months at four percent a year, that's practically 24 periods. There's no secret. That's what we pay in all the loans. If you calculate the current value of that is 0, if you calculate nominally there's going to be interest some amount, but that's not something we don't pay in other loans. Someone here said that our interest ranged from 2% to over 8%. So we have loans that are cheaper than that and loans that are much more expensive than that. Therefore, there is no special moment that would cause our attention, suspicion, or anything else. What's important is that most of the materials are supplied in Serbia, with that gravel, I think it's better to give our suppliers a better price than the ones that are lowest in Serbia, because they probably expect them to deliver it to the construction site in the right way, at the right time so they can make a mixture that is necessary, etc. So it's not against us, which is 35 euros, it remains for Serbia's performers. What is very important is that you know in all project loans everywhere in the world, including in our country, all international organisations, and thus also such bilateral loans that go into the category so-called "Bilateral Loans". Export loans, because they finance a de facto company from their country that performs infrastructure works, are usually not paid VAT. It is not paid and when paid then the domestic component is added precisely to VAT or more than that for the budget it is neutral, so we would add 20% to the budget for VAT and we would pay ourselves only to increase the revenue and expenditure side of the budget. Therefore, since VAT on import project loans is usually fiscally neutral then the agreement is that we do not burden the side of borrowing, so as not to burden both the side of income and the side of expenditure in the budget, that VAT is not paid, and that is standard. So here this project is no different from standard practice in the world. Finally, as for several discussions so far, I would ask you to try at least during this debate to be an economist in your soul. The economist in his soul says what's the alternative. So, we have 238 million spent, we're late, we can form a group that's going to investigate why it's late, but it doesn't change the nature of our decision, at this point we can extend or not extend. If we extend, we know exactly we have a longer deadline, it doesn't burden us, but 0.5% we'll pay for the assets before we start paying 4% for the funds used. That, if we end it all in November, God forbid, then, since we're up to 24 months longer here, it'll only cost us for these two months 0.5%, if we use it by May 2018 it'll cost us 0.5% for this year and a half or two years, and then it'll cost us 4% if we use those funds. So it's nothing against us, it's the flexibility that someone suggested because there are risks, because there are elements that we can't predict. It turns out that our builders don't know enough to probe the terrain and come across surprises, that the land isn't the type they thought it was, and then when they bury the tunnel, they realize what they came across. It would be good if we tried something here to do as other companies around the world, laserly doing deep ground checks, so we don't have such surprises, but it costs, it raises the cost of preparing the project, and people are running away from it. We have to learn that, as they run away from insurance in agriculture, and then we're dealing with the consequences, so here and here, we're saving for project preparation, and then we run into some ice-skating area, some terrain that's not like the tunnels and this and this and the second and the third surprise. So that's what we're learning. I suggest we try to include it in our standard procedure. My proposal will be to change the budget once and put aside money in a budget that will fund better, more expensive, but more reliable project preparation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3421	Marko Parezenović, get ready for Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3422	I thank the esteemed president. I want first of all to thank the Minister for giving, I can say, very precise and professional answers. Although I didn't plan it from the first I have to comment for a moment on the presentation of my predecessor from this, as I would say, under the so-called Orthodox Patriot Party, which is very much in favour of the Euro-Asian Union, and is very troubled by Azerbaijan. It is not clear to them why it is going so slowly and why there are no highways in Western Serbia already. The answer is very simple and they can look for it when they look to the left. That's where the MPs of the uninformed party sit. It was the party that was in power when all the privatisations were held in Serbia, of course, it wasn't alone, there were other DOS parties. That's when we sold almost everything that was worth it. According to some information, between seven and eight billion euros entered the country at that time. That's about 1,000 kilometers of highway. If that money had been used in infrastructure projects today would have been highways for western Serbia, but the money ended up in who knows whose pockets it ended up for an unreal increase in wages and pensions, for the duplication of the public sector, all for the purpose of your staying in power. That is why neither in western Serbia nor in many other parts of Serbia has highways, and therefore the Serbian government is forced to seek money for infrastructure projects through various favourable loans, to try to achieve some concession because there is no other way because we have found a huge hole in the budget, a deficit of nearly two billion euros in 2012 and a doubled public debt. That is why I believe that this collaboration of the Republic of Serbia with the Republic of Azerbaijan is very good, but it is not good when there is, of course, a delay in the works, but it is better to talk about these delays today than to talk about why nothing is done at all, as it was in some period. I would also like to talk in the future in this place about some other corridors because it will be a sure sign that Serbia is building and developing, even if there are some problems and mistakes. Mistakes always happen, especially on such heavy shares as the Ljig-Pray. We saw almost in Croatia when a bridge was built that the bridge was two metres lower than the necessary height, and here we are talking about some errors that are measured by centimeters. It's been proven in the media that it was a lie that trucks could only get through the middle of the tunnel and we could see that in both pictures and on the scene and through video material shown in the media. I don't see what's so controversial about the Minister's public speaking of these problems. The public needs to know that. If there were failures in the work of surveillance, if there were failures in the work of the performer, you miss should be corrected. I believe that in the future very different and different republican institutions performers will approach this job because they will always know that certain mistakes made will not go unpunished. A colleague from Užica commented on the length of the construction in the sense that this stock has been built for four years, so at that rate it takes 16 years to build a highway. The truth is done, done on other shares, in 30.11.2014 Ub-Lajkovac's share was completed. Shares of Obrenovac-Ub, Lijkovac-Ljig are currently being worked, are scheduled to be completed around July 2017, so we can practically expect that citizens will be able to use the entire section from Preljin to Obrenovac for about a year. It is already known that when it comes to the final share from Obrenovac to Belgrade, the government of the Republic of Serbia signed an agreement with the Republic of China on the financing and construction of the stake. I also hope that the Serbian government will find funding models and other shares as soon as possible, first of all, Preljina-Požega, as well as the Moravski Corridor, which is now one of the priorities for this part of Serbia. Today, the government of the Republic of Serbia is criticised for being late for the completion of the work, and that's good. Because some previous governments have criticised themselves for doing nothing at all. I'm sure we'll all agree in one, in some time distance, ten, twenty, fifty years, no one will remember whether a share on this corridor is open on August 25 or 31. October and whether there were bigger or smaller problems during the construction, but I am sure everyone will remember that this corridor as well as many other corridors was built during the SNS and Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic's rule.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3423	Thank you. (Dragan Vesovic, from town: Replica. What do you say?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3424	Thank you, Madam Chairman. My dear colleague, in this home that I greatly appreciate and respect, I didn't say anything ugly to anyone, and I heard from you that I was also a member of a pseudo patriotic party, and the other night that I was a member of a cult. (Alexander Martinovic, from the scene: Who said that? ) Mr. Martinovic, you said we were members of the sect, and Mr. Parezovic just said that I am a member of the pseudo patriotic party. Confucius said, colleague Parezanovic, that if I meet a man who is not worth speaking to, and I speak I have lost my words. I don't want to lose words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3425	He didn't mention you. (Milan Lapčević, from the city: He mentioned the party. Don't. He said the previous speaker, and he really insulted him, and that's why I gave my word. So, what do you say? Milan Lapčević throws. All right, not notified, let it go. No, let it go now. Don't, everybody says that when they want to say something, this one's uninformed. Don't. Well, you can't do this and this. He can't now. I really don't respond to violence, not really. Stop violence I signed the other day when we had guests and verbal violence was violence. You gave up, and thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3426	Article 104(1) Should I quote or not? I don't think you should, but I think you know what this is about. So, if someone in his address expressed himself in a diabolical way about the other party, the right to the replica has a president or deputy president of the parliamentary group. I think in that sense you should have him first...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3427	What does it say in Section 3?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3428	You read it, I gave my foundation.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3429	I don't want to read it. I've decided there's no basis for replication. Article 104(3) - I decided there was no basis for replication. (Milan Lapcevic, from the place: Yes, but you should be the same to everyone. Now I'd like the Davers better. The word has the People's MP Radoslav Milojic, and the People's MP Aleksandar Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3430	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, I hope this is not a deliberate, respected minister, but last week you were supposed to be in the debate with the MPs, so we got the Minister of Local Self-Government. Today we were supposed to get Minister Zorana Mihajlovic in the debate, so you showed up. I hope this isn't intentional and that this case won't happen again. The contract for the construction of Corridor 11 was signed on 2 February 2012 and the contract is good. We need to say here that it was the government that was run by the DS, and that's good. What's also good is that, on the one hand, you respect that contract and you want to make that contract happen, but there's something that's wrong. Now unfortunately, we're going to have to move on to that. It is bad that the end of the contract was planned for the end of 2015, so you moved the completion of these works at the end of 2016. Either way, you broke deadlines. To break deadlines, our citizens, not you, are paying extra funding, i.e. Penalties. What's also bad is that two tunnels at the League are down by 30 centimeters. It is bad that the damage that has been done is four million euros, and that is dear friends from the SNS without drainage and without removing the pipe. With these two things, the damage will be nearly 5m euros. It is bad that Minister Zorana Mihajlovic, on the one hand, or deceives the public, disabling the media, disabling the public and telling us about some damage of four million euros. If it's true that this damage exists, it's a 2016 scandal that's happening to us. If that's not true, then it's an even bigger scandal, Mr. Martinovic, and I ask you not to interrupt me, because that's probably why you want to drive the subcontractors away, and you don't have a way to do it, you already want to disabling the public. It's bad that you ruined everything you touched from 2012 to 2016. It's bad that you've ruined, not only Corridor 11, but you've ruined Corridor 10. How? Corridor 10 of the Red River is officially opened with champagne, as is the case with you from SNS at the end of 2015. The stake, unfortunately, will have to be re-worked for Serbian citizens and for the Serbian government's budget. There's no final layer all along. The base layer is uneven. The stop tape is closed because the plums are not made and the holes are open on the bridge, dear friends. The whole bridge is in the holes because the asphalt didn't bind to metal panels that you didn't remove. These are serious infrastructure mistakes. From 2008 to 2012, for the sake of Serbian citizens' interest, 40km of infrastructure roads were done more than from 2012 to 2016. It's bad that we left you 15 billion euros in debt, and now that debt is 25 billion. It's bad that you cut your salary. It's bad that you cut pensions. It is bad that you kidnapped five billion dinars to Serbian citizens last week, but what's good is that after May of next year you won't be able to kidnap and rob Serbian citizens, because you will go into political history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3431	The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3432	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I fully understand why Mr. Milojic was interested in road construction because, as president of the municipality, for the first five months of the Smederjevska Palanka budget, he spent three million and 200 thousand dinars pouring gasoline into his private car and moved with that amount of fuel about 32,000 kilometers. Mr. Milojic does not know that international contracts do not end parties, but international contracts are concluded by governments and in every civilised state, in every well-organised rule of law, the government respects the contracts concluded by some previous government. As for road construction and road construction problems, I called you yesterday, so here you were yelling at me, cursing me, calling me an idiot, quoting some of the headlines from a list that you've been calling all day about that tunnels, that these two tunnels aren't good. That's the same list he said, the headlines said "Vučić is a villain", "Vučić is a dictator", "Vučića should have been killed", "Fahri's son", "Citula for a living man", etc. Yesterday you said you were the one who ripped that paper, burned it, that you'd never read that newspaper in your life. Today, this newspaper is your main source of information that two tunnels are not good. Wait, are these papers true, do they transmit accurate information or not? So this is about the SNS...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3433	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3434	I'm done. ... The ministry run by Mrs Zorana Mihajlovic and the entire government of the Republic of Serbia is imputing something written in a daily list. That's just not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3435	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3436	First, as a serious and state-run party, we are not calling for tabloids, unlike you from the SNS, but for Minister Zorana Mihajlovic's statement, which she said. She said that the old machines were wrong, that the new machines would be gone. You can tell that to my daughter who's four years old, I don't think she'd believe you. Mr. Martinovicu, as you and your party manage this country, the best known refrigerators and bills of Serbian citizens are. I have to give you one piece of information that "Electroprivreda" Serbia in June of this year, sent a million wrong accounts and damaged 17 million dinars, both Serbian citizens and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. If you can answer one question for me. Who has been paved in Serbia for the last four years? Who is the master of life and death in Serbia? Who beats political opponents in Serbia? Who beat Milan Gavrilovic in Mionica? Who kidnapped Danil Bobic in Verbas? Zvonko Vesenović, your political tycoon, whom no one here can mention their name.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3437	No, no, don't, so what's this? You said no one could. You said it in the microphone, I didn't interrupt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3438	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think Mr. Milojcic should be given a medal for courage, because a man has had the courage to say the name, allegedly the largest tycoon financed by the SNS, and who allegedly paves all over Serbia. He did say it a little with a voice that's a little shivering, but it doesn't matter. He needs a medal for courage. You, Mr. Milojicic, cannot answer one fundamental question. From what newspaper did you read that "Electroprivreda Srbija" did what she did? You are informing yourself of the tunnels from "Kurira". We've already established that. Now, I don't understand which newspaper you're informing yourself about what the "E Powercraft of Serbia" is doing? Yesterday, you were talking about reality programs, tabloids, how wrong REM, how wrong the media picture, today's main sources of information are newspapers that your coalition partners say they haven't read in your life. This one, said now by Maja Gojkovic that he was a scumbag and that he was a VC parliament, claimed that the same newspaper burned in a barrel, that the newspaper was no good. Today, this paper is your main source of information. By the way, Mr. Milojic, when you get that medal for courage, why don't you tell me how it's possible for you to cross 32,000 miles in five months and pay you the Smederevska Palanka budget, 3,200,000 dinars? You'll get another medal if you answer this question.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3439	Take it easy. To see which order, I have injuries to the Rules of Procedure, I have a minister. Ministers always have the advantage. So, first the minister, then the breach of the Rules of Procedure, because they say whenever the minister and the representative of the mandated promoter come forward, then the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3440	Let me explain one fact that is very important. For the third time, some MPs have mentioned the level of public debt and mentioned the guilt of the public debt, without details of what happened. The situation is very simple. There's data on the site every day, every month, every year. So it's true it's so-called. the total public debt increased by 9.4 billion from 2012 to yesterday. It is very important for the public to know why it has been increased and how it has been increased. So, so-called. The general government deficit in 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015 was 2.2, 1.8, 2.2 and 1.2 billion in 2015. It's all in total 8.2 billion, the remaining 1.2 billion are loan projects, the part that is included in these amounts. And what's not included are so-called. loans granted directly to the economy, the takeover of the "Srbigas" loan of 540 million, 500 million interventions for banks that went bankrupt, and over that 150 million that the state gave i.e. The Ministry of Finance has been tasked with establishing a basic fund of the Deposit Insurance Agency which, in the future, will have to fund itself from the collection of certain commercial banks. Therefore, from this great story that someone was in debt without a foundation, first and foremost in 2012 and 2013, the continuation of the deficits that we have just now reversed produced an effect that could not be avoided. Secondly, an integral part of this is agreed project loans that today amount to over three billion and 400 million contracted, rather than withdrawn funds, which will represent a debt in the future. Thirdly, what is most important, we started to reduce it, meaning independent of all the unfavourable exchange rate movements and others, the total public debt is reduced from 24.81 billion euros to 24.15 billion euros. By over 650m euros this year and will continue to decrease and we expect it to drop convincingly below 70% already next year, and that by the end of this decade we will be at 60%, that is the level that the "mastrict" sees as a good level. Thank you. Nice.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3441	Here's a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3442	President-in-Office, I think the injured Rules of Procedure, because one of the speakers instead of explaining how he paid his bar bills, how he was driving around Serbia with money from his municipality, tried to distract the topic and manage to mention people who are not the subject of this debate. He also mentioned the Vrbas municipality, not explaining how the DS left the budget there, that it spent a billion and 500 million, that only 500 were accidentally spent in 2013, how it destroyed public enterprises and that a whole block of hospitals had disappeared. Since we have billboards, that in 2012, the second block of the regional hospital was completed, and besides the coming Mr. President of the then province government, he buried one ace, put it in a truck that entered the other side of the gate, unloaded that same shaft, and there's nothing today from that hospital. Citizens simply wonder where the money has disappeared, which has been transformed and given into subsidies to the Vrbas municipality, and does not exist, there is no explanation today. Not to mention "Hetherland," not to mention all that money that went missing and where DS successfully put it in party pockets, and now trying to mention people who aren't here, who can't defend themselves, where he simply doesn't want to say how he spent money in his municipality. Thank you. I don't want the Assembly to declare this injury.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3443	Thank you. The word is Bojan Bag, the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3444	Dear Chairman, I'm advertising a violation of Article 107(1). Since Mr. Milojic, when he mentioned Danil Bobic, allegedly beaten in Vrbas, forgot to say that this man allegedly beaten by SNS activists, came out of the DS a year later and entered the SNS coalition in Temerino. That's how much he got beat up, that's how much he was bullied. You will not say that Danilo Bobic told the public that his forged signature was on the competitive documentation of the ecological youth alternative from Temerin at the Department for Labour and Employment contest, where from Mr Vasin's falsified job he was the legal representative of the NGO. The organisation received 600,000 dinars, Danilo Bobic said in public, no competitive documentation was signed, never submitted, and several days later the organisation was reregistered to another member of the municipal board of DS from Temerin, Sladjana Markovic, tell the whole truth. As you are not going to say, Danilo Bobic told the public that a forged signature on the competitive documentation of the Eco-Youth Alternative from Temerin, at the contest of the Labour and Employment Secretariat, where he had never signed from Mr Vasin, a forged signature, he was the legal representative of the NGO, the organisation received 600,000 dinars, Danilo Bobic, which he said in public, no competitive documentation was signed, never submitted, and several days later the organisation was reregistered to another member of the municipal board of the Democratic Party in Temerina, Sladjana Markovic. Tell the whole truth, when you mention it. Go ahead. Apparently, he was beaten by the SNS, with whom he later entered the coalition, and you who defended him and who politically used him in the campaign, and who you received him, came out of your party publicly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3445	The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3446	Article 103(7) – The President of the National Assembly shall be obliged to abuse the rights provided for by this Article to a national MP who does not comply with the provisions laid down in Article 1, 2, 4 and 6 of this Article or in some other obvious way to abuse the rights provided for in this Article, shall impose the measures provided for in Articles 108 to 111 of this Rules of Procedure. So, the two MPs who advertised the Rules of Procedure didn't, in accordance with this article, and I think they were talking about something that was proof of the abuse of advertising, which we most often see in the Assembly. With so much passion to speak of a man who has been beaten, a member of the Democratic Party, what he later decided, that is his question and his right, but is not the only one in Serbia who has been harassed in the local elections held in Serbia, with the pressures our members have faced. Both in Mionica, and in Bojnik, the former president of the municipality was detained for 102 thousand divided social aids, as if it were the biggest criminal act, was the president of the municipality and a member of the DS, to join the SNS after leaving custody. With what motives – I don't know, but these are people who have received great pressure, obviously, and that's how you expanded your opportunities at the local level. The most important thing in all this is what the minister said and it seems to have hurt you the most, and that was the point. The minister said and confirmed what we were saying – 10 billion increased public debt from 2012 to today. He explained the more precise structure and thank you, Minister, for that and for that confirmation and accurate data on it. That's what hurt... (Radoslav Milojičić, from place: Replica. [[Disabled microphone.]] )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3447	No more. These were all abuses of the Rules of Procedure, all of them. Here, Ciric spoke within the framework of the Rules of Procedure's injury to the minister a little bit. Don't yell. I'm so not interested in who's gonna yell at me, you have no idea. That doesn't accomplish anything. Let me run the session. The president's in charge of the session, I guess that's clear. I'm trying. Nobody gives it to me. But I'll try again. It's not a problem. But the injuries of the Rules of Procedure are all... (Radoslav Milojičić, from the place: I was mentioned five times. He can't. I'll set a break. He can't, because you all abuse the Rules of Procedure. The breach of the Rules of Procedure was neither with MP Ciric nor in the previous two discussions. You get into replicas, you just pick up my Rules of Procedure, harass me and other colleagues, make up an injury, talk about how I hurt the Rules of Procedure, and I'm smaller than a bug today. I'm silent, and I just don't listen to anyone stick to the Rules of Procedure. From this second on, I'm sharing my sentence. So Alexander Markovic has a word, and then Nenad Christmas. I'm not interested in anything anymore. I'm just interested in the agenda. That's how it's going to be, and that's why the president serves. Choose another.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3448	Thank you. The President-in-Office, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and this bile that feels in this debate speaks in favour of how important this bill is today, the draft law on the loan agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Azerbaijan to finance the construction of the Ljig-Boykovci-Bojkovci-Tavo-Tavo-Tavo-Tavo-Preljina Motorway E-763. I don't think I have to particularly point out that I note the importance of both the loan itself and this infrastructure project that I firmly believe will contribute to the overall development of road and traffic infrastructure, as well as the overall development of Serbia's economy and economic activities in Serbia. We have heard a lot of arguments, in fact, we have heard everything we have heard in the debate so far, both from the minister and from the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, as well as the reasons and circumstances that preceded this proposal today, as we have heard and how this loan will be implemented, how the project will be implemented, as well as all other relevant facts. What I would further like to point out is that the government of the Republic of Serbia continues to run a proactive and well-designed foreign policy. He continues to run a policy of good relations and to build new friendships in the world. This policy contributes to better positioning of the Republic of Serbia, both regional and European, and also on a broader international agenda, and this is of great importance. It is very important that we make new friendships, maintain good relations with old, traditional friends, and create new friendships in the world. In this way, we deepen economic co-operation with current friendly countries, but we also make new friendships and attract new investments, direct foreign investments. That's very important. Despite the fact that there are some who are contesting or trying, which they did during and during the government, in every way possible to force investors, which, by their thieving, forced investors from Serbia by their corruption, everything they did to avoid investment in Serbia. And today they're trying to drive investors away, so they call workers in Serbia slaves. Isn't that right, Milojich? Are workers called slaves? A thousand and a half employees in one company in one municipality call them slaves, how are you not ashamed? You call investors slave owners. What's the message? Should we drive them away? Is that the DS program to drive investors away? Just tell the citizens, no problem. Azerbaijan is primarily a friendly country and we heard it today in the debate and we heard arguments in that sense. Azerbaijan is a country with which we have very developed co-operation, and if you'll allow me to read some of the data that goes along with it. In the period from January to August 2016, the total foreign trade in goods between Serbia and Azerbaijan amounted to $7.8m. So, 61.3 more than in the same period in 2015 and there was a surplus with Serbia worth 3.6 million US dollars and that is an increase of 87% compared to the period January of the previous year. Are these not indicators that support that? Total exports for the first eight months of 2016 amounted to $5.7m, with a 68% increase in exports compared to the same period in 2015. This suggests that we have very developed co-operation with Azerbaijan despite the fact that today, some have tried irresponsiblely to challenge Azerbaijan as a serious country. You know, I had a chance to stay in Baku recently, and on the spot, I became convinced of this accelerated economic development that this country really has. Unfortunately, I spent a little time there so I didn't get enough information, as I don't think the credit for their accelerated economic development is just that they have wealth in raw materials, primarily oil, gas, etc. I think there are other reasons. As I said, I haven't been able to study their system in detail, I haven't been able to inform myself whether their defence minister has arrived to build luxury apartments in their pastures, etc. I didn't make it. I have to admit. I hope to have the opportunity to ask if their defence minister is wearing watches of more than tens of thousands of euros, 35,000 euros. That's not what I'm saying. That's what Amir Bislimi says. To remind you who Amir Bislimi is. Yesterday's Democratic Party Director. Amir Bislimi says Dragan Sutanovac must urgently explain where he gets the money for expensive watches, company suits, shoes, as well as a luxury apartment on Vrakar. So, Amir Bislimi, that's not what I'm saying. (Milan Lapcevic, from the scene: What does this have to do with the topic of the agenda? Please ask them to calm down. Also, I haven't been able to study the Azerbaijani system of local self-government. I'm sorry I didn't. I'll try to find out more about it. I'll try to find out if their presidents in Azerbaijan are doing what some of our community presidents are doing. I haven't been able to find out if their presidents are spending tens of thousands of euros on beer? And for some lemonade, I apologize. I don't know if the Azerbaijani community presidents are doing it. Do they also spend hundreds of thousands of euros by investing money in local football clubs, and then pulling that money through cash? I'm really not sure. The previous speaker had just spent a lot of time on the subject of some fights, as someone had beaten someone in a pre-election campaign somewhere. I only know about one fight. I know about the fight at Smederevska Palanca when the then president of the municipality, who is present here today, came across a 63-year-old man, so the man gave a statement that he had been beaten with his hands and feet.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3449	Comrade Markovic, I ask you to return to your agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3450	I'm talking about the reason we finally understand why we're here today, how they exercised power, how they treated key issues, and that's why we're in the situation we're in today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3451	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Sonja Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3452	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Article 106. Am I supposed to talk or do we all know him by heart? That the speaker can only talk about the subject of a search. I would also like to ask Mr Markovic, who has a moment of exposure, when he collects all the information from the locals that he is interested in, how much anyone who has had beer and everything else, to propose to the Assembly that we talk on the subject. Since you don't have the data, you're wasting our time. You're wasting your time and the lives of Serbian citizens on completely inappropriate things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3453	I'm obliged to give an explanation. As you could hear, I warned Mr Markovic to return to the agenda topic. I understand fellow MPs from all MPs who want to protect the dignity of the National Assembly, but I don't understand why, from other parliamentary groups, individual colleagues are lawyers. (Balša Bozovic, from town: Replica! ) Mr. Bozovicu, on what basis? (Balša Bozovic, from the city: The mention of DS. ) Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3454	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished citizens of Serbia, as much as anyone is pushing investors or investments, here, we can show on official data. In 2011, there were three billion direct and 300m euros in investments, and in 2015, only 800m euros in investments. Almost the level of investment dropped by twice. It's official data, it's the source of the National Bank of Serbia, and you can go on the site and look at this data. When it comes to the vision of Serbia and when we heard about someone calling some slave workers, we said the DS advocates a vision of Serbia that will have citizens, not slaves, who will have workers with the right, workers who have the law that protects them, not workers who are ten hours in diapers and cannot go to the toilet, and who have minimal earnings. It's just a vision, ours and yours. That's all right, and don't be mad about it. The OCDs told the public that more than 50,000 people have left Serbia in the last year. That's our problem. It is a problem to deal with this parliament, not to be fascinated by the fact that none of us present, here, I personally have not been to any single day of executive office. Well, since I've never been in executive power, no one can say that I'm a thief or that I took something, so I get muddy, and my colleagues get muddy. Then, I don't know, he's muddying the president of the DS. It won't change the state of things. Fifty thousand leaders have left Serbia. Fifty thousand leaders went abroad. Now, that's our problem. Who will remain in Serbia for ten years, if all those who know something and who have some trade in their hand leave here? Thank you. (Radoslav Milojičić, from place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3455	Mr. Milojich, no. (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: I am mentioned. ) He did not mention his name or name, he mentioned the president of the municipality. He didn't even say who he was. (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: Here, ask the MP. Ask him, he said. ) Here, colleague Markovic says you're right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3456	Thank you. Mr. Markovicu, the SNS is unfortunately for Serbian citizens...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3457	Please, no personal address.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3458	I'm sorry. ... four and a half years master of life and death. Either arrest anyone who broke the law or don't tell any more lies here. You, Mr. Martinovic, are easy for you. I apologize again for my personal address. It's easy for individual SNS deputies to talk nonsense here because they have six functions at one point. The National MP, president of the Assembly, chairman of the Galenika Supervisory Board, chairman of the Privatisation Agency's Management Board, is all head of the parliamentary group at the same time and earns more than 400,000 dinars at the monthly level. As for fear, Mr. Martinovic, we weren't afraid in the 1990s when you bombed this country, when you were nagging the police, when you threatened our leader with a murder, and we're not afraid now or you, or Zvonko Veseinovic, whom I just mentioned, who beats up the political unsuspecting for the SNS account.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3459	Right on line, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3460	It's almost two minutes to respond to this amount of genius statements. Here, we have now heard, dear Serbian citizens, that SNS bombed Serbia in the 1990s. I'm, if you didn't know, the chairman of the Privatisation Agency's Management Board, which hasn't existed in over a year. But, Mr. Ciric, don't answer me yesterday your president of the parliamentary group, whether he or I will resign because Balsa Bozovic, one of the leaders who, fortunately, did not leave Serbia, said – 1,500 employees because an investor who has slaves in China came to China, so now asks them in Serbia to be cheaper than those in China. Then, as for "Meite", a Chinese company that came to Obrenovac and hired 1,500 people -- there you are trying to build a slave force. Yesterday in the air, who's going to go to the office to resign, Mr. Ciric or I, so I'd like you to explain to me, not because of me, but because of the citizens of Serbia, whether the DS policy is that the Chinese are called slave owners, and Serbian citizens who work in Chinese slave companies. Then we'll move on. (Balša Bozovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3461	Now indeed, colleague Bozovic, you have the right to a replica, to explain that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3462	Thank you. Of course, political retirement is due to go to the gentleman who spoke earlier, for the simple reason he has spoken falsely. I said that the owner of "Meite" is the one who did not open a job first in Obrenovac, because the factory does not exist. The moment Serbia gives him 100,000 euros per job for a minimumer, while asking the conditions in the competition to stand for ten hours, what are those workers called rather than slaves? That's what I'm talking about. If the owner of "Meite" is an important business to flourish in China, I don't understand why the government of the Republic of Serbia cares about having such a job in Serbia, where citizens will work for a minimumer, that the only thing they ask for is that some ten hours is on their feet and it costs 60m euros, where Serbia invests 40m euros with zero per cent of ownership. Fortym euros for 400 workers is 100,000 euros per job. I thought you knew math and you could calculate it. I never mentioned that Chinese investors are slave owners, but I said that "Meita" is an investment that Serbian workers are trying to do, and they have not opened any jobs and the question is whether they will open either. That's the whole truth. For that reason, I'd like to ask the former speaker to resign because he lost the bet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3463	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3464	I am advocating the violation of Article 108(1), which says, the president, or the chairman of the National Assembly, is taking care of the order at the meeting of the National Assembly. We are witnessing that here already for who knows which time and who knows which day in a row the chairman is losing control when it comes to running the Assembly. So whether it was the president or vice president, now it doesn't matter how important the next fact is. In this fine conflict that takes place in the assembly hall between the Euro unions, we need to be victims. It's little that we are, but Serbia should listen to them as well. I suggest that you, the chairman, take a break, call on the presidents of the parliamentary groups, so that in a row of days and days we do not stay until late hours, and that this assembly does not accept the name that the people have already given, and that is the vampire assembly, that MPs in the late hours, discuss for about an hour. Who cares what someone's been doing in the past term, did he drink beer or didn't drink beer? Here is the item of the agenda of the agreement between the two states to be postponed for the next two years, and the point is to end the highway. I have a feeling you've completely lost control of the leadership. Don't think it's personal. When an MP from your parliamentary group later says that a colleague has been mentioned, regardless of what you have Decidently declared that no MP has been mentioned, yet you give him your word for this intervention. It's just one of a series of examples. I urge my colleagues again, take a break, call the presidents of the parliamentary groups, agree to continue the work of this assembly normally on the agenda points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3465	Comrade Mircic, I'm obliged to give you an explanation. You are right that in certain parts of the chairmanship, whoever it is, whether I or someone else, loses control of having a session because of the political differences that individual parliamentary groups have with regard to solving certain problems. Believe me, it was nothing against you or your parliamentary group, this is how it was in the previous session, when your MP was not in parliament. I'm trying, I've taken a few breaks yesterday and the president of the assembly is today. If the session does not return to those flows that are scheduled for the Rules of Procedure soon, be assured that we will have a break again. The right to replica has Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3466	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't think I'll answer my word again. Mr. Bozovicu, understand this very well-intentioned. You need to take care of what you're saying. Yesterday you said, quote – 1,500 employees because an investor who has slaves came to China. (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: That's what your colleague from Obrenovac said. ) So yesterday you said that it's not true that this Chinese investor has slaves, and beautifully these girls wrote down, so the stenogram is not me, but these girls, that Chinese investor Meita has slaves and that he hired 1,500 people. It seems another thing – 1,500 employees. Today you say, no one is employed in Obrenovac. Here, I'll take out the stenogram again. (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: Are you employed? That's what you answer to me. Yesterday you said that 1,500 people were employed, and today you say no one is employed. If you want to be a leader, Mr. Bozovic, if you want to be a leader, but a leader who will remain in Serbia, not who will leave Serbia, then you must stand behind your words. You can't say that what's written in the stenogram isn't true. So these girls wrote it down. If their work is unnecessary, Mr. Arsic, let us give them another job, to do something else in the National Assembly, and not every half hour, two girls are replaced by a leading stenogram entering every word that is spoken here, even when it's not spoken from a pay phone. So you said that Chinese investor Meita is a slave owner who has slaves in China and now has them in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3467	My colleague Martinovic, you're bringing the place in.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3468	Yesterday there were 1,500 slaves, and now it turns out that there are no such slaves in Obrenovac because no one is even employed.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3469	It's true there's a stenogram. I don't want to go any further with this discussion. (Balša Bozovic, from town: Replica. ) Comrade Bozovic, let me finish. If you didn't know, there's a tone record besides a stenogram. My recommendation is to get you over this and watch your mouth. Now he's entitled to a replica and a minister, since you've called him as well. Here you go, Mr. Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3470	I just want a little bit. I tried to be precise, but I can see that the main message was not understood again. The message is this: We do not dispute the facts, but look at the dynamics. Public debt has increased, but since the government's arrival in the helm, i.e. the ministry's debt has decreased by 650 million this year, and in 2015 only 1.2 billion has increased. Therefore, we are on a good path, we will descend below 70% and we will be convincing under the Mastrichts before joining the European Union, unlike some countries that have entered the problem-level debt situation, and Serbia will enter with the debt level below the Mastricht. Thank you very much. (Balsa Bozovic, from the post: Replica, Mr Arsic. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3471	There's no one else's claim to the replica. On the basis of Article 104(3), read, no one has the right to reply anymore. (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: You insult me, and I have no right to speak. What kind of way is that? No one has offended you, Mr. Bozovic, if he has read the stenogram of your speech. (Balsa Bozovic, from the post: Why do I not have the right to speak when he spoke to me personally? ) Mr Bozovic, he spoke to you personally by reading your stenogram. (Balsa Bozovic, from town: I cannot be spoken to personally. ) If this is a personal address You have no right to a replica. [[Balsa Bozovic, from town: I have the right to replica.]] (Balsa Bozovic, from the city: According to the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3472	Article 107, dignity of the National Assembly, Mr. Arsic. I would ask you, since this is not like you, not to make it impossible for the MPs to say something they think just because they are members of the opposition political option. That really doesn't suit you. We've had a lot of opportunities to see in this assembly, but it's still not from you. So please, when it comes to untrueness, and the name and name of one of the MPs is mentioned, let him answer. I don't understand what fear and anxiety are in. When I mentioned the visions of a society where civil society exists in one vision, and in another slaver's society, and I think that bad investments made by Serbia are a slaver's society, I said so, and this is derived from the context that Mr. Martinovic said a little while, and that's not true. So I ask you next time to react in a way that does not violate the Rules of Procedure, that Mr. Martinovic does not personally speak to me in this Assembly, because he has no right to do so, and on the other hand, to let me say that 50,000 leaders have left Serbia. I didn't say party members.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3473	I understand, Mr. Bozovic, but you know what? In the last 20 minutes if you couldn't tell each other what you wanted, it won't be enough for you for the next 20 hours, and we have to finish this session. If I hadn't given you at least one replica first, and you had a lot more than one, in the last 20 minutes, you'd be right. The violation of the Rules of Procedure of Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3474	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. In addition to Article 104(3), there is a Article 27 in our Rules of Procedure which obliges you to lead the session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, not as you may think, or that you do not determine that right on the replica, you do not decide by who is of authority, but by who is of the opposition, but by whether the conditions for the replica have been met which you cannot decide freely, but in accordance with what is written in Article 104. The very fact that Mr. Martinovic here shows that he has trouble interpreting the text read, needs to be a little bit more concerned about you not giving MPs the right to replication here, but please note that yours first, to decide whether someone has the right to replication or not is based on whether someone is in power or opposition, so it is not your responsibility to hear something the opposition has to say, but on what it says in this Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3475	Miss, or Mrs. Jerkov, without wanting to offend, you just said that colleague Martinovic can't read. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: Have you heard of the misreading. I've read that stenogram, and you can say I have a problem too. Okay. Someone else may have a problem, but Article 104 says – the use of the rights set out in Articles 1 and 2 of this article is decided by the President, or by the chairman of the National Assembly. If reading a stenogram is offensive, colleagues, misreading. I may be misreading, but I don't think there was any basis for any new replicas. The word is Nenad Christmas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3476	Thank you. Dear MPs, chairman of Serbia's respected citizens, firstly I propose that we return to the topic and talk about this interstate agreement and why it should not, in our opinion, be adopted. We don't think we've got enough reason or any explanation for why this agreement is good and whether it's in the interest of the Serbian state at all. So it's an interstate agreement and there's no friendship between states, so it only exists between people. The countries have interests, and according to the interests, they regulate their relations, and this is one of those agreements that regulates relations between Serbia and Azerbaijan. What's very important to us, we didn't get any reasons here for us to adopt this agreement and where they explain to us that it's in our interest except that we need to make a way. Of course the road needs to be made. We are for that, it's just a matter of funding that way. There are various ways to finance the road. Is this exactly the interstate agreement we're not sure that's the right way. In addition, we have not received any government analysis to prepare this session except for the text of the Agreement which states that this way of funding is the best that is possible at the moment. Of course, four years ago, we can't discuss now, how this agreement was brought in, it's clear to everyone now that it's some kind of relationship that seems to be about some or private or already some other relationships and where we've suddenly become friends with Azerbaijan, and that's why we signed the agreement to finance the construction of the road. What is also very important, we did not get any information here except to call on the report by Corridori Serbia, which reportedly states that more than 70% of the jobs received from Serbian companies. Given that the contract states on the loan that Serbian firms should receive at least 49%. So you can't find any document on this on the Corridor of Serbia website, there are various reports, financial information on work, even the auditor's report, etc. However, there is no such document. He's not even on the government site. What I would like the minister to explain to us may be why the contract and this agreement do not provide for the government to report on how these funds are being spent, which is what companies are paying for, whether they are enterprises from Serbia or from some other countries, i.e. Azerbaijani, since it appears to be the main contractor of the Azerbaijani company's work. So you didn't convince us, although I can see that the MPs from the ruling party, they seem to have that report and I don't know why that report isn't shared with all of us, so we can all see for ourselves. That's very important because if the loan is already being financed that way, certainly it would be best if our companies did it and that money ended up here, not going anywhere outside. That argument is crucial to me, that we vote in favour of this agreement. This way, I don't think there's any argument for it, that is, you haven't convinced us so far, but if we were to deliver it, then we could discuss it. There's another very important thing, is this loan really the right way to finance? Have you considered, perhaps, whether there's another way to finance, let's say now, you should make a budget for next year anyway, have you considered more effectively managing the public sector? You know that in the public sector, we have companies that are making millions of losses that are much bigger than the value of this whole business that we're talking about today. Have you considered changing foreign investors' funding policy through subsidies that are also huge and whether there may be another way to save money and move towards building infrastructure in Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3477	The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3478	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, it is very difficult today in the Serbian Parliament to discuss a bill that objectively opposition politicians can talk about for two to two and a half minutes. This is a terriblely simple law. The essence of this law is in fact a ratification of the international agreement that was concluded on 2 February 2012. It was concluded by some other government in another system. Rated by the Serbian Parliament, that's the basis, that's where we're headed. It was ratified by the Serbian Parliament in another meeting. The terms of the loan were defined by another government, some other finance minister. The interest rate from 4% to 2012 was the regular interest rate on the financial market. Today what is happening is an economic exception in history unremembered. When it's a low interest rate because the Fed's holding is not an interest rate at 0.05 and this time is not going to happen anymore. In 2012, When we negotiated this loan with grace periods, of course the situation was completely different. You're right when you say that we're ratifying today's September 22, 2016 agreement, but in this agreement, we're essentially not changing anything. Everything stays the same. So if we ratify an agreement that has already been ratified, the problem arises that moment because we haven't withdrawn funds on the loan. So there's a significant difference between the work done and the funds withdrawn and it's not disputed to be late. But, you know, the contractor got into the business of building corridors three to four months from the moment the contract was concluded. It is also a time that has made it difficult to implement this contract. When partial situations are made, the corridors of Serbia, of course none of the MPs on the side, remain 7% of the value of the contract to leave financial resources for a period of realisation and guarantees that can arise in connection with the problem of realising the infrastructure project in that period. It is not disputed that these funds will be withdrawn within the next two months. The funds will allow the state of Serbia to realise and complete an infrastructure project that is essential. Today, the question is not raised when the question arises why is it delayed in the implementation of the two-month project, and the payment will be realised in November, why is Serbia late in the construction of highways? We are talking about a country that has not solved its key infrastructure problems, i.e. road corridors. Forty-fifty years, when all serious European countries have solved their infrastructure problems in the corridor area, we are in a position to address them today. When they talk about the problem of realisation, they are, in fact, talking about the fact that the government of Serbia did most in 2015 and 2016 on highway construction. Today we can read these data which are relevant – 37 km of highway was built on Corridor 10, 108 km in the previous year, by 2018 108 km will be built on Corridor 10, 50 km on Corridor 11. All this says that this government also removes Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic's problems that have been inherited in the construction of roads in Serbia in the previous period of time. It's not our problem with SNS that we have an unsettled infrastructure. Our problem is that if after us, as before some governments before us, there is a problem in corridors and infrastructure. Minister Vujovic here said that we should sometimes be economists in the soul. Mr. Minister, here and the economists become politicians. You can't listen to the right economic attitudes here. The problem is in opposition politicians, MPs, I don't want to degrade anyone when right-wing political parties, who are on the stand, advocate social utopian ideas about, for example, primary shows that will fund growth and development, and then you have a problem when other political parties that should be at the centre of the talk about pragmaticism in the functioning of the state. So one MP, I just have to step up, talk, and say that it's okay when you have projects, that these projects should be arranged and understood, and then you have to call an international tender, which is what this Serbian government does, so whoever wins the international tender should get a job. Then let's get back to the beginning, and what about the domestic performers? It's just nonsense. They praise this law and say it is very good that 49% of services or goods will be provided by Serbian companies, and that's fine. When they talk about protectionism and favouring domestic companies today, they should say one key thing, which is that domestic firms are not in these public tenders, public auctions cheaper than foreign performers. You can, it is not disputed, favouring the Public Procurement Act and favouring them, but you cannot favour them through the Public Procurement Act. Finally, the key question – who will pay for it? Do you want to pay the Serbian highway performer out of your pocket more expensive or will the Serbian citizens pay for it? Political and economic defetism, ideas about new economic theories, the original solutions in the world were vasda, and it is not a problem and it will be, but normal and orderly states, like Serbia is trying to be, they differ, I think, in one thing because they respect economic rules and economic laws. The economy is becoming too long, all principles are becoming too long. It doesn't exist and it doesn't start anything from us. If the primary emissions never in the world, except in cases where you are four or five countries that have the right to pull, did not lead to growth and development, it has always led to inflation, then funding from primary emissions will not allow growth and development in Serbia either. It'll make it possible from the real economy. Minister Vujovic is right, but he did not say one thing. In 2012, in September, we did not have a single euro in the vault of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Mladjan Dinkic, in September, had to be in debt for two billion euros to be liquid at all, and this could be attributed to the SNS, is no problem. We won the election and it's our responsibility to lead Serbia, but you don't have to take what's wrong with us when we say we're not from you, some of our ancestors inherited an orderly economic land. We do it, it's hard, it's hard for the pensioners, it's hard for everyone. You don't need to trust the finance minister, trust Pavle Petrovic, president of the Fiscal Council. If you don't believe the IMF, okay, it's not a dispute. The World Bank, all right. Minister of Finance, all right. Pavle Petrovic, the Fiscal Council tells you that Serbia is changing trend. It's not economically ideal, we're fiscally still in a bad economic situation, but we're changing the trend. You know, when you have growth and development that is not based on primary emissions, when you have growth and development that is not based on debt, you have as little surplus as you do, then you have different economists who conduct a policy based on pure economic theory and economic principles, and Serbian citizens can decide on the elections for whom they will vote. And to be a politician, it is not a problem for the opposition with economic parameters, Pavel Petrovic, the problem of opposition political parties and yesterday with a public opinion survey and the fact that they are around the edge of the censors, and that the SNS with reforms it is conducting, headed by Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic, research says, has 52% support for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. If you think that we from the SNS should be ashamed because in Serbia's history we have the greatest political support, as a party and as prime minister, you are mistaken. We have an idea that we are carrying out and we think it contributes to improving Serbia's citizens, and elections and public opinion research just confirms it. Today, when we vote to ratify this agreement, we continue the path we are going and which means that in foreign policy and in the construction of the highway, implementation of fiscal consolidation, Serbia is moving forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3479	Thank you. The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3480	The Honored Chairman, respected ministers with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, is ahead of us today of the draft law amending and supplementing the Agreement signed between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan and my colleague Kovacevic, who spoke before me, has just pointed out that this agreement was signed on 2 February 2012. So that agreement was signed by a government that was in power at the time. However, SNS and its prime minister, Aleksandar Vucic, are responsible, implements responsible state policy and, in that sense, assumes the obligations and continuity of the commitments and signed international agreements. This is also the obligation of responsible statesmen and obligations of the Republic of Serbia. What is the essence of this agreement, i.e. the amendment and addition of the agreement? The bottom line is that the proposal for an agreement grants 300m euros to build a highway on the Ljig-Boljkovci, Bjeljkovci-Taovo, Takovo-Preljina shares. The total amount of funds withdrawn is now 79.5%, in order to fully implement the project mentioned and that the funds proposed by the agreement would be fully withdrawn, so that full implementation of the project was necessary to make a proposal for an amendment and addition of this agreement. Otherwise, as far as the highway's stock is concerned, I have to point out that that section of the highway is at a total length of 40.36 kilometers, that it has 78 bases, that there are 66,000 square meters on it, that there are five tunnels on it. But what I still want to point out, which is very important for this section of the road, is that it is very important from the economic aspect, that is, from the aspect of attracting foreign investment. It is also very important from the point of view of the employment of our workers, because this section of the highway employs between 600 and 1,500 of our non-Azerbaijan workers and employs about 400 machines. Also, this project and the final realization of this section of the highway is also important in terms of the growth of our construction industry, 49% of purchases of goods and services, and the minister seems to have told me as much as 70% is bought in our country. So our construction industry, of course, is benefiting. And what I want to point out in the end, and what's very important for the realization of these projects, is this demographic aspect, what does it mean? By passing the highway, there is a reviving of people's lives in all of these places where this highway and other highways pass through, so highways and entire traffic infrastructure, as was the case in the previous regime, does not run in a circle of two, but goes all the way across Serbia from the north to the south, from the east to the west. It is very important that people in these areas, and it is agriculturally developed areas, but also areas where these migration movements are present towards larger cities in Belgrade, Novi Sad is stopped and people remain living and working in their places. What I also want to point out is that the Ministry of Construction and Infrastructure, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Serbia, has worked for the past two years to improve all aspects of traffic, both by road and by rail, and by air and by water traffic. As far as the railways are concerned, I must point out that 77km of rail tracks have been rehabilitated at the Bar Relations of Belgrade – Bar and on the route from Resnik to Valjev. We expect this rehabilitation of the railroad to go to Vrbnica, or to the border with Montenegro, because this and how much it means to all citizens on this very important railway corridor. What I also want to point out is that in two previous years, the government did a lot of work on the air traffic development plan, so the ER Serbia increased air traffic coverage, it increased by 40%. But what's even more important than that, it's that, in the context of the 2015 traffic charter, it was 15m euros, which is 60% higher than in 2014 compared to 2013 200% higher, so revenue from charter traffic has been achieved. In the end, there's something else I have to say. The safety of passengers and all participants in traffic and how important. The improvement of infrastructure, the improvement of rail road traffic, water traffic, is achieved and that purpose is very important for the lives of citizens, which is safety and security on all roads. Serbia is a working and building country. The SNS has no dilemma and will support the proposed agreement in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3481	The word has the People's MP Goran Jesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3482	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3483	The next is MP Serbian Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3484	First, I must say that I am happy that MPs of the ruling coalition praise this project which has realized and the vision of this project that was realized by the government in which the Democratic Party had its prime minister and most. These, there's no hard words, this time in parliament about these things. As far as I'm concerned, first of all I'm speaking to you, Mr. Chairman and President of the National Assembly, who unfortunately isn't here, I think you're playing ping-pong here. Last week we had a theme, and we heard it several times today when it was a topic for Minister Vujovic, so they sent us a Minister for Local Self-Government and State Administration, today I think Minister Vujovic is competent to talk about this, but this is a serious topic where there must be a Minister who has been announced. I think the government's future commitment when it proposes a rapporteur in the Assembly must be the insistence of the chairman and chairman of parliament that these persons must be here. Unfortunately, we only have to talk to Minister Vujovic, and it's not just his portfolio. The issue is just the moment the bill comes before lawmakers to parliament and the minister himself has said six months. Since April, the technical government has been unable to adopt and we did not know that the agreement should be ratified in parliament. I am not a lawyer, but I know so much that if by the first procedure of Mr. Minister, this law was in this House, it is perfectly understandable that amendments and additions to that same law will have to be ratified in parliament and it is inexplicable why we are six months late with this law today in parliament. It's an emergency procedure after six months. What is the biggest problem and probably you as a serious economist would not allow you to run a company, to come to you with a proposal to amend and supplement a contract that you are obliged to pay some pens because you did not withdraw the funds, and that in the contract basic Article 31, paragraph 1, writes, if I understood well that we would pay a tight interest at an unrepaired amount of 0.5% per year, or 1% on these two proposed years, which is about 600 and a few thousand euros, if I understood correctly, if about 60 million were left to withdraw. I guess they'd be looking for you as a serious economist and someone who runs the firm to deliver any report on the state of affairs that's going on on the project you're running. I expected that we would get at least one descriptive report here in which phase of the project we are making today, and I expected that today we will have answers to the questions that the minister has opened about these famous tunnels, that we know who the contractors are, that we know the percentage of the completion of the work and that we know finally, since we have come close to the end of this project when this project will be completed and when will this project be allowed to be used? After that, we can talk about it, at this point whether we're going to go on or not. No, we get a shri bill of law and what's very amazing, after almost seven months the Assembly doesn't work, we get all of the clubs out of the law, obviously the government has more important things to do than deal with what its job is, it's that it sends bill proposals to solve even some problems in this country. There is a report that we found on your site, which is paid fees on outstanding funds from 2008 until December 2015, and what worries me, and you asked a question at some point, or you realized that no one was responsible for these 600,000 euros, which we will have to pay afterwards, or for the funds that the public company EPS reserved, and did not withdraw projects for the numbers, fees that we paid, or the penalty we paid in 2013 - 200 000 euros, in 2014 - 200 000 euros in 2015 - 200 000 euros. Then again, the EPS project for small hydropower plants 225 000 euros - in 2013, just as much in 2014, and slightly more in 2015. We can go in a row. It's a list that's long enough to indicate all the funds that haven't been withdrawn and how much foam we've paid for those funds. For example, very interesting "Serb Railway", we paid for the multi-part vehicle project 457 thousand in 2013, so 400,000 euros in 2014, then 280 thousand in 2015. Again "Serb Railways" for Corridor 10 almost 500 2013, 418 000 euros – 2014, 377 000 - 2015. Again, "Serb Railways" for the rehabilitation of the 581 thousand railways – 2013, 475 thousand – 2014, and 475 thousand in 2015. This list is an asset for IBRD funds, for Chinese credit funds, for Azerbaijani credit funds, etc., etc. So we come to 28m euros of foam that we paid only in the period from 2013 to the end of 2012 until today, that is, 31 December of last year. Someone's got to be guilty of that. Someone has to be responsible for why we don't realize projects in the dynamics that are necessary to do so and we need to know why we're late. We didn't get an answer today - why are we late for this project that could have been completed? Rainy days are no excuse. We had to get a surveillance report, we had to know what we were discussing here today. What it is is your best mirror of the situation after the flood. The European partners, the EU and other countries from the world approved 160 million aid for rehabilitation in flooded areas and for defence dams in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and then your co-ordinator Marko Blagojevic spent only 46m euros. It means that we simply, we don't know, we don't have projects and we can't realize those resources. That's also proof with today's prolonging of the loan that's ahead of us today. What you need to worry about, first of all, is that all of us and the citizens of Serbia are trying to save maximum savings everywhere, and on the other hand, four million euros of "The Railway" fail because it has not withdrawn funds. Who is the director of Railways, who is the chairman of the board of directors, who is the resolution minister and when he will answer for it. Those are the questions we're interested in here. Of course, it's important to this corridor, and of course it's essential every mile of time that is made, but I will remind you for the end that you yourself have mentioned how long the process of the idea project, the expropriation, the spatial plan, etc., the realization of the project, that this government, after four years, begins a serious project, that another government in seven or eight years to work on these projects. All the projects that we're doing today are being realized from the periods that were prepared four years ago. Start doing what's very important, which is that you're finishing these projects, not losing resources, and on the other hand, show the ability and vision to open new projects that you won't definitely finish, but some other government will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3485	The word has Minister Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3486	I just want to explain for a little bit what this is about. First, I fully agree with the request or the proposal that there is a responsibility to manage all the funds, including the management of the funds that are employed and not withdrawn, it can be called an undrawn asset compensation. It used to be called inter-caral interest, it can be called in various ways, but the fact that you pay the lender the difference between optimal placement and keeping those assets in liquid form. So he has to use credit funds to hold those assets in liquid form. It makes a small contribution to those funds. Until you pull them back and start paying full interest he's charging you that intercaral interest. The paradox is that you can actually save on this if it is planned to withdraw the funds on June 1st, and you withdraw them on December 31st, you will save six months of interest, which is in particular 3.5% cheaper on condition that the project function is not delayed. This could happen especially in special credit tranches. So if something comes up to you in time and the project doesn't end up showing up. If something has arrived in time, you can save on inter-caral interest because you're shrinking, your inter-caral interest is growing. These four million you've calculated, the question is whether we've saved on basic interest or not. We're probably not because there's a problem when the loans are late, then we cancel the funds. So you're paying inter-caral interest, and you don't take advantage of it at all, and that's the problem with the bad-planned funds, the projects aren't ready, etc. The topic is a particular topic, but the main problem is that we don't have a penal system in our budget system. Once we move on to programming, into deeper programming, then it'll be clear how we plan it, how we do it. We will have indications that those who are responsible for this are responsible for the results, and therefore I expect your support when we move on to that budget planning system and its realization to include it. The remark is completely in place and the example is good, but it doesn't have to mean in the interstep. I'm going back to a very important question here. You found it well - it was signed in February 2012, ratified in May, became effective in May 2012 before the election, before the end of these elections of presidential and parliamentary, before the formation of the government. We're practically extending. So this isn't a new contract, this is just a change in just one member, which refers to a term of use of funds. The economic alternative for us here is to stop this, so we don't pay for the penalty. If we were to cancel the contract with the lead performer, then we'd have to pay for the penalty. So the alternative for us rights and the only alternative is to pay for it from the budget. So now you see, from the budget, that we pay that 62 or 61.5 million, how many unexecuted works are left or to ratify this. It's a real economic dilemma. The papers seem to have been done 20 and a few million over that, and we'll finally find out as soon as we're done with this. It is very possible that we will end until the end of this year as planned and it is very possible that this deadline that we propose is more than enough to end it because it costs us nothing in this situation. Therefore, if we finish early, we will withdraw all resources early. If there's any savings left, that part will be cancelled. We're not gonna keep paying for this loan. So the situation is actually a lot simpler than it's supposed to be. As for quality planning, problems and other issues, it's a question of a different analysis. It's a matter of different reporting and everything. My proposal is and here I support everyone who said that we are going on a focused, deeper and more precise report on all the projects so that you know and that we know where we are, what problems we have, where we are late and why we are late and when we can expect results, and that's the most important part, that our projects are late and that late projects are being blocked. The biggest damage is the missed result. You have these highways famous from field to field. There's no one passing through. For years, hundreds of millions of euros stand, and we don't use roads. It's a missed economic gain. Lost time for people to get from here to Cačka and I went four and a half hours this summer to Belgrade – Cačak. It's a lost time for all of us, hours and hours are lost. It is something that will help the Serbian economy, which will help bring people to where they need to be that day at that time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3487	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Katarina Rakic. On what grounds? (Katarina Rakic, from the place: I am authorised. He can't. In the end. You can't, you can't. The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3488	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Ministers, the law on the agenda today is a law which I will certainly support as the MP of the Serbian Progressive Party and which will support quite certain and other MPs of our parliamentary group. What's very important to say in the beginning is that I'm looking forward to one of the upward paths that our relations with the Republic of Azerbaijan are going. There were also words here today about Azerbaijan that do not contribute to strengthening our good relations, our co-operation and our economic co-operation above all, which is important for Serbia's future, which is important for new jobs and which is important for the citizens of Serbia. For the sake of truth, for the sake of citizens' interest, and for the sake of our good relations with the Republic of Azerbaijan, it is important to say that this country from which we have entered the loan and loan process is a country that has invested 190 billion euros in its country in the past 10 years, a country where unemployment is at 5%, a state where public debt is at 8% of GDP. These are facts that talk about what economic policy there is, how the Republic of Azerbaijan is progressing and why we can learn some positive things from Azerbaijan. Also, areas where we can strengthen co-operation with Azerbaijan are agriculture, the military industry, energy and the development of our infrastructure. Today we are talking about the development of our infrastructure and why these roads are important, why they are gone and why they were not here from 2000 to 2012, even from the 1990s. Why is it important that we have these paths, and why is it important that this highway is finished? Why is Corridor 10, 11, etc. important? Well, it's important because then new jobs go. There's no investment if there's no infrastructure. That's what's fundamental to opening new jobs. There's no better life without roads. Once Serbia is intertwined with a network of highways, then even faster, factories will be opened throughout Serbia and are now opening. We also managed to reduce the unemployment rate, which no one in the past 20 or 25 years went hand in hand. This is proof that politics, the economic policy of the Serbian Progressive Party and the government run by Aleksandar Vukic is good for Serbian citizens. But why were there no roads in Serbia? Why did our villages stay abandoned? Why are households abandoned throughout Serbia? Because those roads were gone. There was no infrastructure. In most parts of Belgrade, the sewers failed to implement the 21st century. In some municipalities in Serbia children don't have water every day. Aren't they proud? Should this be proud of those who led this country, not just in 2000, but before? Is that for pride? I don't think so. To tell us about the economy, about the business, people who made it happen, but not in politics, not using their political ties as a privilege, but those who took credit, created a project, opened their own company. But the gentlemen who led Vojvodina to this year, who led Serbia until 2012, were always few, so they used power to gain personal privileges, while Serbia was increasingly sinking into dubiosis. One example of boasting, insolent, living above the citizens of Vojvodina and Serbia is an example, and which is very easy to get, anyone who wants to find it, on the Agency for Business Registers site, I had the opportunity to look at the firm Milk Republic, whose founders are Mr. Goran Jesic, former Deputy Prime Minister of Vojvodina, former regional secretary, and Mr. Goran Antic, godfather or uncle, which already comes to the former DS Director Beslimi. All godmothers, relatives and friends. The company, here, can also see Serbian citizens, has provided the Clinical Centre in Novi Sad with dairy products. I'll tell you a few more things. Mr. Former Deputy Prime Minister of the AP Vojvodina has a stake of 45% in the company, with the founding capital that he brought in 450 dinars, otherwise somewhere around 1,000 dinars is total founding capital. That and that company, with that and the owners, I don't think she could possibly have supplied the Clinical Center. And that's an example of one case. Now someone's going to say it's not about the subject, but it is about the topic, because we don't have roads because of that policy and that kind of relationship with the money and the citizens of this country. For these reasons, for example. There's no way to get to the village, people are leaving their villages and leaving. For these reasons, young people were leaving Serbia because you had to be the cousin of a government vice president, a secretary, a cabinet chief or someone else, so you could make money. Since the vast majority of citizens were not in this situation to be in the relatives' and godfather's relations with the oligarchs of the previous regime, the majority of citizens were condemned to suffer, to be oppressed, to be cut off by electricity, to have no sewers, to have no water, to have no roads, to have no future, to have no jobs. While some of them, of course, drank hundreds of bottles of beer, while everything was fun and funny, we lived worse, harder, with no perspective. Today we can boast that the government led by Aleksandar Vukic has managed to turn things around in Serbia, that more roads are being built and done than in Joseph Broz's day. No government in the past 60 years has built as many roads and highways as the government led by Aleksandar Vukic. By the end of the term of office, the government will be fully done everything regarding the 10 and 11 highways in Corridor and restored about 1,100km of roads in Serbia. So, 1,100 kilometers. I'd like some of the others who ran this country to show where they did that 100 kilometers of highway. Not 1,100, but 100 kilometers of highway for 12 years of government or 20 years in Vojvodina. Where? What did they do? If they ran the Vojvodina economy so well and if the citizens were so satisfied with their knowledge and skills, then I wonder why the citizens of 95% of the Vojvodina municipalities supported Alexander Vukic and the Serbian Progressive Party? Why? If you ran Belgrade so well, then what support did you get in Belgrade when you lost 15 of the 17 municipalities? Well, you lost in Old Town on the republican list, and convincingly, you were third. Even those who were few were others. That's where they were third. I'm glad that one of the previous speakers from that indisputable opposition, who thank God will never be in power again, quoted unconsciously or consciously my address from the day before yesterday, when I said that Serbian citizens are neither naive nor foolish, nor crazy. Our people are very smart, when they give support and when they make a voice look at how many paths you've made, how many schools you've renewed, how many toilets you've left for children in those schools, how kindergartens, how you're employed, what is the level of corruption, employment, unemployment. People measure it all, wait for election day, take their family by the hand, go to the polling post and round the SNS, and finally send the next election to the junkyard of political history of those who are now the opposition and who have, behold, they barely get together in this Assembly to sit a little bit. Some don't even know who their party president is, some do performances, others don't know. I am sure that citizens of Serbia today who are watching this transmission know very well that the results and know that the estimates of who is and what has been doing in the previous period and that, when the time comes for some of the next elections, assess whether the credit and co-operation that we are continuing with Azerbaijan today is real or not, or how, and then give the court the right way to what we talked about today and what we will talk about in the coming months and years in this Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3489	The word is made by MP Branka Stamenkovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3490	Thank you. Article 106(1) We've gone far from the agenda again. Chairman, please, I know that for days we've been working deep into the night, that the concentration is dropping, but by doing this, we're just making things worse. If someone's already calling out what someone hasn't, how they left it in this state or in that state, which is completely past the agenda, then they might as well say what he's done for the last four years to change it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3491	My colleague, since I have looked at everything in this House for the past few years, I can say that Serbian counterpart Filipovic has been on the subject. Each MP has the right to say, defend and explain some law in his own way. I didn't make those rules up, and I don't want to change them, and neither do you, because we're not so illiterate that we don't know what's in the subject. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Yes) All right. The word has the People's MP Goran Jesic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3492	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't know exactly what the subject is, that you're doing your profession, but that's not a subject, and I don't want to answer to any questions across the street. What I am more interested in, Minister, is that you have not answered my question which I am very interested in, which was the focus of my discussion, which is – would you really accept that without a report on the state of affairs, without a surveillance report, accept as we have received these documents in parliament today? Let's get serious. I agree with you all that you need to tighten fiscal control. We realized together that we had lost money for unrealised projects, we realized that you would get support for project financing absolutely, but what we're going to do with 28m euros, which at this point we have a problem and see how these things don't happen anymore, that we know what it is exactly what we're discussing today. And you and I are guessing how many works have been done, we don't even know how much to pay, we don't even know what percentages they are, and we don't know the date on which the technical examination of that facility will be carried out, and when they will be issued as a final document. That's what all of us need to be interested in when talking about this topic. Thank you. I'd like an answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3493	Thank you. The word has Minister Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3494	So, in the light of this amendment, the amendment to the Agreement states that the situation in July was withdrawn, do not make me speak to the last figure, 238m euros, from the estimated 300m loans, or 308m total loans. It is written that it is ready for the next withdrawal of the moment when credit funds are re-available for the next 20 million and that all credit funds are expected to be used by the end of the work. The procedure as the situation arises, the procedure as the funds are transferred to the main contractor, the procedure that is being transferred from their account to subcontractors has already been settled, agreed earlier and that we do not influence it. So, the finance ministry is only competent to verify that the amount of credit used is properly entered on the basis of the documentation that has passed the check and has been accepted because it has to be verified as an increase in our debt. So this is a specific situation in these loans that are export credits, since the total amount of credit is not coming to Serbia, but it is directly paid to the user, and it pays off companies that are subcontractors. From that same source, I quoted a 70 per cent loan number that was transferred to that amount of 238 million companies that were Serbian negotiators. The so-called so-called. Unscheduled works, but the contract clearly states that unscheduled works do not enter those 300 million, there are some price reserves and quantitative reserves there, but they will have to be covered from the budget. So, the contract says that all works that exceed the 300m-euro value, of course, again with the proper documentation, verification, etc., will be put to us for payment. That's the essence of the situation. So they say there's no reason to do so. The cancellation of a portion of the loan funds means that it is realistic to use all 300 million and that it will be done as far as we can within these deadlines and predict much faster deadlines of effective withdrawal of these loans. The procedures as they are done are not designed in this project. These are standard procedures that have been applied in all similar projects in the past and they are repeated. So it's a procedure that performs works, who file files, who controls. Control and surveillance are operating corridors. There's been a lot of talk here about whether they were doing an independent public procurement for whoever was monitoring it. They're authorized to conduct surveillance. Therefore, this possibility that has been used here is something that you can ask as a question, it has been used here, obviously, within the competences that the Serbian Corridors have. So far, no one has disputed that the documents are inadequate and no one has disputed that these documents are the basis for payment. It is only a matter of any speed that payment is made, the withdrawal of credit from the bank in Azerbaijan to the main contractor and the transfer of these funds to subcontractors in Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3495	Thank you. The next is Sonja Pavlovic, and be prepared Zoran Bojanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3496	Mr Vujovicu, I will rely on your answer from a colleague, Vesovic Dragan, to ask the question he asked. That better and more reliable project preparation is needed. I must tell you that the Law on Planning and Construction has fully defined the procedure for preparing projects and that the law is missing, but that it would be much less deficient if the procedure was implemented. Why doesn't the ministry that passed the law fully enforce that law? I really can't figure it out. For this reason, among other things, I find it unacceptable that Minister Zorana Mihajlovic is not present here. But this time, we'll have some questions for you, among other things, that you might try to answer or forward, and we'll get answers, so I'll start from the beginning. The culprit for why we are here is the confirmation of the agreement in question, and the culprit is the ministry led by Mrs. Mihajlovic. The policy she runs by the ministry is devastating for domestic construction. So, an entire business branch is donated to foreign builders, leaving only the possibility for domestic performers to be vasals, I will repeat once again, vases in my own country. However, it did not start from Ms. Mihajlovic's ministry. I have to say that before this Azerbaijani firm here, the Alpine company, which we mentioned, and Strabag, is still operating, and Por and all those other companies, but practice says, and I come from a practice where I have been in the field for 30 years, that the situation on the ground is unsustainable for domestic construction. To whom was the goal, and why did it happen for domestic construction workers to become cheap labour, as if from third world countries, and to be convinced that this is good for our construction, I really can't understand it? If we look at this agreement that we, or the president of our parliamentary group, have already said that we disagree with it, and, of course, I disagree with it, but if we were to observe it, we could say that the Republic of Azerbaijan has done a good job, which I could not say about the Republic of Serbia, which I believe has done a very destructive job for our construction and construction workers, as I have already said, made the market of cheap labour. In parallel with that, I can also answer Mr Filipovic that I am not answering this as someone who is only in politics, but someone who comes from practice, and if you are listening to the message of someone who comes from practice, you must understand that your laws, agreements, rules, in practice don't work. If you want to talk about the construction that needs to be built and created projects that will build up construction, then you're working on rehabilitating domestic construction, don't give it to foreign companies. All that I've said can be a special debate. What we were at least discussing here, which I believe is, unfortunately, Mr Vujovic, and I think this is a question for Mrs Mihajlović, but you try to answer me, so two basic things are at stake – who is to blame for breaking deadlines on the construction of Corridor 11? The guilt in construction is very simple. So we have a designer, a auditor, a performer, a supervisor, an investor. In that series, some expertise will very much show who's to blame. Because we're sitting here today talking about whether or not we should confirm the agreement. That's why we broke the deadline. Not everyone can break a window, only one student broke a window. In this series, someone is guilty and he should suffer the consequences of it. Another thing that interests me very much – whether the loan funds, which have not been spent, means, I heard that it's been spent around 74-75%, I got that information, so don't hold my word, so there's about 25-30% of the money left, is that enough to complete the work on the Ljig-Preljina section? That stock is demanding, it's 40.36 km, a lot of overpasses, a lot of tunnels, it's all right, but if we didn't switch, we don't have an end situation, that's one colleague who said nicely, we don't have a cut, we don't have a realisation. So I think we're talking about something in advance, so we're confirming something that we don't know -- who's to blame for having to extend the deadline, and we don't know if the resources left are enough to finish this thing we're extending? One more question, specifically for you. In all this, what can be our guarantee? Hypothetically, and it's very likely to happen, because the ruling majority here is indeed the majority, that we will vote this in a sense that suits the ruling majority. What guarantee do we have that by 2018 we will not have another confirmation of the confirmed agreement? What is our guarantee that in 2018, October, we will not share what we are talking about now and extend that deadline? Because here, now the Higher Education Act, as well as these senior students. So those are the answers I expect from you. I'm not happy, really, and I don't know if anyone can be pleased that Minister Mihajlovic isn't here. It owes everyone present here an answer to a set of questions, each individual MP, as well as citizens of Serbia who, in the end, pay all these extensions, delays and all mistakes for which we will never define the culprits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3497	Thank you. Before I give you my word, I want to tell you one extremely good news for our country, and I want to congratulate, on my behalf and all the citizens of Novi Sad and Serbia on another extremely beautiful victory, this time in the field of culture, which is the news I just received from Brussels, that the city of Novi Sad was elected to the European Capital of Culture in 2021. I would like to congratulate everyone who has contributed to this election and such a good presentation of the city of Novi Sad in the final elections. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3498	I just wanted to respond to some comments. First, I would like to thank you for your constructive tone and your suggestions. There's only one thing I want to explain here. Between the lines, it's like there's some idea that someone did something about it. I think that we can analyse and in particular address the issues of disseminating the competitiveness of certain sectors of Serbia in the former Yugoslavia and see what happened here. So it's a special topic, which requires a lot of debate. Remember that Serbia and Yugoslavia had an extremely strong competitive position in the markets of the former Soviet Union, in Africa, in Latin America, etc., not only in performance, not only in low construction, but in a whole range of areas, and that they managed to be both at a quality and at a cost and for reliability very good competitive. Second, they had a monitoring of the banking system. Third, they had designing, planning, which was then, at that time in the world significantly above the relative place we are taking today. Absolutely, compare, it's very difficult. But you can compare our companies, from specialized firms to general firms. So we all know that. Now, since there's been a break-up, we can analyze that separately. I know it's one of the things that happened, which is the collapse of our financial system, one of the blows that the construction sector has never recovered from. Why did it happen like that, it's not as obvious as what, perhaps, arises from your words. Because these banks, mostly, didn't crack in the construction sector, they broke, under the assumption, and went into trouble elsewhere. So, it wasn't the projects that failed in the former Soviet Union or in Africa, it was the companies that got into us, the sanctions and everything else, the blockades, the blocking of all our positions in the world, and that after 10 years of sanctions produced the effects that we have today. We can analyze what happened, but that's a fact. What we're talking about today, it's a cumulative consequence of all of it, of the ability of our companies to adapt in the world as it is today and to buy their place under the sun again, which is that everyone uses the advantages that they have, including funding, references, technical ability and everything else. In some things, and I witnessed it while I was working for the World Bank in various countries, our companies lost their competitiveness in these fine things. So technology's advanced, we didn't have the resources. Funding has progressed, quality and dynamics of the performance of works. We lost markets here because no one could follow them, but no one threw them out, we squeezed ourselves out. Now the question is, how do we get it back? Now, you're asking the question – is this the best loan? It seems to me, given all the limitations, that this is one of the expensive, and not the best, but certainly reliable ways to get our companies back to the market, to get references and then to start fighting back for that place they used to have in some countries. In some countries, such as Kazakhstan, etc., which have a lot of money and enormous needs, some of our companies have been held back. In some other places, they simply lost their place. It's here specifically. This is a set of circumstances that went hand in hand. You know the other government signed this agreement, but it seems to me that it was obviously Azerbaijan's desire to exploit the capacity of the company that's the main contractor here, to use the extra capital he had in the production of gas and oil and to place it into other development branches. So it was a coincidence of their desire to do so and, unfortunately, our hard and painfully acquired comparative advantage that by falling real wages, we became competitive in the lowest parts of the pyramid of jobs. That's what nobody wants, but that's what happened. Is that where we should stay? Certainly not. Can we skip those stages in getting back the reference, getting back the financing of the market and everything? I'm afraid we can't. So we're talking about different ways. Now we're talking here about a project that's already signed and we're just considering the situation of whether we don't extend this and finance the difference from the budget to the end of this project, or if we just try to do everything we can to make it the way it's planned to be in the future. Which guarantees us we won't do it again, nothing. You're absolutely right, we don't have a guarantee, you understand, because we never, even have examples of our companies having access to us deliberately being the price that's below cost to put, under the quote, a leg in the door, and then it's going to spread, and then it's going to charge everything else. So it's become a practice. We have to tell people that everywhere in the world in the best markets that doesn't work. It just passes where people twist the public procurement system and let someone in that feleric system win, and then worry about it. You have Western companies doing the same thing, you mentioned examples here today and a company that had a hundred million overruns on 200 million projects. Whoever tries and passes is a bad sign. In good countries, that doesn't work. Unfortunately, I have to tell you that our IMF colleagues, who control us, have overruns of probably 200 percent of their own building reconstruction project in Washington. So no one's been operated on by these weaknesses. It happens to everyone. Investors always do that. Let me finish. Therefore, your proposal requires, I think, much more serious attention and the question of some of our strategies -- how do we bring back sectors where we have a potential comparative advantage to be competitive? We're dealing with these things not enough. We have tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, we'll have a conversation in Nis about how to choose priorities and how to make them happen. One of the things is that. I don't think it would be bad for parliament to deal with such thematic issues of sectoral priorities and how they are realised which are in line with the practice in the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3499	Thank you, Minister. The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3500	Thank you, Your Honor. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, on the agreement itself, all that was to be said, said Mr. Minister, many times and I see that there is nothing controversial about it. There's a series of questions opening up here. First of all, I see the question of design. If we all know that the contract was made and made in February 2016, I assume that someone had worked at least two years earlier. I'm not a designer, but I think someone should come out and record the route, project everything that's supposed to be done. And now we're creating a picture that, if the project is badly done or if there are objections to the project, it's Alexander Vukic and this government. I don't know. I'm not a designer. We're talking construction time. Are the deadlines respected? The agreement was signed in February, ratification was in May, everything that was defined was defined in September, and the MPs in the meeting remember that, at least six months, we talked about the oak in Slavkovica every day. That's where the environmentalists, the biologists, and all the living ones gathered together to prove that the route should not go that way, and surely during that time there was no work, no work done. We're talking about domestic companies. Mr. Minister said that 70% of the work on this project is done by domestic companies, and I believe that what he pointed out here, we will certainly get for some future projects, even if some hodogram and how the work is done and how the funds are spent. Even here has been raised as one of the key issues – who made the contract? Okay, it was made by some previous government. What, aren't we supposed to continue that contract? We shouldn't have done something that's a development project for the Republic of Serbia, especially for those of us living downstairs at the Ibari Master's and whose life goal is to have some highway? In particular, Kraljevo will have a highway, at this point, about 20km to Preljina, which means a lot for the economic recovery of the destroyed part of Serbia, which has been lagging behind the north for years, i.e. for Vojvodina and Belgrade. A respected colleague asked a question – what about the Moravia Corridor? As a member of the Committee on Transport, Telecommunications, spatial planning in the previous meeting, I can answer that the project is envisaged by the Strategy for the Development of the Republic of Serbia and that all those preparatory actions are being done. Thank God we're doing that project, and the one down from Nis to Drach. Is the deal good? It's a key question in the end. Now, after five years or four years of realisation, we're going to be asking whether he's good or not. We'll make sure we don't make such agreements in the future if it's not good. Are we gonna stop a project like that? No, not at all. In voting day, I'll give my vote for the deal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3501	Thank you. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word. You have one minute and 17 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3502	Mr. Minister, I would refer to your findings earlier on about the collapse of the Serbian construction industry and the collapse of four major banks, which you mentioned. Normally, when our country is ruined and occupied, it's normal for them to destroy our economy, including our construction operation. I really can't agree with you that these banks, four large, mean state banks, have failed economically or gone bankrupt. That's not absolutely true. They've been destroyed in a political-mafian way. To this day they still exist until today each year, one significant amount of money, around 20m euros, is drawn from them. The four banks remain, and their destruction was necessary in order to rob Serbia and prevent Serbia from developing economically. As for today's topic and this extension of the deadline we have ahead of us, here is a key issue of supervision and control. Just now, a colleague raised that question and asked. I would refer to the issue of surveillance and control regarding another matter. In fact, he was just a member of the ruling Cačka party who said, on the occasion of a tunnel that even the minister and the Prime Minister called him a scandal, he relativated and said -- well, you know, it's a bit of a centimeter. What if you have a project error, so you're short an inch or two? One or more inches times 40 kilometers times six strips is for someone rich. Here's the problem that we've been missing for many years surveillance over the execution of works, surveillance of projects and people have gained wealth, as Mr. Seselj said this morning – sometimes Chume, as Mr. Milojic said earlier – today some others are earning that money, and here is the key question – when will we finally have control? To look at this contract alone, there is no country that has developed by foreign investment and borrowing. Mr. SNS, who spoke before several exhibitors, Mr. Kovacevic, I think his name is, absolutely shows no knowledge of the matter he's talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3503	Time. I've given you a lot of time. It's okay, 'cause he was clapping for this good news. It made all the citizens of the New Now and the whole state happy. The word has a national emissary, Vesna Markovic. Let Alexander Jerkov prepare himself. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3504	Dear Presidents, ministers, fellow MPs, my colleagues, as well as Minister Vujovic, presented a lot of details about the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Azerbaijan, and I would refer to the importance of building a traffic infrastructure, above all, for investments to develop trade, tourism, agriculture and other business branches. It also has great importance for the development and establishment of small and medium-sized enterprises that have also been spoken of quite recently. Then it is very difficult to function normally and ensure quality living conditions in rural areas without roads. Just because of decades of stagnation in this sector, some parts of Serbia simply didn't have a chance to develop. Since I am talking about the stock located in the western part of Serbia, I must note that the potentials of this region are also not used enough, especially when it comes to tourism, which is a great opportunity for the economic development of this region. At the moment, the Ibarska highway is the only route connecting Western Serbia with Montenegro and the Belgrade-South Adriatic highway, a link between Serbia and Montenegro, i.e. Belgrade and the South Adriatic, in a broader sense, will connect Romania, Serbia, Montenegro, Italy. The construction of this highway creates a link between Western and central Europe and South-Eastern Europe and, of course, all the traffic that has been carried out, both passengerly and so burdened with the Ibar highway, will be unloaded and, of course, there will be fewer car accidents that have often had a fatal outcome. In parallel with this project, there will certainly be smaller infrastructure projects and today there has been a lot of talk about domestic and foreign companies and the minister said, I will repeat, that around 70% of the performers are from Serbia. As a candidate country for EU membership, we aim to achieve European standards in all areas, in order to achieve the economic standards of the most developed EU countries, the government of the Republic of Serbia has so far made great efforts to improve the quality of life of all of us. I am extremely glad that the Serbian government has recognised the importance of building transport infrastructure for integration, not only in our country, but for connecting in the region and of course connecting with European countries, and we have shown this in practice by building 84km of highways in just two years. In the context of building this network infrastructure, I would certainly mention a Berlin process that has great importance and represents a milestone for co-operation in our region, because this process also provides for the construction of infrastructure projects, which is the highway Nis-Pristina-Dras and that is the reconstruction of the Belgrade-Sarajevo railway. Our largest foreign trade exchange is with the EU countries and is about 80% with CEFTE countries. All of what I was talking about, that is, networking of traffic infrastructure will certainly contribute to improving current economic activities and will, of course, directly affect our country's economic growth. I believe that none of us have a dilemma that investment in infrastructure is the best investment for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3505	Thank you. The word is Alexander Jerkov. Let Ivana Stojljkovic prepare himself. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3506	Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, ministers, we haven't been able to hear much from you. We've heard the financial details of the loan, however, what's important to us so that we can assess if there's any basis to support this, because we could hear from the minister who didn't come today. It is Mrs. Mihajlović, because she could only tell us why this happened, why the deadline for realization is extended, why it extends for two years if you and other colleagues claim that this is just about to be over. We didn't get any follow-up report with this bill so we know if what you're saying is really true, and I don't know if you've had a chance to see something like that, and don't mind we don't have much reason to trust you very much. Some colleagues talked about how we got into this situation, we came into this situation by not finishing a project that someone else had arranged, realized and began to realize. It is the only wisdom, it is the only responsibility in all of this, lies on the third government of Alexander Vukic who is unable to realise this project. However, as we know the word responsibility is completely unknown to you, we do not know who is responsible for this move now, which will cost us 600,000 euros on its own. We don't know, yesterday we were talking about Jelizara, you weren't there, we don't know who was responsible for that huge 450m-euro debt, except for the prime minister's words that it was some kind of boy fight. He thus characterised a 450m-euro debt. We do not know who is responsible for these 28m euros paid by the government of the Republic of Serbia in the previous four years as penalties for the loans it has raised and the funds it has not withdrawn. We don't even know how you can tell us today that there hasn't been any reduction, or withdrawal of funds to local self-government, but as you said to the tax level. You can explain to that child who will no longer have a paid ride to school or family, a young man who will not get a package for a baby or an old man who will no longer have anyone to help him because of your tax clearance will not be able to pay them more. However, we heard one very important thing from you, which is that indeed in the previous four years the public debt of the Republic of Serbia has increased by 10,000 euros, sorry, where it is fortunate that 10,000 euros, by 10 billion euros. You only wanted to explain at one point in some way how this actually means the debt is shrinking, so when my colleague Bozovic initially said that from 15 billion to 24.5, you said-- yes, only it's exactly the opposite because the debt is shrinking. If in the past few months the debt has fallen, don't be resentful doesn't change the fact that you have increased that debt by 10 billion euros over the past four years and that again, as your manner is, you are seeking responsibility elsewhere. Please just answer two very specific questions. First of all, how much will this extension cost a citizen? Have you seen any documentation with your eyes that will convince us that these works will indeed be completed within that time limit you speak of? If so, why did you not deliver such a thing to the congregation so that we could see it with our own eyes? And just once again to explain to us where 10 billion euros went, for which the three governments of Aleksandar Vukic were in charge for the previous four years?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3507	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3508	I admire your ability to bring 15 different topics together into one paragraph that may be connected in your way of thinking, but it's not really connected at all. Let's start with that call to tax levels first. Wait for things to appear in the congregation and we'll talk about them. If from a broken sentence, one report that someone misread where the idea was to get back the VAT on children with parents. For baby items, for baby nutrition and the rest compensates by increasing, that's what you said about tax fluctuations, you said about babies. We suggest that the current adage in a system where 750 people, over 15% of the people in the IRS, deal with tax accounts, fiscal accounts and return of minor VAT amounts totalling between 400 and 450 million dinars, while their working hours cost the state about 300, 350 million, we consider this a bad way, with delays, and we want to compensate it with a zero or positive fiscal effect for families. We want to support it, and people get it as an addendum, so-called. A family supplement for people, families with small children, and that is the intention and we will propose it in all possible situations where simpler systems with equal or better fiscal effect for our citizens give the right effects. Laws that aren't so-called. The basic tax laws, these are laws in the social sphere, which require such high costs on the side of the administration and draw us away critical resources from the real efforts of the Tax Administration, which should be directed to detecting the grey economy, to collect income, etc., I think they should be the subject of our analysis and gradual abolition in line with the practice in the world. The second question, the right question – how much will this extension of the contract cost? If we could, if the partners of Azerbaijan had allowed us to do this without ratification, if we had sent the letter we sent on April 4th, if they had responded positively, we would have extended this on May 5th and there would have been no effect. Since that didn't happen, because they said they were seeking ratification, and because of our legal limitations, the technical government couldn't propose a law that was necessary, nor was there a parliament that could apply the law, we had to put it off by force, the circumstances had to be delayed after the government was formed. We haven't wasted any time and the technical government has sent a text proposal to Azerbaijan. They returned this contract signed on September 22nd. We signed it, or verified it in the government, and today you have it in front of you. So we didn't waste the least of our time. How much does that amount to? Do the math. It's an extra maybe, 0.5% on these twenty million that would have been withdrawn in the meantime, but on that twenty million, I'm sorry for 60 million, but on the 20 million we would have paid, we would have paid 4% of the interest. So these twenty million would be 3.5% more interest, and the remaining 40 would have 0.5% interest. We can sit down and calculate. I think we actually saved up if we're not late in the end. We can calculate. So the parameters are familiar, we can calculate. The guilt, since no one was able to control the process here and parliament was disbanded, seems to me on the first days of March, and "Serbian Roads" sent the document just a week after that, I don't think they expected the exact date and didn't expect that a legal extension would be necessary, which is why they didn't start it on time. We can also talk about their responsibility. We can discuss the responsibility of everyone, including the weaknesses in supervision, the weaknesses in projecting. Like I said, people save on projecting things, and then it costs us dearly to do the work. I think those are lessons we can agree on. Who exactly is to blame? How do we improve? That's a much more complex question. My proposal, as I said, is that we have one quantity of resources that we can intervene in preparation, work out projects to know what we're funding before we get funding. We have a whole series of projects. You have heard of an example of a project funded by the Russian Federation for Railways 800 million. At the time that loan was granted, no project was completed. Now they're working fast, but it was discussed in 2008, so it was signed in 2012, so today in 2016 they're going to make a big deal out of it. Annex 3.1 is working and signing. So we're not a week late, not two months, but we're years late. My goal is to change that, to know in advance what our priorities are, what projects we plan to set up and the capacity of our institutes. You know very well that people are gone, that people are retired, that the project and project planning institutes are no longer in the state of human resources and technical readiness that they were 20 years ago, unfortunately. Therefore, if we do not do so, it will follow us on every specific project. In this particular project here, we have a situation that was given and deliberately emphasized it is not the result of the agreement of one government, one government has agreed on this project and, as I said, at a time when it agreed on the basis of the information that I have, these were comparable conditions that we received from others. Therefore, there is no reason to believe that the government in February 2012 could have gotten much better conditions, then. Today, yes, but that's the deal. Second, where are we doing the work? If we don't get into what Minister Mihajlovic said about subcontractors and contractors, it's too professional for us to discuss it here. You have the right to request that a congregation task force be formed, that it be checked and that it be a special topic. Based on the documentation we have, they say all of this will be realised long before the deadlines we're looking for for an extension. We're looking together with the Ministry to make the deadline longer so we don't go back to the same topic. In that longer time, we will see and ensure that all of this is done. Do I have assurances beyond what we've been told? We have an annual work plan for Corridors, we have their evaluation plan, we have the realization of this project, but as you can see here, you have the lead performer, you have a bunch of subcontractors, where is the weak link in that chain? It's not that easy to judge. My brother-in-law worked as a supervisory authority for years. The supervisory authority, he has to monitor the project's implementation daily and signal if something doesn't go according to plan. Obviously, here is the legal possibility that the Corridors themselves are doing surveillance did not give mild, adequate warnings. If you look at the World Bank standards, 80% of the project's realisation isn't so bad. The World Bank would always extend the project to you when 80% of the realization was then three months before the first deadline. That's what I'm telling you from the experience of the international. So the projects of this complexity that two months before the end have 80% of the realization that's not bad. The problem is whether these 20% will be achieved within the deadlines and whether that will be all. These are questions that I unfortunately cannot answer based on the information I have. It would be good if Zorana Mihajlovic were here, that she could answer you or make a parliamentary question that they would give an assessment. What I stress here as a finance minister and as an economist, an alternative not to extend or extend for me has no dilemma. The only way to extend here is to have a dilemma, whether or not we should start some more activities to cover these areas of risk, which we have observed in the discussion. That's another question. The alternative for us to pay out of the budget, since the tight interest rates are minor compared to the penalty if we go to the end of the contract. It's something I'd like to avoid. Now we're talking very openly. Therefore, since there is an obligation in the contract for the state to finance everything over 300 million and everything missing if there is a cancellation of these funds, then it is our joint responsibility to say – if we do not extend, then we will most likely have to cover these 62 million to 300 million and all justified unforeseeable works, unwarranted but justified. We have assurances from Minister Mihajlovic that these performers will be an integral part of some future projects and will be interested in ending this in time within the costs and with the quality we accept. So these are the elements of the insurance they offer us, but it's not written. Those are the deals, which I think so far are a good enough guarantee that everything here will be as planned. My impression was that we had a meeting about these problems with company representatives, company directors, representatives of the state of Azerbaijan and the minister and ambassadors, and they assured us that these projects were on track. That firm has a very good reputation for us. Compared to everything else, she does things maximum in time. When they have difficulties, it is not because they have sinned, but because objective unpredictable difficulties have arisen in the realization of projects as you know or because we haven't probed the terrain well enough or because there have been unscheduled circumstances independent of all of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3509	Thank you. Ivana Stojiljković.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3510	I thank the president. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I will once again point out that today we are talking about extending the duration of the loan, and we are not talking about the technical conditions of the projects carried out. We didn't get that kind of report, so we won't be able to discuss it very closely. As for the opposition MPs' remarks, we have heard mostly questions today – why is it now being built, why is it being late, why is the deadline extended and why is the route even like this? We could even hear it from those who were projecting this route at the time. The Democratic Party, of course, and the previous rule headed by the DS, had at least eight years to complete any of these routes and to talk about it equally now, not to open ten kilometers in pre-election campaigns. So we have one situation where the construction of Corridor 10 in 2008. We expected it to take some time, and in 2010, we saw that it was mostly opening and closing public enterprises that should be in charge of this Corridor 10, so in just a year it opened Corridor 10, then "The Ways of Serbia" and then "The highways of Serbia". All these companies have been accused of bad business, but of course no one has ever responded, and highways and corridors have stood. As for this Corridor today, which we are talking about, i.e. the highway for which a 300m-euro loan was taken, is very important because it will connect Romania via Serbia, Montenegro and all the way to Italy. Our country will pass from Belgrade to the border with Montenegro 270km, and this route that we are discussing today is about 40.36, to be precise, and it is a path from Ljiga to Preljina. This has been taken, i.e. the loan has been secured by the Republic of Azerbaijan and we must admit that deadlines have been breached. Azerbaijani company Azvirt is a contractor and has proved to be very correct, because it has given us the opportunity to participate in a higher percentage as subcontractors of our domestic company, which was in principle in our interest when we discussed strengthening our construction industry. So, as many as 101 domestic construction companies worked on this part alone today as subcontractors, suppliers, co-operatives, and there were around 1400s, i.e. between 600 and 1400 direct employees on this project. As far as this highway itself is concerned, I said I had an extremely important time. Of course, we will discuss where and in which direction he will continue. Like I said, the truth is, and we have to admit that it is a broken deadline, for now, for a whole month. We don't run away from it, we admit it, and this authority criticises it, because we wanted to establish a legal state where it is known when there will be deadlines and that such deadlines are respected. Without any desire to defend or attack contractors or subcontractors, this is completely objectively what I'm saying, this is really a difficult one construction site, where it was supposed to drill into just 40 kilometers of five tunnels, and one tunnel is not dug out, but a cross-section is made, 66 bridges, 60 thousand square meters of waterways, 40 waterways regulation, 46 support walls, etc., two loops, three resting places, and not to count. Which is very significant, maybe they don't know people who don't do construction, that rainy seven months in two years can really distract works and lead to these delays of a month. Serbia, of course, gave a chance to domestic construction companies, and later on, when we talk about whether it was answered at the level expected, see if our construction companies have passed this exam and whether it will continue to work. I hope there will be positive answers. That would be my sincere wish, because it's in our best interest for our people to work in the building. So, if we're talking about highways, first of all we should mention that it's a social bloodstream and wherever there's no traffic infrastructure, usually demographically that area dies. The highways lead to strengthening both social and economic development, agriculture, tourism and everything else that is important for citizens to remain in one area. It's a multicultural, multi-economic project. He, as I have already said, will ensure that migration processes stop, stop demographic discharge, and I particularly point out that in terms of eastern and western Serbia, from which I come. Also, traffic safety will increase, which is also important. Today, we have repeatedly mentioned the Ibar highway that passes through western Serbia. Now, speaking of the Ibari Highway, I'm sorry that the Ibari Highway today complained about the bad roads of those who had already had the opportunity to speed up the construction of these highways, among other things, and to influence which route to continue this road. Of course our interest is, I'm from the Goldibor region, specifically coming from Uzic, to continue that highway later from Požega through the Zlatibor County. We have made an effort, unlike the DS members who have then accepted to continue this path through Aryl and Ivanjica, we have even done a comparative analysis and we have not given up, because we believe that the decision where the highway will continue is not simply planning, designing and counting the number of vehicles passing that route is a very complex process that implies that you take into account the natural resources, taking into account both economic and tourism potential, and taking into account the number of people who live there, and the potential population that might come, i.e. to migrate towards that transfer. So it should also be noted that over the past three years, about 100km of highways have been paved. That is why my hope and belief that the competent institutions, the government and the competent ministry will, of course, be taken into account again where this highway, or this corridor, will continue from Požega. As I said, we have done this comparative analysis with all these parameters that I have already mentioned, and we have established that the Zlatibor County is ahead, that it also has an advantage on traffic density and on the number of residents living there and has an advantage over the proximity of borders, and thus migration is made possible for people from Montenegro and Bosnia. Then, the natural, economic and tourist potentials of the Zlatibor County are still slightly larger at this point and perhaps more necessary highway. Also, it matches the route and, here, I come to this financial moment where the planned two corridors would in this case match up to 66 kilometers on the Preljina – Požega – Matkat route, which would save about 80m euros later. There is economic profitability, then investment and ongoing maintenance, which would, of course, be easier in the Zlatibor County. There are a number of reasons why we will, of course, not give up that, regardless of what the project that created the previous government in 2008, we will try, until there is still construction, to change, to simply influence it in any way. If we succeed, it will be our pleasure. Of course, this government has seen the great importance of investment investments, and highways are certainly one of the most important, because the construction of traffic is a profitable branch of the economy and because this loan is also profitable and, of course, we will support the extension of this loan, i.e. the extension of the deadline in the voting day. Thank you. (Balša Bozovic, from town: Replica, mention of DS. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3511	Yes, she did, she said - unlike DS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3512	Thank you, President of the Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, I would agree with Mr Mujovic's findings that we should always measure what is cheaper and what is more favourable for our country. We should always count on how and how to save and get through as well as we can. You're absolutely right when you say it's 0.5% of the 60 of these million, it's about 300,000 euros, a tight interest. That's what we've been trying to make it a minimum cost compared to the March break-up until today.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3513	Are you replicating Minister or Ivani Stojiljkovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3514	I'm only getting attached to...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3515	You cannot discuss now and speak to the minister, only Ivani Stojiljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3516	No, you didn't understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3517	I understand very well. So it's a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3518	I have to explain why it's very important that some projects that last longer than four years...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3519	No, you can replicate, but you know what a replica is. On what Ivana Stojiljkovic said, you are saying the opposite arguments why she is wrong when she says that unlike DS, we have done it and we have done it. You can't talk to a minister, and you're talking to a minister. It can't.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3520	Please, let me finish. It's totally fine if you don't get into my word. Give me back my time, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3521	I will. Here, counting 19 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3522	Thank you. You're very generous. So, a colleague just looked back at what Minister Vujovic said and I, for that reason, highly appreciate that we should always take care of what is cheaper. These 300,000 euros, how much heavy interest we had to pay now, or we're going to pay, we could have saved, because by Article 109. The Constitution, the Law on the National Assembly, in Article 52 of Section 4, states that although the Assembly was disbanded, it was possible to meet if they were bound by a legal deadline or by the state’s needs. So we could save these 300,000 euros, and it's important that we think that way, because these are projects that don't only connect to one mandate, these are projects that last five or ten years. For a wonderful miracle, all projects from Corridor 10, 11, bridges, bypasses began during the DS. That's why it's important to mention that difference between DS and SNS, as the colleague said. For that reason, I volunteered for the replica because I think it's important that after your government these projects continue to be implemented, and these 300,000 we could have saved in accordance with Article 109. The Constitution and the Law on the National Assembly, and we could have been like you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3523	Thank you. The word has Vladimir Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3524	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Minister and Government guests, we have a lot of questions that are not answered because there are simply no ones in the government's explanation, and we are asking them because we want to think freely and critically about information that we do not get, and we need to ratify borrowing. So why are we really late? How do we plan the projects? The fiscal council says - bad at all stages, that's what the report says. Why are we talking about this in an emergency procedure? The explanation that we were given that it was the fact that we had the technical government and the Azerbaijani procedures and the need for ratification just don't satisfy it. Why didn't we predict such things? We haven't been in business with Azerbaijan on this contract since yesterday, we've been in this business for four and a half years. We lost three-and-a-half months in the process of forming a government. Are we too late to blame the performer or the subcontractor? How are public procurements carried out for this project, especially those for unforeseeable work, for example, on the revision of the tunnel, if necessary? Are they going by emergency and non-transparent procedure? Are we late for damage during construction? If so, were these damages secured, of which risks, by international standards or not, were the higher forces included in the coverage or not, were these damages assessed, paid, if any? It's data we don't get. Are the pens arranged to break the deadlines? How much? From who? On what terms? Is there damage of four million euros, as the minister says in the media, or is it not? Are the tunnels controversial or not? We heard there was no surveillance until February. So, the investor, the state, didn't name him. How are the situations received? Who controlled them? Who was checking them out? Who was checking if the work was done by project? So are the tunnels done by project or not? Is it the contractor or the designer, if there's any damage? Does the designer have a secure professional responsibility? Can the damages of that policy be charged, if any? Finally, are we maybe late because of our own expropriations? Is the problem with our administration, in the Catastres, disputes over illegal objects, legalization, slow courts that make it difficult? That's all the things we can't hear. What kind of public registers do we have? Are they the problem, or are we in line or aren't we in order? Yesterday, it was said impossible to list 10,000 plots in Smederev. Why? In the 21st century, the excel, the computer, it's all working. That's information that can be processed relatively quickly, if we have that data. That's very effective. Did we happen to run into any other multi-story oak or any other archaeological site that surprised us? What surprised us all, and how did we plan it? Finally, does the percentage of the use of money correspond to the percentage of the works carried out, if not, why? So, problems in project realization aren't unusual, they happen. It may be that the realization of this project is becoming more or less okay, but there must be bills, in detail. Explanations like this usual we got, with strong form, and without deepening in essence, don't satisfy. Someone has to be responsible. The minister mentioned a weak link he couldn't recognize in the entire chain. Is it possible that the guilty party we are looking for in the party personnel who manage Serbia's corridors? Maybe there's a weak link. It is a shame that by not coming to Minister Mihajlovic, we address these issues to a minister whose portfolio they are mostly not. Thank you, Minister, in any case, for the answers you gave correctly. If these questions remain unanswered, then it is very suspicious how we planned and how we manage projects and how our system is. Then it's a sensation for us when the mayor of Novi Sad opens a fence on the garden of the House of the Army, a bike store, a gas station, in the town of Novi Sad, in which, of course, I, too, as a citizen of Novi Sad, congratulate the award of the title of the city of culture in the 21st century. Let's not do foreign policy here, please. Cultivating relations with countries, including Azerbaijan, is the domain of the Foreign Ministry. These relationships are based on neither personal affinities nor friendships nor love, but exclusively on interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3525	Thank you. The word is Tiana Davidovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3526	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the President-in-Office, honored guests, when the Government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic, took over infrastructure projects in the previous term, found only problems – poor planning, poor project management, unresolved property-legal relations, penals for unrestricted loans and many other problems that they gradually began to solve. A total of 38 laws and 47 regulations were adopted from April 2014 to February 2016. How seriously the government has worked to improve traffic infrastructure tells us the large number of investments we had during that period, and I will list only some of them. Pupinov Bridge, which connects Zemun and Borc with 21.2 km of access traffic, complete project was completed in December 2015. In October 2015, construction of a bridge that connects Ljubovia and Bratunac began. The deadline for completion is November 2017. In 2014, after the May floods, a total of 121 km of roads and 54 bridges were renovated in floods. In 2015, about 200 km of roads, 13 bridges and 88 rinks were renovated. Investment in the recovery of infrastructure that has largely been neglected in the past 20 years has reduced the number of traffic accidents by 839. The number of accidents in 2014 was 35,013, and in 2015, 34,74 accidents occurred. Then, we have investments or building corridors. In 2014, a total of 64.4 km of new traffic was paved, 22.9 km of highway was paved on Corridor 10, and on the E763 highway Belgrade-South Adriatic on the Ub-Lajkovac section was paved by 12.5 km of highway, the Lajkovac loop was made in length of 8.5 km and the Ljig-Preljina section was built 20.5 km of highway. In June 2014, the construction of the stock from Obrenovac to Ub and from Lajkovec to Ljiga in the length of 50.2 km. In 2015, about 100 km of highway was paved, on Corridor 10 – 54.6 km, while on Corridor 11 – 36.5 km. On this corridor were started works on the construction of the bridge on the Sava near Ostružnica in the length of 1,965 m, which will allow the connecting of the shares of Surcin-Obrenovac in the length of 17.6 km. On this route are also made bypasses about 14 km long. In the past two years, 84km of highways have been built, which is more than in the last 30 years. As a result of mutual co-operation on 2 February 2012, a loan agreement was signed between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan to finance the shares of Ljig-Boljkovci-Taovo and Takovo-Preljina at the end of the E763 highway. Under this agreement of 3 May 2012, the Republic of Serbia has at its disposal a 300m-euro loan to build 40km of road, 66 bridges and build a tunnel in the length of 3.624 m. The period of availability of the loan lasted until 4 May 2016 and up until then 80% of the total loan was used. The unused part of the loan is about 60m euros. I am very pleased that successful co-operation with Azerbaijan will continue because the completion of the strategic network of highways will greatly contribute to increasing the competitive advantage of the Republic of Serbia in this part of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3527	Thank you. The word is Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3528	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I can't be surprised at some of their colleagues who don't turn around and look at what they've done to Serbia and how they've led it. Here we have a word about a law that is more technical, one agreement that provides for a certain extension of deadlines and none of the fellow MPs who attack the Government of the Republic of Serbia and this law will say what is indeed true – 80% of the credit has been used, the works are almost 100% completed. Since Serbia is the one to repay the loan, we want 20% of the credit value to be kept as a guarantee that the works that have been done are in accordance with the regulations. What's so controversial about that? When the papers are completed, when the inspections come out, when the permits are needed, then all the money will be paid. And you know it very well, you just won't say it. Because while you were in power, you were giving away money. When you talk about the miles of highways you made that you don't show me again the highway you built? Come on, show me who God please those 40, 50, 60 kilometers you've made every year. In 13 years you've been in power, you've managed to make only one tape of highway from Novi Sad to Belgrade, just one tape. The full profile of the freeway means two lanes. The first one was made during Joseph Broz. This project has been started yet, it seems to me that the minister was Marija Raseta Vukosavljevic, 12.5 years you have been struggling over one lane of highways on the ground which is relatively easy to perform, except for the bridge at Beška, all the plains of Vojvodina, only ground work, no tunnels, no obstacles, no unresolved property-legal relations but that's why it took you 13 years. Another achievement, a colleague who cares about Serbian citizens, will remind them, the Presevo-Vranje highway, what a disgrace and shame, as you have shamed Serbia, as you have ruined and tasked the citizens of Serbia. In the six years of the project you've been running, you've managed to make it by number, letters, whatever you want, six kilometers of highway, six kilometers. Now, those who take care of this loan that has results and you can see that highway, no one can say it doesn't exist, you know what they did with the money for that highway? They gave it to a company that started public works, made those six kilometers, went bankrupt and did not give a bank guarantee. You're uncomfortable now? Well, I hope every time I go through there, I guess the next time I go by there's gonna be some workers and there's gonna be some machines, except for a couple of machines and workers who weren't working on the highway building, but on saving machines, nothing's changed in years. So, in 2012, a month between Belgrade and the Macedonian border, near the Presevo border crossing, was missing 74km of highway. Do you know how much he's missing today? Three-month-old information, probably less now, just 17 kilometers, but full profile of the highway, not one tape, like you did. How did you give it to those who were worried about who was doing the work, how could you just pay off a contractor without taking a bank guarantee? He went into bankruptcy. Who's paying for it? Well, Serbian citizens. Why don't you say so? Where's your tour around Belgrade? After all these years in power, why didn't you finish it? That evil Milosevic left you a bridge, dug the tunnels, just to release one tape, a year ago it started working. Where the hell have you been? The capital. You're talking about highways, so you're still suggesting where these highways are going to be made. Well, let's see. The highway by its categorization is an international road, although you do not have an interstate agreement, where the highway will continue on another country's highway, you have made a appendix. That and the interest you're discussing, I can tell you about the time you were in power, you made an excellent interest of 4%. Now, you can jump all of us around the public debt, around the GDP, about the employment rate, unemployment, etc. There's only one thing that's always denying you, the cost of borrowing the state. She is in debt to private investors, a private investor will not give money on low interest. While you were in power of the interest the state received was 8%. We were giving a guarantee here with 6.5% interest plus the eurobor that was then as one percent. What are you talking about? That's all the data that's easily verifiable. So you're in a situation where we got super credit. Today, that loan would be expensive. But how did you do when you took out your loans? No project documentation, no highway route, no settlement of property legal relations. In a hurry to score political points, you signed international agreements. That's why we had a situation where when you start making something and justify yourself before international lenders, you make a highway through one where property legal relations are solved, and then you find another where you haven't done the expropriation, so skip it, and then you start new papers on the fifth. That's what it looked like. And now they say he's two months late. Well, you've been late for 12 years, and he's late because of a badly found situation on the highway. Questions arise, who will pay for the damage to some tunnels. And what do the "Serb Roads" or the ministry or Serbia have to do with it. Well, that pays for the contractor. Who are you worried about is a subcontractor? Well, that's their bond relationship. Whoever's guilty will bear the costs. Whoever was doing what was wrong will be responsible, but when you talk about travel companies, just to remind you, in 2010, this same Assembly in this room, we agreed on loans of 350m euros for achievements, not settled obligations to travel companies. You've been so worried, people have worked for years, you haven't paid them a dime, and now you're worried about domestic labour. That's what it looked like when you were in power. It now appears that between Belgrade and the border with Macedonia, there is a 15km highway missing, a highway that was being built on a very difficult terrain, that some 17 or 18km to the Bulgarian border is missing and that the section of the highway ends. That's why the prime minister has the right to say that in the last two years he's made more highways, and this government, than you have in 12 years while you've cheered and dressed Serbia. One more thing, we can talk about public debt, whether it's one or the other, whether it's one of these or the other, the methods we can use, you and the other, etc., but ladies and gentlemen, you can't hide the highway and show the citizens if it really doesn't exist. So don't be surprised that in addition to so much concern for pensioners and public sector employees, you make 5.5% in the election. Here you attacked as if Alexander Vukic had come from the opposition, so he does not tell his actions to the citizens. I'll tell you. The result of the elections is also the result of the government run by Aleksandar Vukic, but it is also the result that he did not make the truth better for the citizens, unlike you. I see someone's got a problem with that. That's their problem. They had a chance...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3529	Ambassador, please return to the topic. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3530	I'll be back on the subject. They had a chance to take part in some merits, they missed it, and there's nothing I can do about it. Because the highway exists, because soon it will be released, because with the construction of road infrastructure, Serbia is beginning to be a more serious country for investment than you have left us, certainly in the voting day we will support this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3531	Okay. Let me just consult.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3532	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we may be jumping on your nerves with those 10 billion you've admitted to borrowing Serbia, or the citizens of Serbia, but that's true. What hurts you, believe me, is that citizens feel more about their case of wallets and their refrigerators than you do. When it comes to the loan, we have proved to you that the technical government is responsible and guilty of failing to save 300,000 euros, because simply the government did not know that in Article 109. The Constitution and Article 52. The Law on the National Assembly, the Assembly could meet and avoid that spending of 300,000 euros. Three hundred thousand euros is 36 million dinars. That's enough for 10 municipalities to have school transport for children of primary schools in their territory. I don't think we're spending our resources in a way that's rational. All the projects you started, i.e. a pardon, are projects launched by DS - Corridor 10, Corridor 11, a bypass around Belgrade, the Beška bridge, the Adi bridge access point, which was also built by DS, the Zemun-Borca bridge, and many other projects remained from the previous period. You just keep going where we left off. You haven't done anything new for 10 billion euros. That's what this is about, and citizens don't live better. So the question is, what did you spend that money on?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3533	Thank you. Time. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3534	So all I'm asking for is a replica of these two digits you're repeating here and since you're telling the truth, I need to correct you, so the viewers can hear. So I repeat, since September 2012, when the effective government began to operate, debt data have been published on the site every month, and every citizen can see data, including data on how much part goes to finance the deficit, how much part goes to refinance, what part goes to currencies, what kind of borrowing, how much part goes to increase liquidity, etc. You know exactly what money went to. It is known in the last couple that over the past nine months of this year, instead of the expected additional gross borrowing of billions, a reduced debt of 650 million, and none of this billion is borrowed, because we saved it all up against the plan. That's the information that's relevant. What you're saying is calling for some period in which you left the country in a situation of 5.6 to 6.6% of the deficits that we couldn't reverse in one day, in one month. That's the consequence, you're forcing me to respond to the political, total impasse, including this loan that you signed, your government, which we're correcting today. So you're really exaggerating. We're talking about a contract. It's completely hypocritical to talk about something. Your bill is completely wrong - that we did it, the Azerbaijani wouldn't allow it. If we'd done what you just said, then the intercalary interest from 4 May to 4 November, if it were, would have been 150,000 euros. That's a number five over 12 months times 0.5% interest times 60 million unused. It's the numbers. So intercal interest would be 150,000 euros. If we had withdrawn at that moment 20 million, which was ready, and on November 5th the remaining 40 million interest would have been at 20 million 333 thousand euros, and on not withdrawing 83, that's together, 416. We saved 300 grand. It's a paradox, but it's like that. Check the numbers. Therefore, the figures you are speaking are incorrect. A country that makes a turn and reverses a tendency that was unembarkable with the tendency to increase the deficit, we have control of Serbia entering a debt crisis and a debt of bankruptcy, you are turning into a situation that you interpret as your profit. It's economically unwarranted, incorrectly completely and not based on figures at all. For the last 24 months, we've been constantly improving the situation from month to month. Never has this country, except for one attempt at muscle since 2005, had a surplus that has held for nine months consecutively and which reduces the deficit, the need for gross debt of one billion. It's a huge step forward and it's a huge debt to all those who have entered this by accepting the cost of reform to get out of here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3535	The word is by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. You're giving up? Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3536	Thank you. At the presentation I had, the minister agreed and I am glad that much more detailed reporting is needed, not only about this project, but also about all other projects. It's a shame we didn't have it for this law. What's important, I hope the minister supports us, we'll ask the Minister of Traffic to give us these details. So, how did 238m euros have been spent, to whom did the money go, for which goods and for which works? I hope the minister will also insist that we receive this information, including a contract with the Azvirt contractor from Azerbaijan, to see what the Corridors are, or what the state has agreed on. One problem he mentioned, counterpart Dragan Vesovic, a little earlier in the debate, concerns a few of the things why we say that such contracts, bonding loans with a foreign performer, are really bad for Serbia, and that is to say that the asphalt base they seem to have done has bitumen based on oil brought in from Azerbaijan, and they don't pay taxes, or customs duties on it, and then they sell it to our subcontractors as well as oil. And the question is, is this really happening and what is the damage to the budget, because this is not a neutral thing? And the other thing, they also leased the looks and the separation of "Thovo", from where the rock and the aggregate are made and sold to our subcontractors for 35 euros per metre square, they probably don't pay any taxes and fees. I think it's a clear example of how the state of Serbia is hurting for very bad contracts...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3537	Here, I've extended your time. Thank you. The word of the Messenger of the people is Krsto Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3538	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we heard in previous statements that everything is in the economy and that there is no love, no friendship between countries, and I don't think so. I believe that there are numerous examples that traditional friendship and respect between the two countries are the basis for better economic co-operation and we have seen this example on "Smederevo Irons". I am sure that this traditional friendship between our peoples was too much for the Chinese to come to Serbia and invest. Now we have a conversation about the Azerbaijani state with which we are also traditional friends, and I believe that we will have even better economic co-operation and even better projects with them. This friendship that should be nurtured with these countries often knows to be scales, you know you have investors who often choose between the two cities, between the two states and decide the shades, and it's very important if this shade is respect and respect between our country and another country, in this case from our country and Azerbaijan. We heard today that a parallel was made, too, with a friendly country. A parallel was created between Azerbaijan and the United Arab Emirates. And when I talk about this respect and friendship that is being built and which is very difficult to build, and this government has built many. I have to look back on those details and those elements that try to make those friendships and those bridges, those human bridges spoil. Yesterday we had an example where a statement that China treats workers as slaves could have been very harmful to our country or offensive to our friends and to the people who found themselves here when it was most difficult for us. I'm going to look back at this guy's event, the new spark that happened this morning, which Mrs. Sanda Raskovic quickly threw out of this assembly. It concerns events where she mentioned that a primary school in Novi Pazar changed from Saint Sava to Bin Zaid and left. That's all she said and left. I guess he thinks it's enough to turn out to be a big Serb and not show up anymore. Why do I think this is important? She should have at least said that on that day another school in Novi Pazar that wasn't called Saint Sava was named Saint Sava. She should have said that this area, the Rain Valley, was visited by Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic for the first time in history. For the first time, a prime minister visited that part. She should have said that in the home village of St. Sava, the Serbian government helped build a magnificent temple to St. Savi. She should have known how much the Serbian government invested in infrastructure, schools, diagnostic centres, sports infrastructure in the area, not to throw sparks. She should have known that friendships between Serbs and Bosniaks, Muslims in that part of Serbia, last longer than its political party does. It must be respected and not played with. That's why I think this is very important. Go back to the infrastructure section and try to simplify that criticism about the tunnel story. Someone told us that the tunnels we built couldn't get past the truck. We've proven he can. There will be technical corrections very quickly, but who tells us that these tunnels can't pass the truck today? One whose authorities in those places, therefore, through those hills, were only able to pass a mole during their rule, if it is in good condition. There was nothing else that could have gone through those places. We have another scandalous statement from the DSS, which concerns road stock, more specifically highways and plans for that 77km-long Nis-Medara section, with the idea of it being a project that will contribute to Serbia becoming a regional leader. A gentleman from Mrs. Sande Raskovic's party said, he criticised the prime minister for pushing the project when it is located in that territory that has been drawn by some separatist cards. Look, it's one of the most recent statements and interpretations I've ever heard here in the National Assembly. So, it is recommended that the prime minister respect a map drawn by a separatist and not invest in that part and appear to draw Serbian instruments from there. I think the Prime Minister is doing exactly what we should and where our people should stay and build infrastructure projects and raise the economy. I guess that's why I've never felt safer, but since they stopped watching over us from the DSS. I pray them, that when they didn't already know they were building neither human bridges, nor those infrastructure bridges, that they weren't tearing down those bridges that some others had built. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3539	The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3540	Thank you. Dear President of the Assembly, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic, and I come from the most beautiful municipality in Serbia. It is the municipality of Svrlig, located next to the most beautiful city in Serbia, which is the town of Nis. I will speak today and give support as an MP in front of the United Peasants' Party, but chosen from the SNS list. I will support this agreement with our friends in Azerbaijan, because we are witnessing that the roads in our previous period are in very poor condition, but since 2013, in 2014 there is a great intensity of work in all parts of our Serbia. This part of the road that we give the opportunity to end is very important for the residents, for everyone who works there with a special emphasis on our agricultural producers, for people who will have the opportunity to have faster goods across these roads, to get investors to them. Otherwise, these days, more precisely today and for the next six or seven days, our government will be in Nis. I am pleased that the prime minister at the head of the government, Mr. Vukic, gave an accent on Nis, gave an accent on southeast Serbia and gave an accent on the part where it is very necessary to work, to build. There's also corridor 10, there's all the roads. I come from a municipality where back three months was done part of a regional road in the length of over 25 kilometers. This part of the road is very important for the residents of our municipality, for the residents and others who come there, because the Srljig is a place where there is a future, because Svrjig is a place, as well as other municipalities in southeastern Serbia, where there is a future by building roads, highways. It is very important that people come to us, to have investors come to us and thus provide a future for all of our citizens of Serbia. I have spoken several times in the previous period, and I have always focused on the development of agriculture, the development of villages, but without good roads, there is neither development nor agriculture nor villages. Therefore, this agreement, which will give us the opportunity to complete what started in 2012, is very important for everyone. I, normally, will vote in favour of this agreement as a folk MP in front of the United Peasants' Party, as well as the previous agreements, because I am witnessing how it is done, how there is a future for everyone, but especially I say -- it is very important that all of us living in Serbia put an accent on southeastern Serbia, because there, believe me, it is quite difficult, the elderly population of people, the demographically endangered population. So that's where the investment is supposed to be. I'm sure, Minister, that you're a man of awareness of the situation and I know that you'll be making the most of it for that part of Serbia and for all the agreements and all those laws that will be in the next period, concerning the construction of the infrastructure. I'll vote. I am sure that our Assembly here, and we all have the desire and the will to make all the paths, that the state of Serbia will be everywhere in every part of our beautiful country of Serbia. Once again, I, as an MP, will vote in favour of this agreement in front of the United Peasants Party, because I am sure that we will end everything imagined and everything that has been drawn out and it is my pleasure once again that we enter the process, and here I mean our government, our prime minister and the end of Nis' journey towards Pristina. It's very important to work there. Once again, I call on all MPs to vote in favour of this agreement, to finish what has been started and to be nice and good in all parts of our Serbia, but again, with an emphasis on southeastern Serbia, on the centre of Nis, because believe me there is difficult, there should be investment and once again I thank and will give my support and I will vote for this agreement.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3541	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Daniel Stojadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3542	Dear President, Honorable Ministers, People's MPs, we have had all day to discuss this topic, and I will talk in this address today about the bill to confirm the Agreement on Amendments and Supplements to the Loan Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan for the construction of the shares of Ljig – Bolkovci, Bolkovci – Takovo, and Takovo – Preljina, highway E 763 in the Republic of Serbia. So, we've heard a lot today and the situation is pretty clear. The agreement was signed on 2 February 2012 as a result of Serbia's and Azerbaijan's mutual co-operation and Serbia's strategic position to include Serbia in Corridor 11. Corridor 11 is a major strategic issue for Serbia, and this corridor will benefit Serbia the most, and in a broader sense it will connect Romania, Serbia, Montenegro and the Italian sea route. As a state, we have a strategy to develop the transport of the Republic of Serbia and I would point out that construction of the highway through Serbia is being carried out in accordance with this development strategy. The agreement envisions 300m euros in funding, while the project totals 308m euros. Up to now, 79.5 per cent of the total amount has been realised, which makes this loan very successful, and to make full use of the funds, it is necessary to extend the availability period and therefore, on 22 September of this year, to amend and supplement the agreement, which provides that the funds can be used by May of the following year. Under this agreement, construction of a new highway has also been launched that has contributed to the involvement of domestic construction operations as well as subcontractors and suppliers and co-operatives. The development and improvement of the economy, then the investment of such capital investment raises gross domestic products and enables the development of the economy. And infrastructure projects are just one of the preconditions for a healthy economy. I would like to commend the domestic companies on this occasion, I don't know since we think we can do anything ourselves, I think we should save this little bit of our state-owned companies and what's left and what Minister Vujovic said, and by the way, I would also really like to commend all these presentations and arguments today that I think are quite in place. In the end, the minister has been with us all day, and as you said 70% of the works are Serbia's subcontractors, which means there was a tact to involve our private companies, and that means employed by some 1,000 people, our people and new jobs. How important investment and infrastructure are in some place - I would like to mention an example of the Svilajnac municipality that has been working on its infrastructure for seven, eight years now to achieve some level and now the problem is related to these loans that we are talking about, this bridge on the Great Morava. I suppose most of you came to Svilajnac and knows how much that bridge is causing a problem and it would be good not only for the citizens of Svilajec but for RS at all to provide funds because it is a republican investment, since we have completed projects and expropriation and that, since the previous governments have tried, I hope that this current government will have a hearing about it. By the way, the Svilajnac municipality has achieved the largest surplus in Pomorava County. To get back to our subject. With this project, i.e. with this agreement, we have three good things – new investments, infrastructure development, and the passage of new investors. Then we get even more security in traffic because the construction of the freeway gets rid of the Ibar highway and we hope it will contribute far to greater security. It seems to me that no one has mentioned the demographic issue today, which I believe is the construction of new highways, the merger of Serbia's central to Belgrade, which is of great importance as well. So in the voting day, the SPS parliamentary group will support this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3543	Thank you. The People's MP Jovo Ostojić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3544	Thank you. Mr President, gentlemen, today we have an agreement on amendments to the Agreement on the loan of the Government of the Republic of Serbia as a borrower and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan as a lender for the financing of the construction of the shares of Ljig – Boykovci, Boykovci – Takovo, Takovo – Preljina, highway E 763 in the Republic of Serbia. The agreement was concluded on 2 February 2012. The possibility of amending and supplementing these agreements is provided for in Article 26. The law on the conclusion and execution of international contracts, but Article 25 of Article 2 of the same law also requires the Government of the Republic of Serbia to notify the National Assembly of the execution of international contracts. Shall I say it again? You don't have to. I do not know that such a report on the deal with the government of Azerbaijan has been delivered to the National Assembly. Under that agreement, Serbia is in debt, and the loan funds are transferred to an Azerbaijani company that realises the investment, with subcontractors engaged. It's almost the same situation as the so-called. A Chinese bridge. The loan is 300m euros and the interest is 4%. Those funds shall be made available until 4 May 2016. By May 2016, about 80% of the loans were used. This information is, to say the least, suspicious. They say this ratification is needed to withdraw those 20% and pay off the subcontractors. She's gone in and talking about the temporary and final accounts of the situation, as if the job was complete, and we know it's not. That is not true, nor does it have any effect on this agreement, because this is a financial agreement, not a construction contract. That's why it's good that the finance minister is here. But what about the construction contract? When the minister was supposed to be here, when it was a matter of municipalities, then a minister came here who wasn't well aware of it. Now that we need to talk about road construction, there comes the minister, all the honors, that's for finance. And what do we do for construction? Where's the minister? Is this where she belongs today? There may be some obligations, I'm not going to engage, but it is well known, if this contract is currently of any importance to the completion of the road that we have already stated, its place today was here and it tells us exactly what it is. It's not just the financials. It's about building a road. Let me tell you right now -- it's not true that you started the ratification of this contract, it was initiated by the government of Azerbaijan. You tried to skip it and you tried to put it away, so you didn't know about it. However, Azerbaijan has asked for the ratification of the treaty to pass through both congregations, and that is why this contract is here today ahead of us. We're dealing with facts, and it doesn't occur to us that we're talking about something we don't know. Here with the minister, there are people who know it very well. I'd like to ask now, at the beginning of my presentation, one question I'm interested in. If we are gathered here as MEPs of the Republic of Serbia and she has lived 3. In 06th of this year, it has been repeatedly declared on TV and other rumours that the government is working fully. You knew this stopped. Why didn't you start it right away? Why didn't you get into a deal with Azerbaijan right away? What were you waiting for? You were waiting for the government to form in September, right? Is that what you've been waiting for? Why did you go out and keep saying that the government is working with a full pair? Let's get these two things straight, so we don't lie, to be human. I don't transfer anything to anyone. I'm an MP here in front of the Serbian Radical Party and it's mine to tell the truth. And now I've told you the truth. You know that's true. Don't turn aside from the truth, you have no right to do that. You have to answer honestly and honestly, because I have arguments here, if you start talking like it wouldn't work out. Please, if 240 million and eight million were spent by the Republic of Serbia, it means, it takes 20%, of 300, means 60 million to end the contract and pay off the work. I have information that you want to pay with this money only at the end of the work, not now to supplement, but when it's all over to pay. Look, I've got this information, and I'm telling you, I've got it. I'm clear here, I know how I got the information, and I know it's gotta be true. Why, when building buildings like this are built that are one kind of vessels of every country, including our state of Serbia, which I love, my country, why are you doing everything wrong? It takes three years to prepare the work, and one needs to be carried out. You're on the contrary. You take money without prepared work, and you have no basis to complete it. I don't know if you're interested, but we'll take a simple example. If you take the building of a house, what do you need to build a house? First, what you need is to provide one part of the funds, a draft of a rope location, to get approval that it's building land. Is it true? What do you need to do next? It takes a geometry to get out to give you a map of the location. Is it true? You still need to get a solution so you can connect electricity, water, sewerage, deliver the project, get a building permit and access the works. What did you do before you took credit on these roads? Did you approach anything like that? Do you even do that? I'm sorry I'm telling you, I'm really sorry, you're a man of a whole other profession. This is where it took place for you to sit down, so let's talk, see if all this was done and prepared. Before you started doing the work, did you see where the ice rink was on the ground, to set up support walls? Did you see if the land was sour? You know what that means? It's like flying a plane and saying, "Calm down, we're going down 200 meters." It's a hole. Even on earth, on the roads you build, you have holes. That's where you dig deeper, wider. That might be where you dig five meters. Certain arms are placed, if necessary, and the rods are built on them, only to get up to the surface. Where did you do it on this road? Is it possible that the whole length of the road is all right? Where did you make the gaps in the event of heavy rain, so it wouldn't break your path? You've agreed here before, I've followed you well all the time, so once I showed you with my hand that you're wrong, some things about the construction that they're following at all now, but not at all the construction of our roads, not only the construction of roads, but other construction facilities, there's not enough going to be done, there's not enough preparation. The preparation is more important than the start of construction. When you do good preparation and you shoot the field laserly, and when the stock is marked, when you complete the stock control, means all the way, and when you see where the problem appears on that road, on that section, of a particular type, you will first remove the shortcomings, so when you do it all the length you planned to do this year, you will approach the performance of the works. Unfortunately, as far as I can tell, from the report, from the conversation you were giving answers to and by the MPs, the individual bypassing subject, it was not done. Even at one point, you said yourself that no laser recording was done, that we didn't have it. And why isn't there? You said it. Well, there is now, and I wrote down how you said there isn't, and now you say there is. Please, if we keep building on like this, the rain will always give us roads, we'll have slides and huge costs. You say and we just heard from one MP here – 98% is over. And what's almost 98%? Well, you don't even have 98%. So how's 98% over? Well, you haven't even paid people what they did. You didn't pay. What are you gonna do with these 60 million when you take them? You won't give them to the "Planum" artist. You won't, you know you won't. And I'm asking you what you're going to do with that money, where are you going to direct it? You'll be waiting for time. You shouldn't have let this happen to you, not at all. It's not construction, it has nothing to do with building roads. Mr. Minister, now that you're here, I'm talking to you, look at me, don't look down all the time, I'm looking in your eyes, your eyes are nowhere. When it's six months, you'll find holes in the road. Who's gonna be the one to blame? I'm asking you here in front of the Parliament, in front of all the MPs, and you all know, you drive cars. A new road, six months - a hole in the road. Who's going to be responsible for showing up on the road after six months? Because you didn't prepare the terrain enough, because you didn't see it, you didn't look at it, you didn't do what you needed, so you're going to get holes. You'll also find that your path is narrower than it should be, it's all happening to you. Please, what about the miss? What about the miss? What about the bridges? Here, I'm done, one or two more words. I was just telling you about construction, I just told you about finance. I want you to answer me about the building. When you were supposed to come for finance, you were gone, and now you're here to tell me about the building. I asked you a question about construction. Here and answer. Answer all these questions to me, and I want you to answer to all these MPs here who will be the first to drive that road for why the holes have appeared, and here I am now telling you. Also, I only have one question for you, I'm done. Mr. Chairman, I apologize. Just one more question, I hope you'll be thrilled with this question, I really think. If all this ends now, as said, and 98% is over, an extremely nice question, and you will answer me nicely. Ninety-eight percent is almost, not a little bit, a wall is thrown over, says – the loop at Ljiga is not finished, and these days they are preparing to open the section from Dić to Preljina, and the village of Dici is halfway from Ljiga to the mine. What about the road, Mr. Minister? You have here, as much as I'm in a hurry, I can't make it. You have here from the session of the Finance Committee, I've made a note. You want me to read it to you? You don't want me to say anything anymore. Shall I read it? I told you - we'll talk about construction, I don't want to talk about finance, you're stronger than me. I want to come with you to the mundane on construction. And, you know what, here's what, let me tell you -- is there anyone in the ministry who's bound to work to keep the minister, or does the minister, informed of everything that's going on on the roads? These people, this man is called the Supervisory Board. Do you have that? If you do, why do you allow these things? Why do you allow it? You didn't prepare for this session to talk to the SRS, no. Get ready next time. Get the minister to sit down, and we'll talk openly about road construction. You were asked here about trains, about finances, how the train goes one side, the road is down. We're not gonna talk about it. There's a way to build it. So much for me. I welcome you, as a man and as a minister, and I wish you all the best. I'm done, and thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3545	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3546	I'll answer only those things relating to the responsibility that the finance minister has. So, first about the government's activity or proactiveity, in this case. The response proposed that the government replied, I do not know the exact date when we received the letter from the Serbian Corridor, a request to extend this contract, when they realized that they would not implement projects within the existing deadlines until 4 May 2016. They sent us a letter probably somewhere in March of the month, I don't know exactly, but I do know that here they mention, after initial correspondence at the level of the Minister of Construction and Transport and Infrastructure, the official letter of the Government, which is mentioned here first on 21 April 2016, the second on May 5th 2016 and the third on May 24, 2016, which just happened in the iterations of what one party expects, what the other party expects. These Articles 26 and 25, which you state here, have made it clear that the Azerbaijani expect full ratification of the agreement, i.e. not just a change of date in that one member. Therefore, the idea was that the existing agreement would only change the date and that it would not be subject to ratification, since neither the financing conditions nor the amount of credit nor the service that had already begun were changed. Now, there are rules in every country. With us, the rule was that if neither the obligation nor the amount of the nominal obligation is changed, nor the interest rate, nor the period of payment and payment has already begun, then it does not affect the total or gross or net obligation of the Republic of Serbia, therefore, it does not need to be re-ratification of parliament under our laws. By their laws, it's not like that. They asked to go for ratification, to go for a change by changing only one member, a few words in one member of the whole agreement that is attached here as a complete annex to this amendment of the original agreement. As for all other things concerning the project planning and implementation process, I have been professionally dealing with bone-benefit analysis since 1977, and I know all aspects of economic analysis. I've always had people, from nuclear power plants to hotels and roads, bring me data, and I've been doing analysis. I'm always ready to run an analysis, but it can only be done if you have the data. With us, it seems, for years we've been in a situation where we don't have the data in time. We are, after six months, still in the initial step of preparing a methodology for planning investment projects in Serbia and we are facing strong resistance from key ministries dealing with planning and realising investment projects. We are facing even greater resistance from the European Commission, or the European Integration Office, because everyone thinks they know everything best. The finance ministry with the help of people who have been doing this their whole lives and with the help of international methodology we want to start with big things first, so we're going to come up with these details that you're talking about. We want projects in the identification phase to be analysed first in terms of whether they are in line with what we need, because we have very many projects where we are not sure that this project is on a critical path to Serbia's development, that's the first thing. The second thing, do we have the resources for that and the third thing, is the project ready for implementation. It often happens to us that first we do projects that are not essential priority, secondly, to do projects that have been designed insufficiently, in detail, and thirdly, which are not ready to be realized. So, some projects at some stage of analysis have enough elements to evaluate their so-called effectiveness, i.e. the ability to achieve the goal that they set for themselves and the efficiency to do so with good financial and economic effects and we are committed to it. I'm telling you, we're facing a lot of trouble. I'm an optimist, and I think we're gonna push it out, but we're doing it to create a framework in which we can say, Project One, Two or Five is not ready. Therefore, we will not give him funds from the budget, nor will we resort to the project to ask for funding from international financial organisations, from the budget through a private public partnership or in a third way. So we're on our way to achieving everything that we have today is a weakness. The caves on the road are one of the obvious examples of riding and failings in all these previous things. It's always some pits, it's always some shortages, it's always some bad things. But in many countries in the world, things change by knowing that people are planning and doing it, or by making some legal or political system work to some extent. America is the country where the lawyers take it and sue the state that the road is wrongly designed, so the state pays tens of millions and thus makes them do something. In some other countries, people try to deal with planning, strategy and more. I think we're going to have a hard time waiting for lawyers and judges to push that thing out, but we can put together Parliament and government and all the professional bodies in Serbia to get back at least what we had. Our paths won't be perfect, but at least we can get back to the level we had before that. Now we're making highways, highways very easily can slip away again, they can very easily appear holes, but it happens to others from a variety of gaps. Therefore, my proposal is, I accept your suggestions and objections, I have no wish, even if I knew I wouldn't enter other ministers' domains because it wouldn't be collegiate. We're a team here and this part since this is a financial agreement, the finance minister has full responsibility and I think he needs to understand the essence of what we're changing here. It's just a deadline for withdrawing the funds of this loan. If we were changing again, I wouldn't dare do it on my own, and I wouldn't dare sign these terms today without reviewing and formal negotiations. But since we're only changing the deadline and we're just allowing the funds to withdraw for a little longer, I agree to defend this law as a law that doesn't change anything worse, first of all because the alternative is fatal to us. Given what's been done so far, your doubts about where the money goes I think they're hypertrophied. You know exactly who pays the money here. The money goes to the account, each must ultimately file an account, support the demands of individual parliamentary groups and individuals to improve selectively, but focused reporting on all projects. It's part of our effort to step up investment planning and move on to programming, because it's clear we planned it, we made it happen. If you look at the reports we have here, they're not telling us anything, they're telling us exactly how much roads are done, quality, width, depth of asphalt, whether it's done right, cost analysis. Look out, not just cost analysis. Costs are impulses, an analysis of the results of whether the route is made so that it can drive safely by passengers at the speed prescribed. Will it be safe to drive in winter conditions? Whether it will be all that it takes on that path, it's crucial things. Now, that's supposed to be not only imputes, not just a physical highway, but it's got to be the permeable power of that road, and whether people are going to get from point A to point B. That's the point of the road. It's not the point of spending money and just saying, we've spent so much and so much cement. In addition, analyses in Serbia when highways were being made earlier have shown that in a 20km radius around these roads many access roads and secondary roads have been made. Asphalt appeared from somewhere, and it all happened in Serbia. So you can take a walk and see it. So there's material evidence on the scene of what happened. Maybe people have raised money, maybe they've done it all, but the coincidence happens when big paths are done is very, very interesting. Thank you very much for these suggestions. I think the suggestions are good, but I don't think we can do it with one move and I don't think that the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Transport and Infrastructure and Construction are here, you don't have to interpret it in a way that she underestimates this or anything else. I think she thought the subject of today's meeting wasn't all this, I guess it could have been assumed, but it was actually just an extension of the contract. Well, that's my interpretation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3547	The People's MP Jovo Ostojić has the word. Two more minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3548	Can I ask you a quick question? How do you predict and is it possible that in the future of our country to obtain funds to take stock of the road that will be built in the future, to examine in this way that you and I are talking about tonight, but also the whole assembly, not just the two of us? And that the Government of the Republic of Serbia provides the funds to implement the preparations, and later when preparations are made to take up loans and access work. Thus, the costs would be far less, and the roads would be far better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3549	You can, of course, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3550	That's exactly the essence of my proposal. So, everywhere in the world, there's no saving at that first stage. The stage of identification, the stage where the course is going, the phase of field testing and the interactive change of course according to the findings of this study is crucial. You may know "Friport" to analyze the location of copper in the Bora area and they've been doing it for a very long time with an incredible number of wells, to know exactly where it is, at which depths. We thought we'd tell them, so why do you need so much drilling? Make five times less than or 20 times less. They say -- we want to know exactly plus, minus 5%, not plus, minus 50%, how much there is, what is the quality and everything else. With today's technology, it's done quickly, but it's not cheap. Therefore, my proposal would be to the Assembly to define in the budget the funds that we will very carefully focus on preparing projects, knowing that not everyone will be realised. Today, the ministries don't have that freedom. The ministries when they start spending money on preparing the project, their sole goal is to make it happen because otherwise it's a loss for them. I say - let's make one fund from which we know that five to ten projects will be realised and at budget level we absorb that cost, of course we spend every penny that goes to and who does it, but we minimize the risk. So these are things that have been recognized and there have been a lot of ideas here and about the unfair position of our companies. I talked about it on this Berlin initiative already and these hear from Europe, although there are no answers yet, they hear, they realize that our companies are rightly upset, that they do not have access to projects in their own country. That's what Johannes Han said, offered, says – so you have this Balkan initiative, etc. I say - but they don't have access either. So today we have heard a lot of useful initiatives to test all modes, funding modes and all ways. But in order to do that, we have to work together, not to let small stakeholders abuse the lack of capacity at our expense. That's the point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3551	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Danica Bukvić.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3552	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the agreement we are talking about today is in a strategic sense very important to our country. I recall that the loan agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as a borrower, and the Government of Azerbaijan, as a lender, was signed in Baku on 2 February 2012 with a period of availability of 48 months, i.e. until 4 May 2016. The amount Azerbaijan approved Serbia, then, was 300m euros. Taking into account the fact that around 80% of this loan has been used during the period of availability, i.e. the last four years, and that it is very important for Serbia to complete this significant infrastructure project, without which regional development would certainly be slowed, especially in the western part of Serbia, it is necessary to extend the period of availability of loans, which is foreseen by this draft law on changes and additions to the Loan Agreement. In this way, the appropriations will be used in full and will allow for the rapid completion of Corridor 11. Corridor 11, or future Belgrade-South Adriatic highway, whose share is the subject of this agreement, is the direction which has economic significance, as it will allow better traffic integration, greater transit, and thus a larger foreign exchange inflow. The construction of this route establishes an efficient national traffic infrastructure, and also restores the importance of our country in the transnational traffic network, as well as in European, as this route will also benefit Romania, Serbia, Montenegro, Italy. For the Lazarec municipality, from which I come, this traffic route also has great importance for both traffic and business. Even though there is no direct involvement of Lazarevec on the highway, the speed of the connection will allow discharging, i.e. reducing the load of very problematic and overloaded Ibar highways. We are witnessing, unfortunately, almost daily, car accidents in which many lives are lost and which produce enormous material damage. The SPS parliamentary group is also giving strong support to the government of the Republic of Serbia on this occasion, as it is a project whose realisation will greatly contribute to the country's faster regional development and thus to the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. I would like to point out that our political group also supported this agreement in 2012 when it was adopted, and in the day for the vote we will certainly support the amendments and additions to the Azerbaijan Agreement because of its overall economic, economic and geostrategic importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3553	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. You've got nine minutes from the MP's time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3554	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this day-to-day act has simply been extorted for the reason that by delaying work on the corridor of the highway, we have come into a situation that, at the request of the Azerbaijani Government, we must ratify this agreement for a new period of two years. What's interesting about a contract like this? First of all, this agreement when it was signed was a major turning point in the way of thinking and the way in which the previous government acted. The agreement has always insisted that the funds needed for the development of infrastructure in Serbia are usually asked by EU financial organisations or the World Bank. In part, it worked. The reminders for, when it came to the reconstruction of Corridor 10, the highway, specifically, Belgrade-Nish did not complain by the World Bank, or the EU to approve the funds, not because the EU was then unreservedly supporting the five-octobarian revolution and power that came at the time, but because they had pre-calculated that these funds would be spent, that the effect expected by Serbia would not be achieved in just fine terms, on multiple sides of the multiple benefits. The European Union, i.e. the World Bank, was crediting to change the new layers of asphalt. These layers of asphalt at the time were done by criminogenic or criminal circles that were close to power and you couldn't simply pull a line that would separate those who were changing asphalt from those who under the auspices of the government were giving them the same jobs. All that remains is that these loans, which were initially advocated by the authorities, as a grant aid, are now returning Serbia under very, very unfavourable conditions. And when applied for the funds for this corridor, the authorities thought that the World Bank would be eager to invest, to grant a loan to make economically profitable investment very, very quickly paid to Serbia, especially the World Bank. However, they have disobeyed one warning that we Serbian radicals have highlighted, which is that when it comes to the EU's interest, the global interest, they are ready to help always, with their interest clearly indicated. When it comes to the national, economic, strategic interest of Serbia, there is no dilemma, the EU is turning its back and has shown on this highway project that the EU and the World Bank are not coming to mind, regardless of all economically relevant indicators indicating that this is one of the most profitable investments in this region. One of the indicators that is very important for investment is the frequency of traffic on a particular traffic station, i.e. on a specific road. On this traffic station, per day, the frequency is 20,000 vehicles. By all standards, generally accepted, it counts if it's more than 16 thousand, or 16 thousand, it's a very, very profitable investment. You know very well, you who sit here so that this investment is not only kept in toll collection, but its profitability is contained in what is viewed in all auxiliary facilities, from catering, from gas stations, from all that, where the state incomes not small funds. This highway, from all these economic aspects, was very important. In order for the World Bank to follow that, it was only missing that there was no national note or dimension of building this highway. What's the national note and dimension? It connects one people living in Serbia-Montenegro. It's a sine for Serbia. Serbia is taking this traffic to sea. It has always been and remained the strategic interest of Serbia. And what happened? It just happened that they didn't want to talk about it and there was a possibility. The Azerbaijani government has shown good will, under allegations, to enter the credit line into an investment highway from Belgrade to Montenegro. Why is this so interesting? It's interesting that in this way it was clearly shown that on the other hand we have someone interested in supporting economically justified investments, so we had an example of the Michael Pupin Bridge, where a Chinese investor appeared, clearly pointing out what his interest was, and how much it meant to us. There was always controversy in the public, especially among political actors whether it could have been better, if it could have been cheaper. But what is inadmissible is that in recent years those in power in Serbia, who are deeply in charge of certain ministries, have allowed themselves this luxury that they are not only discussing whether there is more favourable, whether there is an alternative that is better for Serbia, but whether it is useful for Serbia at all and whether the Serbian government should engage in such investments. And this is the best example. The resolution minister, in every way possible, crossing this corridor, tried or tried, however you want to read or watch, to make an obstruction. When it came to the final stage of one share, which is the share from Ljig to Preljina, then it is clear by using media manipulations to try to discredit, not only the lender, but also the bearer of this investment, in public, by revealing the untrue information that tunnels are a problem in the coming period, because of their height, or level, will not be able to operate traffic. This is characteristic, I stress, for the minister. Remember only when it was headed by the Ministry of Energy and Ecology, Serbia had the biggest objections in the field of ecology based on the European Community's remarks. In energy, she personally participated in obstructing the construction of the "South Stream", which is important, crucial, crucial, vital to Serbia, the "South Stream" is a highway pipeline that is also needed by Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3555	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3556	Dear fellow Members of the People, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, with your associates, I would first of all like to express my gratitude to Mr. Vujovic, who has said one word that has always been answered in the Serbian Movement of Dveri political programme, and I am glad that it has been confirmed from such a high ministerial post. I don't know if I'm going to quote it exactly, but he did say from an opportunity -- our companies are upset, our domestic companies are upset, because they can't even realize that they're involved in competitions in their own country, or in some way they're discriminated against, disabled, placed in another way and in any other way discriminated against in their own country, in a race with foreign banks, multinational companies, international monetary funds and any other form of monopoly that has ruled over our country by foreigners. Thank you, Mr. Minister, for that, it is an important recognition for Serbia and I hope that an important sobering for the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which in the coming period will put a much greater emphasis on domestic economy, on the domestic economy and put it first, that is, on the interests of foreigners and foreign monopolies in Serbia, who have ruled not only domestic banking, trade, but also here as we see many other segments of our society. Also, I thank Mr. Minister, for choosing, I would say a better thing today to be here with us, not to participate in this reality show, under the new name "low barracks" that started today in Nis and that fits into these reality programs that we talked about yesterday. However, unlike him, obviously the reality show loves much more than Minister Mihajlovic, who instead of being here today to answer all these questions, chose to be a reality in Nis. She was actually much more responsible to answer all of our questions here tonight. What are all our questions here? Here's a short cut for today. What is undoubtedly stated here is that the interest of the Republic of Azerbaijan is absolutely protected by this loan agreement. And what are all the problems of our contract party? The problem is the very way of funding in which obviously we haven't well protected our economic interest. The problem is the quality of the works, I guess we all admit it, we all see it, and we all get it. The problem is professional surveillance, the biggest problem of Serbian urbanism, Serbian construction, Serbian inspection supervision, unprofessional surveillance, the absence of supervision and at all one catastrophic inspection, supervisory and professional policy for all performances of infrastructure works in Serbia. It's also on this expensive and important project just amazing that we can hear a minister telling us there was no surveillance, or we didn't even call a surveillance competition or we didn't set up a supervisory authority. For 300m euros, you have not set up a supervisory authority. In 30 centimeters, you have a larger layer of asphalt. Wait, guys, is that possible? Is it possible that someone in this country is not doing a supervisory inspection job on a capital infrastructure project like this? The deadlines, the delays in the deadlines, what is the representation of domestic goods and services and what is, of course, also the cancer of the wounds of all our major capital investments in Serbia, and these are the final accounts that show just how much it cost, is it paid to the end, and who is all there and how much has been installed? So, a lot of things we could see here today, a lot of things surfaced. We also see the continuity of saying, the wrong work from previous to this government, and that's what I think is one finding. We've heard that in his time, someone has paved and taken off the cock, and we know that today someone is also hearing that he is asphalting and removing the cock from both of these authorities and the fact is that in Serbia one must come to an end. In Serbia, I cannot pave the way for party friends, godfathers, friends, relatives or I don't know what kind of criminal groups that have been said about here today, but should be paved by professionals, making firms that are involved in this, rather than actually having parties pave the way for Serbia, both locally and at regional and national level. There's been a lot of important stuff coming up here today. Once again, I thank Mr. Minister for helping us identify the key cancer of our society's wounds.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3557	Thank you. You've wasted your time. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3558	Thank you. I point out the violation of a 107 member who speaks of the dignity of the National Assembly. I think dignity is hurt because it is said that Minister Mihajlovic is in some sort of reality show. Ms. Mihajlovic, along with all the ministers in the Serbian government, except for Mr. Dusan Vujovic, who is with us all day, is in Nis where the government held a joint session with all the heads of four districts from southern Serbia and all the presidents of the municipalities and mayors of southern Serbia where a decision was made to sign a new contract with the Leoni factory that would include 2200 new jobs. With an Aster Textile contract of 500 new jobs, 1,000 new jobs in Juuri and in Vladica Han, Turkey's Teklas intends to open another hall. It's that reality show that our political opponents are talking about. It's not a reality show for us, it's the economic recovery of southern Serbia. I'm not asking for a statement from the Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3559	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3560	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's hard to find smart answers to unwise questions. From 2000 to 2012 112km of highways were built in Serbia. One part of it was just another tape. Let's say, the thing about the New Sad and the Subotics. In 2013 only in a year and something stronger was built 51 km. In 2014, the Council adopted Decisions (EU) 2015/74 of 22 July 2015 on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Union and the European Union and the European Union on the European Economic Community, I'd be happy if we peasants ran the country from 2000 to 2012. Maybe we're farmers. Maybe we're not enough charmers. Maybe we're not company enough. Maybe we don't have 35,000-euro watches. We may not have a collection of clocks from 15,000 to 35,000 euros, but we have dedication, faith, meaning, we are ready for work and effort. If we were in charge, we'd be borrowing someone else's money today. We wouldn't need a loan. We used to lend to Serbia. These over-runs gave Serbia a loan during their reigning period. It's hard to talk today when someone who led the state in the way he did and made this contract today has objections. Someone who's made 12 miles of roads in ten years has objections to those who do it in a year. The government makes reality. Yes, the government let one reality the night the election results were determined. The candidates from the electoral lists were not allowed to attend the election committee's session. There were 10 of them. Executive Authority, the government paying the election and guaranteeing public order and peace allowed this reality instead of arresting the candidates, especially to pay attention to the person representing himself as an adviser to the US Embassy. The government didn't do it even though it was wrong somewhere, and it was wrong because she didn't bring in an American Embassy advisor who was also a candidate and a company and thanks to that reality, some of them are sitting here in the Assembly today. If the government is responsible for some reality, then it's responsible for that. Then we heard the one from India, capable and successful who insists on deadlines. Let me remind him a little bit. It began to build a spa in Indjia in 2004, fell out of power in 2016, did not move further away from the cornerstone. So much for deadlines. In 2008, the same one, and you certainly remember, started IT park, and this Bill Gejc, he best understands these IT technologies, for 25,000 employees. I think it was Indian supposed to be Indian. He was never there. You remember all the beautiful ones of your universe when you were putting in a nice place, which was held in 2009. At the party's fame a year earlier, in 2008 works in India for the construction of a hall that was scheduled to be released into operation in July of next year and to be held in the university. After leaving power in 2016, the hall is not yet finished, by a little ton, the constant pumps have to work because it was created at the water source and is causing additional problems. The same asks about the cost of installers, sues the Indji municipality, although it was some firm of the former regime's party, for 440 million. The debt left there is 2,100 billion, and today we heard this over-the-counter, capable, successful how he resents and talks about interest and deadlines. Gentlemen, how many foams have they been since 2008 for withdrawing loans until 2013? So 2.06 million, 2.13 – 2010, 2011 – 4.47 million, 2012 – 5.57m euros, 2013 – 7.73m. A total of 22 million pens for loans that were not realised by the government at the time... Of course you know that well. I'd be happy if you were the one for those debts you pulled made the source of your debt back. We peasants when we're in charge, if we're taking out a loan and a loan, and I have to say, the minister knows that there are differences between loans and loans, that when they're talking about the loan, that this is about the loan, how much the country is devastated from 2000 to 2012. She was destroyed completely, broke, politically decapitated. Credits were taken at 9% interest and I'd be happy if you'd left us a less-debted country. If you had missed that money through agriculture, we would have lost half of our 10 billion euros less. The main problem is you didn't make the export to pay off the debt. You haven't made Corridor 10 and you think it's your fault that you haven't made it, and where the revenues are that it's over that would be around 170m euros higher, toll revenue. Where's that lost profit on Corridor 10 that you haven't finished in 12 years? If you'd worked on the cavalry, if you'd worked with the ox, you could have finished that Corridor 10 in 12 years. You didn't finish it. The field path to the field costs us a thousand tolls a day for 20 euros. How much money was lost just on the tow truck just because there was no highway to be built. We're talking about extending the deadlines here now. You've made from field to field. That you've made it functional every day, a thousand tolls per 20 euros is 20,000 euros. That's 600,000 a month, and seven million a year plus 30,000 or 25,000 vehicles at a far lower price than, say, 2 euros per vehicle. What's the loss? Your route from field and field to field costs us one 20m euros a year, at least today you're talking about 100,000 euros, 300,000 euros of foam to pay. Ducic told some of the people there that they were the bravest in the world, and I'm going to say that about some party. The former regime's party was the bravest in the world not because it's not afraid of anything but because it's not ashamed of anything. Thank you. (Bosko Obradović, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3561	There's no replica. He didn't mention you. He mentioned Indjia, and you're not from Indjia, you're from Chuck. I can't even give you a replica based on that. (Bosko Obradovic, from town: He talked about a member of the Election Commission. You are not a member of the Electoral Commission. You can't do that. Don't brag about it. Who's got time left to sign up. The word is Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3562	Thank you, President of the Assembly. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, honourable citizens, there's really no need to end any anger, we've talked nicely today, and I think we've had good arguments. We had, of course, a remark on why Zorana Mihajlovic, instead of sitting at the government meeting, is why she is not in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because I think most of these things refer to those who run the projects. If I were you, Mr. Vujovic, I wouldn't really be angry if I wasn't right. On several occasions, you also mentioned Aleksandra Jerkov that because of the inability, or disbanding parliament, you were unable to ratify what we were asked for, so we paid a tight interest of 300,000 euros. There's no need to be angry with me for telling you that by the Constitution and the Law on the National Assembly, you could have done it. Oh, my God, that's not the first or the last mistake you've made. So, 36 million dinars, what, 300 000 euros is about, is for seven or eight local self-government enough for children with buses to be safely and neatly transported from their places, houses, villages to the center of municipalities, where they are mostly placed in schools. I think the money's lost, and now for spilled milk they say you don't need to cry, but in any case, let's teach you for some next time, not to talk about some financial consolidations often, and on the other hand that we spend money this way. I think that, as far as investment is concerned, it is more than clear that both Corridor 10 and Corridor 11 and the bypass around Belgrade and access to the bridge on Ada and the Zemun-Borca Bridge are projects created during the DS. It's just saying that it's not enough just for four or five years to end them. So these projects continue today you and I are glad about it, because we really hope that you will be able to finish them, although Corridor 11 is late because, as you said, of the technical government. The prime minister assured us he wouldn't be late for the election of any projects, and here it turns out that's not true either. Turns out the election just affected the delay of this project. I think it is very important that we underline once again that you confessed at today's session, that is to say the truth, and thank you for Serbia's 10 billion in debt. You said we paid them back 600 million. So, 9.4 billion you said the debt was stuck to the 14.8 of 2012. How can I tell you, we've been saying that all along. The Prime Minister and you have assured us that this is not the case, and today we have found that this is the case. What we're interested in is what money was spent on, and why aren't citizens feeling any better? Ten billion is not small money for Serbia. On the contrary, it's a lot of serious money, and citizens don't feel absolutely any better. The young leave Serbia because they have no business here. Scientists flee this country because they cannot bind their future to this country. When it comes to a 300-million-dollar loan, of course we should now extend and declare all of this for a simple reason, which would lead to everything else, and you said yourself, financial collapse, because we would pay a lot more, and this is much cheaper for us. And that loan was signed by the Democratic Party government and we're proud of it. We're not proud of your late work. We are not proud that this loan has a significant impact on the work on Corridor 11 and on what Mrs. Zorana Mihajlovic is doing. There's been an affair over those tunnels. An affair has taken place because we do not know, because investors who have not called Serbia's corridors for supervision have been monitoring themselves. That under the Law of Planning and Construction simply, gentlemen, is not possible. Who knows which time you wronged yourself about the law you brought yourself. So, we don't know if it's a subcontractor's fault, a domestic company, so far no one's objected to them, 20 years of doing business in Russia...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3563	Thank you. You've wasted your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3564	Let me just finish one more sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3565	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3566	Can I finish my sentence?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3567	No, I don't. You've got more seconds. You're done. The word is Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3568	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, respected citizens of Serbia, today we've heard a lot from the minister about this law. The interesting part was when the minister spoke of the law here supporting it because it practically only extends its duration for two years, not because the agreement behind it itself is fundamentally good for Serbia. Also, we agreed that the big problem in planning and later in reporting is and that the problem in Serbia is going on for a very, very long time and that we would have to go somewhere on a concrete project to change it. So we have accurate reports of what the money was spent on. Let's say, in this particular case, this is a very harmful contract for the Republic of Serbia, for our interests, and a very good deal for Azerbaijan, and I don't think anyone should say that they're proud that this contract is signed, because it's really bad. So, 238 euros was spent on various construction works, on services, on goods. We need an analysis of that money. So, where did that money go? Who got the money? Is there any respect for the contract provision that says that 49%, at least 49% of goods and services must come from Serbia? It's something where the minister might be able to help. Unfortunately, here he took over the role of the entire government even though he himself said it wasn't his building resort, but it represents the entire government, so the construction part, i.e. the Ministry of Transport, must be, because the minister didn't come. I heard an explanation that she didn't think we were gonna talk about this part. With her political experience, she must have known that we were going to talk about the whole contract, especially because of the controversy that came out in public, so I can only interpret that she avoided coming here and leaving the finance minister at large, so he couldn't answer the questions he was getting. It seems the minister himself has the same questions. So our question here is to extract all relevant information so that, if anything, on this particular case, we can learn something for the future. To learn where mistakes have been made, so that these mistakes do not repeat them. In this case, we have a situation where a commercial contract with a contractor, Azvirt, who is an Azerbaijani company, was signed under a loan agreement, so that no practically negotiated contract with an Azerbaijani contractor, but negotiated a loan, and under the loan agreement it was underlined that the performer must be “Azvirt”. So, in fact, the foreign company was in an extremely privileged position, because afterwards it could negotiate with the corridors that made the contract with it. On the other hand, she could negotiate with our subcontractors and impose the terms of the contract on them, because it was not regulated in the agreement, nor was it taken into account. It's obvious that the project is very poorly prepared and the minister himself says that we have to change it, that our projects are very badly prepared. He also said what is a fact and what our entire construction industry knows, that our construction firms do not have the opportunity to participate in projects in Serbia without speaking abroad, because conditions do not allow them. In this case, I don't see any reason why it would be that way, because, as far as we know, this is a matter for the minister of traffic, and I think the finance minister himself could ask her that. The company Azvirt does not have employees in Serbia at all, there is no mechanism either. All employees come from our companies, all the machinery comes from our companies and our companies make tunnels. So, in fact, what this whole structure looks like, this company "Azvirt" just collects a kamak. To see how the kamak is gathering, counterpart Dragan Vesovic first asked those questions and I think the minister could help us get answers from the ministry of traffic. It is that, since Azvirt is obviously exempt from all taxes, customs duties, fees and taxis, it imports oil from Azerbaijan without customs duties, without VAT, without excise duties, without any charges, and then reselling that oil to subcontractors. I'd like to see if this is true. Because, as the minister said, this would be neutral in the Republic of Serbia if "Azvirt" that oil imports from Azerbaijan, without compensation, taxis and taxes, at the same price or with a small stamp, would sell further. However, it does not, but sells to subcontractors at market prices. That's the part that really makes a big difference and the possibility of getting money out of this project. The second part concerns a shredded stone aggregate from the Takovo separation, which is also sold at 35 euros per metre to square subcontractors. So, in the subcontractor forest, obviously...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3569	Thank you. You're out of time. Thank you. Stefana Miladanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3570	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister, first of all, thank you for your patience and commitment to this subject today. We had a lot of opportunities to hear today. Many MPs came out of the topic, or should I say they had one broader approach to this topic. Unlike most opposition members, the SPS does not consider this agreement harmful to the state. Also, I would repeat what I said today in the opening statement, and that is -- had it not been for the signing of this agreement, that the Belgrade-South Adriatic highway construction project itself would not have started. What I would also point out, in fact, is what you confirmed during the discussion today, that not only is it not harmful, but such an agreement, which was signed at the time it was signed, was only correct and possible, given that Corridor 11 has not yet received European importance, because in order to gain European importance, it must also be recognised by European institutions. Therefore, thank you and I hope that in the coming period we will certainly find new forms of lending and financing of those infrastructure projects that will help Serbia develop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3571	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3572	Dear Madam President, the dignity of the National Assembly has been violated because Mr Radulovic said it was a commercial contract. It is not a commercial contract, it is an international contract concluded between the two governments, which is subject to ratification in both national parliaments. As for the government of the Republic of Serbia, which Mr Radulovic is so negatively expressing, it is the same government that he was in and out of because he was doing the opposite of the government's policy and concept. As far as domestic companies and domestic contractors are concerned, all the gatherings that have yelled against the project "Belgrade on Water" forget one fact – the main contractor of "Belgrade on Water" is the domestic company Energoproject. So, the home company Energo project. Then they're talking about how domestic companies have been neglected. That's just not true. The contract is good, and the road will be completed, that is, this share of the road, by the end of October. Just one more sentence, that trip hasn't been over in the last 70 years. The deadline has been broken, that is correct, but this share of roads will be completed by the end of October and Serbian citizens living in this part of our country will have the opportunity to drive on a new, quality and good highway.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3573	The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3574	I think you've injured members 103 and 104. Rules of Procedure. It is not clear on what basis Mr. Martinovic was given the word after I was spoken by a colleague from the SPS, so I do not know if you gave him a replica of what she was saying or if you gave him an injury to the Rules of Procedure after my speech and after my fellow SPS, or if this is a replica within the infringement of the Rules of Procedure, for which you are constantly speaking at the meetings of this Assembly that is not allowed, but it seems to be allowed to Mr. Martinovic and to get word over the order without any grounds and then still use it for replication. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3575	Thank you. Katarina Rakic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3576	Thank you. Here, we heard a lot of things here today. We heard that the minister attacked the tunnel, that the minister attacked the oak, that because of all this she was not allowed to come here to parliament and defend this law. Then we heard that this project wasn't actually implemented by this government, but that it was realized by the unprepared government, and that now we're just talking and just boasting. Then we heard that this government stopped building South Stream. We've heard a lot, and a lot of things aren't true. I honestly want to believe that many of my opposition colleagues are actually saying all this just to say something because they have a need, they have an obligation to say something, because if something like that isn't true, then it's very serious if it's something else. Of course this isn't a commercial agreement, of course this isn't a lex specialis, of course it's not an authentic interpretation, but right now it's already about the elemental ignorance of what is supposed to be someone who's a MP. Today we have a loan agreement, a financial agreement, so it's really quite logical to defend it by the finance minister. Today was not the work of the Ministry of Construction, Infrastructure and Traffic. You can get a report on the ministry's work at the board's meetings every three months. You get this report quarterly. There's nothing secret or hidden in it. The minister comes to parliament every time she has to defend the law from her area. Today was the agenda of the loan agreement, the financial agreement. So, there were many of my colleagues who deliberately or accidentally made a mistake. Once again, I will underline, as far as the law itself is concerned, that it is very important to vote it out as soon as possible, in order for the job to be finished, so that 20% of the remaining money will be withdrawn and the works on the Ljig-Preljina road will end. Of course, the money invested in infrastructure is something that goes back a lot to the citizens, primarily through tourism, through traffic, and above all through agriculture. I repeat what I said at the beginning, in just three years, this government did 84km of highways, something they had failed to do in 30 years together. The plan is to build another 106km of highway. In addition, I will only repeat that much has been done on the railways, on the national company, that we have made great progress on the Duing Business List, so indeed all comments from those who have commented today that this government is not doing well are bad and are certainly not in place. I really call on my colleagues to vote for this law, and certainly as that proverb says, there will always be someone on the road who will throw stones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-13-0.u3577	Thank you. On the basis of Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I conclude a unique search of the bill. Since we have completed the debate on the 1, 2nd and 3rd points of the agenda of this session, I remind you of the provision of Article 87(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, according to which the President of the National Assembly can determine that the day for voting on a bill will be right after the examination of the bill is completed. Therefore, in accordance with this provision, I hereby determine Friday, 14 October 2016, starting at 11.00 a.m., as the Day of Vote on the first three agendas of this session, and this is: The selection of members of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, from the list of candidates submitted by the authorised applicants, the Proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 6. Law on the acquisition of property rights on land, buildings and lines of the Business Society for the Production and Processing of Steels Željara Smederevo d.o.o. Smederevo (the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia), No. 15/16, and Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Exchanges and Supplements between the Government of the Republic of Serbia as a Borrower and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan as a lender for the financing of the construction of shares of Ljig-Boljkovci, Boljkovci-Taovo and Takovo-Preljina highway E-763 in the Republic of Serbia since 2 February 2012. Goodbye. I'll see you tomorrow at 11:00 at the vote. Thank you, Minister and his associates. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 158 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 152 MPs are present in the hall and that we have conditions for today's work. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented today from attending the next MPs: Vladimir Marinkovic and Muamer Bačevac. We continue our work and move on to the vote on the 1st item of the agenda, which is the selection of members of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media from the list of candidates submitted by authorised applicants. I remind you, the Law on Electronic Media found that each authorised candidate for members of the Council proposes a list of two candidates, and the National Assembly selects one member from each list. We're moving on to a decision. We approach the vote on candidates for the election of a member of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media on the proposal of an association whose aims are to achieve freedom of expression and protection of children. Candidates for the election of a member of the Council on the proposal for an association, whose aims are to achieve freedom of expression and protection of children: Milan Antonijević and Snezana Stojanović Plassic. A member of the Council has been elected a candidate who gets most votes from all MPs. I put the motion to elect Milan Antonijevic as a member of the Council. Here you go. I'm putting the motion to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 26, against – four, with abstention – two, 141 MPs did not vote. I put the motion to vote, to elect Snezana Stojanović Plassic as a member of the Council. Here you go. I'm putting the motion to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – 15, with abstention – two, voted 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen none of the proposed candidates, starting with the number of votes received. We approach the vote on candidates for the election of a member of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media on the proposal of an association of electronic media publishers and journalists' association in the Republic of Serbia. The candidates are Biljana Ratkovic Krajina and Goran Pekovic. I am putting on a motion to elect Biljana Ratkovic to be a member of the Council. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – 13, with abstention – two, 158 MPs did not vote. I am voting on a proposal to elect candidate Goran Pekovic as a member of the Council. Please do not disturb the vote, it is not the custom to disturb the vote, but after the results have been announced. Please just be quiet, we never had this during the vote, so please don't disturb the course of voting. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 135, against – 14, abstention – three, 22 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly, starting with the number of votes received as a member of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, has chosen candidate Goran Pekovic as an association of electronic media publishers and journalists' associations in the Republic of Serbia. We approach the vote on candidates for the election of one member of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media on the proposal of the competent committee of the AP Vojvodina Group. The candidates are Sinisa Isakov and Djordje Bozarevic. I am voting on a proposal to elect candidate Sinisha Isakov as a member of the Council. Here you go. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, v – 14, abstention – two, the 146 MPs did not vote. I would like to put the motion to be a candidate for Council member, Djordje Bozarevic. Please make a statement. It's hard for me to hold a vote in this kind of noise, and it's really hard for me to throw it away, and it's really hard to work here. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 135, against – 16, the abstentions – no, 24 MPs did not vote. I ask all MPs for some attention. I find that the National Assembly, starting with the number of votes received as a member of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, has chosen candidate Djordz Bozarevic on a proposal from the competent board of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. Since we have completed the vote and elected members of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media from the list of candidates who have submitted the mandated proposals, allow them to congratulate them on your choice and on my behalf and wish them success in the work. It's the custom to tap now, not before the vote, but we can change customs, it's not a problem. Second act. I put to the vote the Proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 6. Law on the acquisition of property rights on land, buildings and lines of the Business Society for the Production and Processing of Steels Željzare Smederevo d.o.o. Smederevo, (the RS Official Messenger, number 15/16), in general. I'm asking the MP's group enough not to disturb the course of voting and keep their emotions for later. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 150, v – 22, with five abstentions, eight MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for authentic interpretation. Moving to point 3. I am voting on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Amendments and Supplements to the Loan Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as a borrower and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan, as a lender for the financing of the construction of the shares of Ljig – Bolkovci, Bolkovci – Takovo and Takovo – Preljina, highway E-763 in the Republic of Serbia, as of 2 February 2012, in general. No, you don't have to touch it, but for, we didn't bring in the approval tap. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 164, v – 14, abstention – two, five MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. Thank you. We finished work today. We will continue Tuesday at 10.00 a.m. on the next item of the agenda. Thank you.
