ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u48949	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that 95 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the adoption of the Charter and the establishment of the agenda exist if most of the total number of MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 129 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. (Dear Shormaz, from the scene: microphone. You can't hear, because you're yelling. On Tuesday and Thursday alone, following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the session, and before moving to a further debate, I ask if any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary group, would like to request a notice and an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The People's Messenger, Nada Lazic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u48950	Dear Chairman, honourable fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I would like to refer a question to the Ministry of Agriculture and the protection of the environment, but at the same time also to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and the occasion was a ban on raising cattle in Alibunar. In fact, the municipality of Alibunar belongs to those 18 poor municipalities in the territory of Vojvodina and the councils in this municipality, led by the SNS and the SPS, made a decision on February 2nd, restricting the number of bovine animals from that municipality. This decision provides that in populated areas in the territory of the entire municipality of Alibunar, there must be a maximum of five cows, i.e. 10 pigs, goats or sheep and up to 60 pieces of livestock, which means that the owners of agricultural holdings, who have more than this number, will have to slaughter or be the one to sell all the cows to muzare, tow pigs and all the rest of the livestock declared to be excess. If this decision were to come to life, the breeders who farmed the cows would lose their right to take over the land of the state, because it is a condition for them to have at least 15 breeding cows. Why did the Alibunar Municipal Assembly make such a decision? Based on five petitions, according to the media, five petitions of citizens, suffocating in the smell of cattle, made this decision and said cattle are not banned in uninhabited areas, and the decision is in line with several laws on municipal activities, environmental and veterinary. I, as someone who deals with ecology, am very pleased to hear somewhere that someone is calling and acting in accordance with environmental requirements, but in that case, instead of this ban, it was necessary to apply the principles of good agricultural practice and to protect air, and there is a profession to do so. In this case, the Ministry appeared unsatisfactory, but I will remind you as a parallel that in the summer of 2014 there was also an unpleasant smell in Panchev. As a result, citizens reported to the Information Centre, and then the smell turned out to be coming from the direction of Belgrade, or from the farm of Belgrade's Agricultural Combine. So, my question, by making a partnership with this, I refer to the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection and refers to the arrival of the German company Tenis, which plans to build 20 pigs' farms in Serbia, of which for the start of five in Banat territory, in Kikinda, Vrsac, Pancheva, Kovina and Zrenjanin, and is projected according to this year's media news, about three million pigs. Last year, when I asked a similar question, there were a million and 500, and now I don't know if it's going to be three million or a million and 500. If there's three million, it'll mean we'll have more pigs in Vojvodina than residents. So, the question I refer to the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection is – how will the unpleasant smells from these farms be prevented, where waste water and waste will be disposed of from these farms, and whether the citizens of Pančevo, Kikinda, Vršac, Kovin and Zrenjanin will be able to write a petition against the smell and act as a decision to worry about pig farming through a number or will the residents of the nearest settlements be emigrated in that case? If it stays this way, that is, this arrangement and the number of pigs that will grow in that territory, that smell can even be a cross-border problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u48951	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Hadji Milorad Tosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u48952	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, I have a parliamentary question for the Minister of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Dr Rasim Ljajic, which concerns the Regulation on the conditions of allocation and the way of use of funds to encourage the development of domestic tourism, which was adopted on 18 June 2015. This Regulation prescribes encouraging the development of domestic tourism. Encouraging the development of domestic tourism is conducted through the award of vouchers for the subsidized use of accommodation services in catering facilities for at least five nights outside the residence of the users of the voucher. This government regulation certainly contributes to the development of domestic tourism and has a full justification for the adoption of such a Regulation. However, it is not good that this Regulation restricts catering facilities and places that can provide this type of service. Namely, Article 2 of this Regulation has been defined - the voucher can be used in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, except in catering facilities on the territory of the city of Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis and Kragujevac. I think it is necessary to change this member and allow the use of vouchers without excluding Belgrade, Novi Sad, Kragujevac and Nis. I think it's necessary to rule out those municipalities in the cities that are devastated in their status. I would stick to Nis and explain the unsustainability of this regulation. Nis is next to Belgrade the only city with several city municipalities, i.e. in Nis there are five city municipalities, including Nisska Banja and Red Cross municipalities that have certain spas in their territory that can provide services provided for by this regulation. The low spa is well known for its Banjsko-recreative and Banjsko-climatological properties, and in the municipality of Red Cross there is a less famous spa called Topilo, but nothing less significant, above all for providing services in rheumatological diseases. Another factor that points to unsustainability, the exclusion of individual centres has been defined in the regulation that the number of applications for the allocation of vouchers is limited by available budgetary means and moves up to 100,000 users. According to the ministry of Ljajic's statement to RTS that only 14,000 vouchers were distributed last year and 118 overnights were reached, it suggests that a much smaller number of citizens used this subsidy, since the funds were provided for 100,000 users. In the first 20 days of January, this year, 1100 citizens reported that they would be more interested in these subsidies in the first 20 days of January, and were expected to have 46,000 vouchers in the year, also less than expected. Good information is that about a million euros has been allocated to help domestic agencies organise and arrival of foreign tourists, as guests who can count on 10 euros per tourist for five nights and 15 euros over five nights. These are just some of the arguments that point to the need to amend the regulation and allow the use of vouchers throughout Serbia's territory. Question for Minister Rasim Ljajic – is the amendment to the regulation, in order to allow, above all, Niška Banja and Banja Topilo, as devasted municipalities, to apply equally for the provision of accommodation services in their catering facilities? The second question – when is the amendment of this Regulation expected? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u48953	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf of the representatives of the National Organisation of Persons with Disabilities of Serbia, who are currently monitoring part of today's session from the Great Hall Gallery. The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u48954	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Presevo and the village of Miratovac since last year are again active for the general public, due to the refugee crisis. Of course, the choice of geographical position, as Presevo municipality passes Corridor 10, and Miratovac passes through the main local road connecting the largest settlements of Presevo municipality with settlements in Macedonia. This time through which they had previously, until the state border was set ten times a day, bus traffic within regular lines. It is still closed and if the government's decision to open small-scale crossings was made in 2005 to Triu Presevo, one in the Shop. While citizens of neighbouring municipalities have not been able for 24 years, within such current cross-border co-operation, for 24 years they have not been able to use this vital traffic facility, which they have used for centuries, so far as during the international embargo, when there has been a mass smuggling of oil derivatives and cigarettes that have been handled by the state and now, in this direction, only migrants move in this direction. It is necessary to ask the Government again, if indeed all citizens are equal to it, why in Presevo, right in Miratovac, does not open a small border crossing, as it has long been done in the Shop, although the joint decision, as I said, was made 11 years ago, in an extremely undeveloped municipality with a record unemployment rate, which is also a border municipality, and there is also Corridor 10, in emergency situations such as an episode from the age of the embargo, but also the current crisis with migrants, a number of more resourceful citizens from this area manage to engage in peripheral activities and to temporarily self-employed. However, in these situations where several thousand refugees pass through Presevo daily, with many collateral damages both in agriculture and in the area of conservation of the environment and in other areas of life, this municipality in which everything is happening, and since its local self-government is totally marginalised, it will become even more degraded and devastated as in the previous international embargo. That's why I'm asking the government in this emergency situation - why in this emergency situation did it not strengthen a fire department that currently cannot, with half-managed forces, not fit even the most important problems and solve the most fundamental problems? Then why was it not more serious to strengthen the capacity of the municipal company, instead of bringing municipal enterprises from other municipalities to solve these current problems and why is it not a strengthened home of health which is also the first to need assistance in the emerging situation with migrants? I'd like to add one more question, and as far as the APR is concerned, four, five years ago, the Company was privatized under discriminatory conditions. It was requested that the buyer must necessarily have a four-star hotel, which was absurd. The buyer who managed at the time and met this condition, soon due to certain manipulations, this privatisation was annulled. In the meantime, however, a large number of business premises were sold, but not all. My question is – what is the status of this company, what is the fate of an unsold business space and whether it will finally enable domestic businessmen to make it impossible then to participate equally, to buy business space, and not to add, to cheap money to, in my opinion, non-serious companies, which are local...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u48955	Time. Thank you. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u48956	Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, respected Nišlja, I asked Mr. Alexander Vukic a few weeks ago about the economic growth and development of the City of Nis and the removal of the railway line from the city centre. Since I didn't get an answer, there's probably a question from here to the government somewhere, so I'll repeat the question. So I'm asking a question to Mr. Alexander Wolfich. In the 2012 and 2014 campaign, Mr Aleksandar Vukic promised citizens Nis, South and Southeast Serbia a better life, more jobs, a city where electricity will not be excluded, a city that will have holeless boulevards, where there will be a much fairer and better attitude towards the city's budget. This is also promised in local elections by representatives of your party, SNS, to the citizens of Nis in 2012. From 2012 until now, Mr. Vukicu, as far as economic growth and development of the City of Nis in the City of Nis is concerned, according to official records there are 365 companies less, you have 201 private stores less, they are closed. Over 2,000 jobs you have less in the City of Nis, and what's interesting is that in 2015 there was data that there were 8% less unemployed in the City of Nis than there were a year earlier. I wonder how this is possible if we know that three billion dinars and 200 million dinars were paid to the city budget in 2012 in the same position, which is the basic income of local self-government, which is 400 million less than in 2012, which means that the drastic drop in jobs in the City of Nis for these four years. When we talk about a fair relationship with the Nis budgets promised by you and your Nis members in the 2012 elections, what will happen to the DRI report and what will you do as prime minister? Because, according to that report, a billion and 200 million city budgets were spent on purpose. In the town of Nis, the position of temporary and occasional jobs was 800 million in the past year, and for the citizens of Nis, it was temporary and occasional jobs reserved exclusively for SNS members. What are you going to do with the find and the lawsuit filed by the Anti-Corruption Forum of the City of Nis about the tender for registration? It's one of the biggest tenders in the last decade in Nis, of six billion dinars, where they suspect an abuse of over 120 million dinars. The second question, Mr. Wolf, is – why didn't you and SNS do anything to move the rails from the city center? I'm very persistent with this question in this assembly room. Mrs. Zorana Mihajlovic gave me answers in terms of convincing my question. And so that the MPs in this assembly hall, and those who were not in Nis, would know what I was talking about and why I was so insistent on behalf of the citizens, imagine, dear colleagues and colleagues, that the train station is near the Wolf's Monument, that the railroad goes across Slavia to Terrace, from Terrace to Prince Michael's, down to Scadarlia, and that there are over ten crossing points at the level of the railway crossings, and there goes all freight and passenger railway traffic. Well, if that were happening in the city of Belgrade, it would have been settled in three months. You have solved "Belgrade on Water" in one day. This year, with all these stabilization measures, you in the republican budget for "Belgrade on Water" have four billion separate, and the city of Nis cannot for four years on the basis of your promises at least get a continuation of the process. You didn't move from what you found in 2012, when it came to moving the railroad. So I ask you, Mr. Vukic, will you, with the same promises of economic rebirth, will you go with the same promise of moving the railroad to a new campaign that's being prepared in two months? Do you think the citizens of Nis will again give you the trust you received in 2012 and 2014? I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u48957	Thank you. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u48958	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my question is addressed to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, for the simple reason that we have asked the same question to the mayor of Belgrade, Mr Sinisha Malo. However, he said the snap elections in Belgrade depend not on him personally, nor on the will of the Belgrade City Assembly, but depend exclusively on him, at his recognition, on Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Alexander Vukic. For this reason, I ask the Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic, why there is no choice in Belgrade? Why is there no choice in Belgrade if we said it was much cheaper for the elections to be in one day? When are all the local elections in Serbia, when are the parliamentary elections in Serbia, why is the city of Belgrade an exception? Why is the SNS headed by the Prime Minister afraid of calling elections in Belgrade? For elections in Belgrade, as you know, there is a cause and we talked about it years ago. The mayor of Belgrade's resignation has been expected several times so far. Not only because of an affair he did not explain, not only because of the disastrous leadership of the city, because Belgrade became the first city in Europe after corruption, by pollution, by the number of people fired, by the number of humiliated. Belgrade Mayor's resignation, which exclusively depends on his recognition by the president of the Republika Srpska government, should give an explanation why some two years after the northern city of Belgrade continues to hold its chair. Why, when we know that in Belgrade alone only the top of the SNS lives better, while all citizens of Belgrade live much, much worse? Why, without "Belgrade on Water", how did they say the project would be questioned? This project that doesn't exist already represents a fraud of the century, because there's someone out there building a shopping mall, a coffee shop and a hotel. Is this the only project worth the humiliation of Belgrade's citizens for the next two years? We are asking a question for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia – is it possible that any job that the state administration of the city of Belgrade through mayors and city administrations can receive only those companies whose owners are close associates of the SNS summit? Countless times so far, all public procurement has been made through certain companies that have the SNS summit license. It doesn't matter the competition, it doesn't matter the price, it's only done to make a small group of people rich, while I repeat, all other citizens live in poverty and poverty. The government of the Republic of Serbia must obviously give the green light to the mayor of Belgrade to resign, although we have asked him several times to do it alone. Because I don't think he should wait for the Prime Minister to tell him what to do, as the citizens of Belgrade expect their mayor to make his own decisions. What is happening today in the capital is that Belgrade has stopped development. Metro, whose first line was to be opened in 2017, never started to be built, no new job was opened. The dig, as we've heard, isn't finished either. All focused exclusively on the private partner of SNS, Mr Alabara, who from "Beograda on Water" has adopted a billion-euro plot, while Belgrade's citizens have reduced pensions, while Belgrade's citizens have reduced the average salary from 470 euros in 2012 to 420 euros today. It is proof that the citizens of Belgrade are living worse and that they no longer want to live in humiliation for the next two years. For this reason, we ask the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, when the mayor cannot make his own decision, make a decision for him and discuss elections for the city of Belgrade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u48959	The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u48960	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my question will be addressed to the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Serbia and is related to the work of Jelizara Smederevo. But, as an introduction, I have to say in the beginning, even if it's true, when we hear in this series of questions that don't make much sense, because obviously opposition parties do not know what to object to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but when we hear that, let's say, someone's private partner, from those who privatised 10% of the land in Vojvodina and all the agricultural cooperatives, and also one big company like Mitros Srem, via the Metals Bank, who became the "Vojvodine Development Bank", all of which gave guarantees to a convicted drug lord who was smuggling cocaine, and then they ask some other authority for prominent investors -- who are investors, as well, we actually come to absurds, because for four years the authorities were just drug lords and no one more. Serbia has remembered it, but it is time to remind them of such things sometimes. You know, I know it with confidence, and so do the colleagues who ruled, i.e. Boris Tadic and Bojan Pajtic, Serbia from 2008 to 2012 that "US Steel", who timely privatised Smederjevska Jelizara, asked the government of the Republic of Serbia and the president of the state at the time to remain a serious investor in Jelizara. He offered different opportunities to stay as a serious company and continue to work in Serbia. However, they were rejected by Boris Tadic and Bojan Pajtic in a sentence – It is our 2012 election year and we cannot help you in this way you are looking for. That was a sentence. Serious investors don't work with loss, they left Jellyzara. The question now arises – what was the business of Jelizara in 2015, based on reports that all normal companies are doing, and what was not done during the time of Tadic and Pajtic's government, which report on how they work and how they operate, what is normal? The public needs to know that. Otherwise, when someone is in power, even in opposition when he sits as an MP, he needs to know that his job is a public job and that it's a job for citizens, that government is not a management of people, but a commitment to those who chose you to do it, to make it better. The serious investor left Jelizara because of the government of Boris Tadic and Bojan Pajtic. Today we expect a new serious investor in Jelizara, but thanks to this government, the government of Alexander Vukic, five thousand people working, receiving wages, doing normal, produced as much as the steel market today allows, which is otherwise in crisis all over the world. For example, a large German "Tisen Krup" sold 30% of its production to a Finnish investment fund because I could not cover the market the way it was needed. Then, on the basis of one report, a reason is required to be attacked by the government of Alexander Vukic, instead of being praised, I repeat, by those whose only investors were drug dealers and the only partners at the time. Four years of government of the Democratic Party in Smederev, not one single investment from 2008 to 2012, literally none. Just stories about that refinery, if you remember, have been driving Smederjevci and Serbian citizens with an alleged refinery for four years. Luckily, there were smart people in that town who knew from the start it was a scam. Now we have the PKC, the fish processing plant opens, the Italian factory another for the automotive industry, three investments in less than two years are in Smederevo. My question for the government of the Republic of Serbia is – how much did the budget of the Republic of Serbia cost that "US Steel" left Jelizara in 2012, 2013 and 2014, because these were the costs made by the government of Pajtic and Boris Tadic and how many of them could be made by the roads?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u48961	Thank you, Mr. Shormaz. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the next MPs: Konstantin Arsenović and Dr Milorad Mijatovic. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that this session has been convened within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the agenda as soon as possible, as set out in the request of the MPs. You were presented with notes of the Fifth Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015, the Seventh, the Eighth and the Ninth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. As most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from those sessions. I would like to inform you that the review in the Office of the Affairs of the Committee on Administrative and Immunity Affairs has shown that none of the Members of the Parliaments has submitted any observations in writing to those minutes. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the Fifth Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015, held on 10 December 2015. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, no one, with abstentions, voted 31 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the fifth special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. I am voting on the minutes of the 7th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015, held on 1, 2nd and 4th December 2015. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 27 of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the minutes of the 7th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. I am voting on the minutes of the eighth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015, held on 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12 December 2015. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 130, against – no one, with abstention – voted 27 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the 8th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. I am voting on the minutes of the ninth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015, held on 14, 15, 16, 17 and 18 December 2015. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. Because of the problem with the electronic system, we'll repeat the vote. I am reputing the minutes of the ninth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015, held on 14, 15, 16, 17 and 18 December 2015. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 133, against – no one, with abstention – voted 25 of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the minutes of the 9th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call for the session of the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in 2016, which was convened at the request of 200 MPs, pursuant to Article 106(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 48(3). Law on the National Assembly and Article 249. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have also been sent to you to request a reflection of the extraordinary session of the National Assembly, with a certain agenda contained in that request. As you could see for the session of the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in 2016, the following was determined: Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Prevention of Discrimination of Persons with Disabilities, 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Culture, 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on a mandatory copy of the publication, 4. Proposal for a Decision establishing the Spatial Cultural History Continent Complex of the Military and Technical Institute in Kragujevac for the immovable cultural good of exceptional importance, 5. Proposal for a Decision establishing the border of the protected environment and the measure of protection of the spatial cultural and historical continent "City core of Sremski Karlovac", an immovable cultural well-being of exceptional importance, 6. Proposal for authentic interpretation of the provisions of Article 142. Public Information and Media Act, 7. A Bill on the Elimination of Assets to Holocaust Victims, 8 / 8 Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Infringements, 9. Proposal for a law amending the Courts' Law, 10. Proposal for a bill to confirm the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and NATO for support and procurement of co-operation in the field of logistics support, 11. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is represented by the Ministry of Defence and the Government of the Republic of Myanmar, which is represented by the Ministry of Defence, on co-operation in the area of defence, 12. Proposal for a decision on the termination of office for public prosecutors, 13. Proposal for a decision to suspend the prosecutor's office in the D.A.'s special jurisdiction, 14. A Proposal for a Decision on the Termination of the Public Prosecutor’s Office in Zajecar, 15. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of the position of President of the Basic Court in Valjevo, 16. Proposal for a decision on the selection of members of the High Council of Judges, 17. Proposal for a decision on the election of members of the State Council prosecutor from the public prosecutor's office and deputy public prosecutor's office, 18. Proposal for a decision on the selection of judges first elected in the judicial capacity of 10 November 2015, 19 November 2015. Proposal for a decision on the selection of judges first elected on the Judgeship of 25 November 2015, 20. Proposal for a Decision on the selection of judges first elected to the Judgeship of 8 December 2015, 21. Proposal for a Decision on the selection of judges first elected on the Judgeship of 26 January 2016, 22. Proposal for a Decision on the selection of judges first elected to the office of judge as of 1 February 2016, 23 February 2016. Proposal for a Decision on the election of judges first elected on 15 January 2016. National MP Igor Bečić, pursuant to Article 92(2) of Article 157(2) and Articles 170, 192 and 193. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to carry out a joint principled single search on: Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law of Culture, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on a Mandatory Model of Publications, Proposal for a Decision establishing a Spatial Cultural and Historical Continuum Complex of the Military and Technical Institute in Kragujevac for an immovable cultural good of exceptional importance, Proposal for a Decision on establishing a Border of the Protected Environment and a measure of Protection of the Space Cultural and History Continent ‘City Core Sremski Karlovac’, an immeasurably cultural good, a proposal for authentic interpretation of the provisions of Article 142. Public information law and media. The second joint principled and uniform search on: the draft law on the removal of property from the victims of the Holocaust, which do not have living legal successors, the draft law on amendments to the Law on Violations, the draft law amending the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Organisation of the Court of Justice, the Proposal for a Amendment of the Act on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Court of Defence and the Government of the Republic of Myanmar Union, which represents the Ministry of Defence, the proposal for a decision on the termination of the functions of the public prosecutors, the proposal for a decision on the termination of the office of the Prosecutor in the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice, the Court of First Instance of Justice, the Court of Justice of Justice of the Court of the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice, the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Europeans, the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of Justice of the Court of Justice of Justice of Justice of Justice of Justice of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 139 against – four abstentions – no, 22 of the 166 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u48962	Thank you, Your Honor. I asked you in accordance with the Rules of Procedure to give me your word as you read Bečić's proposal on the unification of the debate, which in my opinion is the opposite of Article 157, because despite my efforts, I failed to find mutually conditional, or solutions that are related to each other in the proposals of the agenda point, let's say the proposal for a law on the removal of property from the victims of the Holocaust, which do not have living legal heirs with the proposal for a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the NATO for support and procurement of cooperation in the field of logistics support, all with the election of members in the State's larger prosecution and judges who are first elected to the judicial office. I think so, and I'm sorry to continue with the practice of joining points that can't be connected to the Rules of Procedure. For two years, this majority has abused Article 157. A Rules of Procedure that allows for the merger of points, but only on condition that solutions in the proposed points are conditioned and linked. I wanted to hear anything else from my colleague Igor Becic, the vice president, where he saw this mutual connection and the conditionality between these few points whose unification he proposed, and the Assembly, unfortunately, re-adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u48963	Thank you. In Article 92. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly may propose that each MP shall unite the debate and bring the debate together according to certain points of the agenda. I believe that, as the chairman of the National Assembly, I am obliged to inform the National Assembly of this proposal that she will plead. I can't know how the Assembly will declare itself in advance, I can have my own personal position on this proposal, and I can't in this case violate the Rules of Procedure, and as you know, the National Assembly does not violate the Rules of Procedure either. Are you satisfied with the answer or do you want the National Assembly to declare your injury in the voting day? Yeah. ) Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u48964	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Chairman, Article 27 and 92. With the same logic, I can justify this merger of the agenda points for which the SNS parliamentary group will vote, but to remind the MPs and MPs, that in the eighth session between 2008 and 2012, on 29 May we brought together 64 agenda points, and 11 December 2009, 57 agenda points, 5 May 2010 94 agenda points, etc. Then when asked what the bill on the removal of the consequences of the confiscation of property to the victims of the Holocaust has to do with the choice of prosecutors and judges, the only one, and that little logic, because the Ministry of Justice had an obligation to make such a law both as a draft and as a proposal to the National Assembly. But I will also ask, Mr. Chairman of the previous speaker, of course, let's see at that session on May 5th. The year when logic was joined by the Beer Act, along with amendments and additions to the Privatisation Agency Act, unless some brewery had to be privatized. Well, then what does the Law on the Forests also have to do with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Postage Services, together with the Law on Confirmation of the European Convention on the Protection of Pets. Also, I don't see any logic as to how the law has come together with all these proposals and the Law on the Protection of Population from exposure to tobacco smoke, all together with the Law on the Recognition of the Variety of Agricultural Plants. Of course, as a finale, and something that's likely to link all these laws by what logic, there's the law, or the proposal of the meteorology Act. Therefore, I think the agenda proposed by Mr Igor Becic will be supported by the SNS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u48965	I'd like to thank my colleague Babic. On the basis of Article 27(2), I have applied the Rules of Procedure on Article 92 of my fellow Members' proposal, so I do not consider that I have violated the Rules of Procedure. I see you don't want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day. (Zoran Babic, from the place: No. ) The injury of the Rules of Procedure, the word has been given by MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u48966	Dear Chairman, I believe you've injured Article 103. A Rules of Procedure which speaks of the right of MPs to point to a violation of the conduct of the President of the National Assembly, if he considers that he is not in conformity with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, done at the session of the National Assembly, which is in progress and immediately after the injury has been done. I think you should have stopped the previous speaker when he started talking about violations of the Eighth Rules of Procedure calling the National Assembly from 2010, 2011 because today it is 9 February 2016. What the previous speaker has shown is that in those six years he has learned nothing and that there seems to be a competition here that can more points of the agenda to join together. I confess to defeating that game in advance. I'm sure we can't win that contest. This merger of points cannot be justified, and I was talking about the Rules of Procedure, about your obligation in Article 27 to respect this Rules of Procedure, and respect for the Rules of Procedure means that they cannot be placed on the agenda to declare before the Assembly of Proposals which do not comply with the Rules of Procedure. It is the chairman's obligation to take care of the implementation of the Rules of Procedure. If the Rules of Procedure prescribes conditions for the unification of the debate, it is your obligation not to put the proposal that does not comply with the Rules of Procedure at all to be declared. In that case, i.e. if you think that any proposal that comes may be put before the Assembly, whether it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure or not, then the role of the chairman and the obligations under Article 27 shall be unthinked. Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u48967	Thank you, colleague Đurisic. First, I must inform you that this Rules of Procedure was brought to me in 2010, and that it was then started with its application and then the parliamentary majority established the legal practice of applying this Rules of Procedure. You claimed that I hurt Article 92. On the basis of Article 92(2) of the Rules of Procedure, counterpart Bečić proposed a merger of the debate, under this article the MP, the Government and other authorising officers may propose the withdrawal of certain points from the proposed agenda, the addition of the proposed agenda, the merger of the debate, the conduct of the search in particular immediately after the completion of the principled search, the individual draft law and the modification of the order of each item of the proposed agenda. So any of you 249, and even the chairman has the right, 250, has the right to do this and to ask the National Assembly to make a statement. And if I didn't, I'd be breaking the Rules of Procedure myself. It is not my desire and purpose to violate the Rules of Procedure, but to make an effort in accordance with Article 27 of Rule 2 on the application of the Rules of Procedure. A colleague of Veselinović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u48968	Dear Chairman, I'm advocating Article 27. In 106, however, Mr Djurisic has already called on him. First of all, I believe that you have injured these two but also this third member, an unequal treatment of MPs of position and opposition. So, Mr. Chairman, you had to interrupt Mr. Babic because in his speech and here I can call on article 106 but also 103 focused on advertising the 2010 Rules of Procedure, Mr. Arsic. So Article 103 says - the MP can advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure done at the current session. So, it's been six years, Mr. Arsic, Mr. Babic, six years late in advertising the Rules of Procedure. You can't justify that the Rules of Procedure was brought in 2010. So, according to the Rules of Procedure, he has been reporting retroactively for six years to advertise the Rules of Procedure. So, instead of saying or admitting that you've been busy with some other questions, that you haven't heard Mr. Babic, you're trying to convince the Rules of Procedure. We know the Rules of Procedure well. So you violated the Rules of Procedure because you gave Mr. Babic to advertise his 2010 Rules of Procedure, that she was violated at that 2010 session. Please put it to a statement.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u48969	Since you are asking that the National Assembly immediately declare this breach to the Rules of Procedure, I do not consider that you are asking for an explanation or explanation from the chairman. I'm just saying, in accordance with the law of Article 103, you've advertised a violation of the Rules of Procedure regarding Article 106, which says that the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda, which is being searched. I didn't notice that I opened the debate on the proposed agenda at any point, so I'm asking you to keep an eye on it next time so I don't have to apply the other provisions of Article 103. The Rules of Procedure, which is that time, as an independent MP, I refuse you from the times you have spent abuse of the right of Members of Parliament to indicate the violation of the Rules of Procedure. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they have been invited to attend today's session by Alexander Vulin, Minister for Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs; Vladimir Pesic, Assistant Minister for Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs; Tatjana Prijic, Group Manager at the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs. I ask the MPs' groups, unless they've already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a principle search on the draft law supplementing the Law on the Prevention of Discrimination of Persons with Disabilities. Does the proposing representative, Alexander Vulin, Minister of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u48970	The Honorable Chairman, gentlemen of the Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the respected representatives of the organisations that are gathering persons with disabilities, we have before us a law that is, that is, a law on supplementing the Law on the prevention of discrimination against persons with disabilities who are very short, only three members change here, but it is a law that can change the position of persons with disabilities in this country for the better and has a concrete impact on the quality of their lives so that they can be better. This is the adoption of a law supplementing the Law on the Prevention of Discrimination of Persons with Disabilities is actually a continuation of the policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which has shown that it really cares about improving the situation of people with disabilities. I will remind the MPs and once again express my gratitude for the debate and the time we have put into the adoption of earlier laws that regulate the position of persons with disabilities, that this is already the third legislative proposal from this area, and earlier years these proposals were not so often found. So this is already the third law we adopt, and I hope that you will support us in what we have proposed, which specifically improves the situation with disability in the term of office of this government. The essence of this law is that in the everyday life of a person with disabilities, who because of the nature of their disability, physical or sensory damage or disease, here is thought of blind, impaired persons, persons who are suffering from various muscle or neuromuscular illnesses or quadriplegia, as well as persons who do not have the above extremities simply are not able to use one of their simple, usually human right to use their own signature. They can't do it for understandable reasons, they can't sign, so they come across a whole sea of problems when they go to the bank, when they go to a tourist agency, when they go to an organ of local self-government, the MUP, when they go to solve everyday life problems that don't seem to me and you to be able to spot them. But these are problems that are noticed and the solution to these problems really means people with disabilities. For many years, the conscience has asked for this problem to be resolved and has finally come to the agenda. In this way, not only do we meet our obligations to the Convention that we have ratified on the ban on discrimination against persons with disabilities in 2009 and a whole series of international and domestic regulations, but more importantly, we show that we recognize the problems of people with disabilities and solve them. People with disabilities who can't take advantage of their signature don't do it, they're thinking, as I said, primarily of blind, weak-sighted, and other categories that have problems with the above extremes, they're not doing it because they're illiterate or because they don't understand their signature, but because they're physically unable to do that simple thing. In this way, in accordance with the process of inclusion, we equate the position of people with disabilities with everything else and give them the opportunity to solve everyday life problems faster and simpler. Of course, the question of abuse is immediately raised, to ask the question of how it will be checked whether or not a person with disabilities can do so. Here in law, in these three members it is clearly foreseen. But let me tell you right now, because someone is thinking about how, in order for someone to distort the content of this law, I have to say that it must not in any way diminish the need for this law to be passed. There are other laws that regulate fraud, which regulate counterfeiting, and it's not something you can tie to people with disabilities, but it's something you can tie to people like that and it's being dealt with by other laws, and this law we regulate that people with disabilities are going to meet their daily life needs in a simpler and better way. I want to do it again. In this way we show that we care, that we care as a society, that we care as a community, and that we will do everything we can to ensure that people with disabilities to the greatest extent possible, not ignoring, naturally, objective difficulties, participate in the everyday life of this country. This is our only world and we have to share it. Let's not appreciate people for what they can't. We appreciate them for what they can do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u48971	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (Yes) The word has the messenger of the people, Anamaria Vicek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u48972	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear fellow ministers, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I would like to state the position of the SVM parliamentary group in relation to this law supplementing the Law on the Prevention of Discrimination of Persons with Disabilities. We think that the law that is before us today, although only three members of this law are being completed, the existing law that was passed in April 2006, is nevertheless a very important law to supplement the Law on the Prevention of Discrimination. In Article 1 supplementing Article 34, which refers to the role of the public authority to enable the signature by means of stamps of persons with disabilities who have permanent consequences of physical or sensory damage or disease and are unable to sign in a different legal manner. This option does not apply to the signing of a contract. Article 2 shall be added after the same article, Article 34a, which refers to the duties of natural and legal persons to enable the use of services by signing with the help of a seal containing personal identity or seal data with a signed signature. The third member, Article 3, shall contain criminal provisions in the event of refusal of that duty. Although not extensive, this supplement is very significant. Namely, its provisions prevent discrimination, i.e. it enables the right of disabled persons, which refers precisely to those citizens who have problems with the use of faxes, and according to the last 2011 census, there are more than half a million people with physical disabilities and about 240 thousand blind and impaired persons. The documents preceding these supplements, namely the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination of Persons with Disabilities, on the one hand, are the Strategy for improving the position of persons with disabilities in the Republic of Serbia, which was adopted in 2007 and, as Mr. Minister has just explained, the Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which was adopted in 2009. Let's remind ourselves, in Article 29. The Convention, concerning the participation of persons with disabilities in political and public life, states Parties undertake to ensure that persons with disabilities can participate effectively and fully in political and public life, equally as others, directly or through representatives whom they choose, which includes the right and possibility of persons with disabilities to vote and be elected and of three points of the same member, the other applies to this very law today. Namely, this point says – to protect the rights of persons with disabilities to vote in secret in elections and public referendums without intimidation, as well as to run in elections effectively perform duties and all public functions at all levels of government, etc. It is important to stress that this is one of the few laws around which there is no greater controversy, according to which there is no resistance in society. As the law is supported by the expert public, so is the target group that it refers to. Namely, the Centre for Independent Life of Persons with Disabilities of Serbia, chaired by Mrs Gordana Rajkov, who attended several times meetings of the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Reduction of Poverty, fully supports the adoption of this law, and also representatives of the National Organisation of Persons with Disabilities of Serbia fully support the law, since the National Organisation of Persons with Disabilities of Serbia was one of the initiators to pass this law, in order to comply first of all with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Finally, I would like to point out that SVM MPs will support this law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u48973	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Ljiljana Kosoric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u48974	Thank you. Mr President-in-Office, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected Mr. Ministers with Associates, today there is a law on supplementing the Law on the Prevention of Discrimination of Persons with Disabilities, which will have an impact on the equal exercise of the rights of all persons with disabilities, who, because of the nature of their problems, are not able to sign themselves by hand in different situations and enable them to exercise human rights in accordance with principles relating to respect for the dignity, independence and independence of persons with disabilities and full participation in social life, accessibility and availability of rights and services. The additions relate, as we heard in the opening presentation of Mr. Minister, to Articles 34, 34 and 52, where public authorities are obliged to allow the signing of documents with the help of the seal containing personal identity information or with the help of the seal with the attached signature, in the actions of persons with disabilities in those bodies, to have permanent consequences of physical or sensory damage or disease. Legal and natural persons shall be obliged to enable persons with disabilities who have permanent consequences of physical or sensory damage or disease to use sealing services. Penalties are also provided for in the case of non-compliance, non-compliance with these provisions of the law for both the legal and the responsible legal person in the legal person and the natural person. I would point out that one of the fundamental legal and moral principles of every modern democratic society, based on human freedoms and rule of law, is the principle of equality of people, which guarantees equality of people before the law and prohibits any form of direct and indirect discrimination, and that Serbia is in the process of joining the European Union, a community of countries that attach great importance to combating discrimination and achieving equality, and therefore there are efforts to integrate domestic legal system into the highest international standards in this field of achieving equality of persons with disabilities. The prevention of discrimination and the exercise of rights, in accordance with the needs of persons with disabilities, is a permanent commitment of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the already mentioned Strategy for improving the situation of persons with disabilities in the Republic of Serbia, the Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, the Law on the Prevention of Discrimination of Persons with Disabilities, as persons with disabilities have the right to security and safety, equal protection against law, life without discrimination against individuals or institutions based on disability, accessibility, education, housing, health and labour. These rights are also contained in other legal solutions, and there is the government's intention that if they are not defined enough, they will be in the next period. So I would also mention the Law on Sports, which we have just adopted here in the Assembly, where there is clearly certain accessibility of sports, programs and topics to these persons, the Law on Housing, the Law on the Organisations of Persons with Disabilities, which is yet to be found in the Assembly procedure, the Law on Social Entrepreneurship, High Education, the Family Law, where the issue of custody of persons with disabilities, the Law on Social Protection, also regulates this issue and the Law on Gender Equality. In favour of will and desire to achieve visible steps forward in this area, I would point out that a working group was established here in this high home of the National Assembly for the Strengthening of Persons with Disabilities in Politics, headed by Parliament Speaker Maja Gojkovic, whose goal is to strengthen the political participation of persons with disabilities in Serbia, by improving their impact on the legislative framework and electoral processes, in practice to improve the achievement of human rights of persons with disabilities and their full involvement in society, economy, politics, education, health, culture, sport and other areas of life. Finally, I would like to welcome this initiative by the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Protection for Contributions and these additions to the Law on the Prevention of Discrimination of Persons with Disabilities who are and how significant and, in the end, the MPs of the Serbian Renewal Movement in the Election Day will accept and vote for these supplements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u48975	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milan Bicanin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u48976	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Minister, fellow MPs, it is indisputable that the Social Democratic Party of Serbia will support the proposed bill, or a supplement on preventing discrimination against persons with disabilities. It's almost unnecessary to say why it's our commitment, but as a MP, I'm obliged to explain it, too. First of all, this supplement is very important and I just regret that it didn't happen much, much, much earlier, because in our society... Here's my colleague said what percentage of people are disabled, and overall, that's 15% of the population. That's a very high percentage. There are a number of people who have different difficulties, and this society wants to worry about, but sometimes we don't seem to be fast enough, because I don't see why sometimes, I say, much, much earlier this bill has not been passed, this supplement. It's a completely obvious matter, a completely obvious problem that our fellow citizens have, that have different kinds of problems, whether they were born with them or happened to experience some physical injury during the working century that makes them disabled and that prevents them from confirming what is the essence of every human being, which is the right to dignity, the right to sign and thus confirm that you are the one and that you confirm your will. We all have these needs, and this time we're going to meet all the organizations of persons with disabilities at the republican level, local level and local organizations, to solve this issue. I have also participated in the work of the Working Group that has already been discussed, and I will be pleased to continue, because I consider it primarily one human obligation, anywhere you are, and now I am just using that possibility as a national MP. What happened with me, Minister, when I read the explanation, caused sympathy is that sentence where it is said: they are not illiterate. It's true, they're not illiterate, but they're not here, you'll agree with me, the issue of literacy, but the issue of defending man's dignity and all the rights arising from the very act of birth and existence. That is why we need to support this law, that is, this supplement. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia is, in its not-so-long tradition of existence, but in its valuable model, which has been represented for many years, by many organisations of this type at the state level and all that we have done, we will continue to make it possible for our fellow citizens to have a better quality life when we talk about health insurance, when we talk about education, about the need for education based on the conditions for further participation of our citizens in society, for a sense of equality, desire, presence. I must say, and I am sure that we all know here about Milan Petrovic School of Novi Sad and one great director of Slavica Markovic, who, with her team, had been developing this type of education with numerous services for many years. I would really strongly recommend that whoever did not go, admire the work of a wonderful collective and a way of understanding and supporting our young fellow citizens and their families who need this support. What is also important is, of course, support for local organisations and, of course, everyone else at a republican level that represents interest and struggles to achieve the rights of persons with disabilities of any type, and this is our principle of accessibility. Where there are physical barriers we send recklessly and, I hope, unwanted message that such fellow citizens are not desirable. I'm sure that's not true, but you need more attention in that direction and you need... This inability to access something prevents you from achieving some other interest and other need, and here we had in the discussion of this Working Group with organisations, or national organisations, their need, in terms of elections, to help them be accessible, to have the possibility when they vote that if they are weak-sighted, etc., they have the opportunity to exercise their voting right. I know that in schools, when the final exam is being carried out, that weak-sighted students are being helped, material is available to them so that they can show their knowledge and everything they've developed and progressed in their education, and I don't think this should be a big problem for the country. If we define it one day as a significant problem, we'll solve it again, and yet I think we should do it as soon as possible. I'm going to finish, because I really don't think this is going to be too long, because it's too clear and too necessary, but really, I can see very much now, I understand and then, I see the importance of the Safety Act at work that we've brought, which is very much needed to pre-warn the problems. In this sense, all efforts to develop the state economically, with modern technologies, with trained employees in one part of solving or creating this problem can give the necessary answers and important instructions for further. In the end, we will absolutely support this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u48977	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u48978	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, honourable Mr. Minister with associates, fellow MPs, MP Boris Tadic-SDS, the ZZS, will support the bill's proposal. We think it's a good thing the minister has found time to deal with problems from his portfolio and to propose amendments to laws that will help disabled people to make their rights easier. It is good that this law is practically applying the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, in one concrete way to solve a problem. What I want to ask the ministers as a question today, I have not been able to fully understand why this fence remains in the proposed Article 1 to add the position that-that the documents representing the form of the contract or any other legal regulation cannot be signed in accordance with the position of the 1st member, but in accordance with the regulations governing over the signature and confirmation of the document. I think reading the reasons for the laws and articles of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which in Article 4, say that the state has committed itself to taking all appropriate measures, including legislation in order to amend, abolish existing laws, regulations, customs and practices that constitute discrimination against persons with disabilities, as well as Article 12 of the same Convention that says - provides for the right of persons with disabilities to manage property uninterrupted and carry out legal transactions by abolishing financial affairs. We, starting from this Convention, have proposed one amendment by reading the bill. He says in part that besides "public authorities", "public notebooks", which were introduced by law just over a year and a half after a great deal of trouble, that even before them persons with disabilities who cannot sign, who are not illiterate and are aware, can exercise their right in this way. We believe that this would be a complete alignment and application of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. I personally do not understand the reasoning here in the light of the law, it is said that the Law on the Authority of Signatures, manuscripts and transcripts, which was adopted in 2014 and amended in 2015, provides for a second procedure. We believe that this law could have changed, that the Convention is talking precisely about governments taking all the measures, such as changing and abolishing existing laws, and we believe that this was an opportunity to maybe change this Act of Signation, that, as you have proposed to the public authorities, it is now possible that this faxing exercise of a right, that the same thing can be done in front of the notaries. I say, we support the law, it's a step forward we just think that this was a good opportunity to take that one more step, that this right to be established in all cases, as the Convention provides for in Article 12, which is a smooth management of property and the conduct of all legal affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u48979	The word has a minister named Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u48980	Thank you. Here, to capture or at least to answer and certainly thank all the debaters who have so far understood what the essence of this law is and who see that we should not make any political division out of this. This is something that's really undeniable. This society needs to take care of people with disabilities, they're part of our society, they're no separate part, and it's up to us to do everything possible and more than that we have that kind of positive discrimination, that they can use all the rights, that they can use whatever society makes available to them and what puts each one of us. People with disabilities have the same hopes, the same fears, the same desires, the same doubts, they look forward to the same things, they're sad about the same things as others. It's up to us to recognize it as public authorities, as state-guarantee holders, to make their lives better. As far as your question is concerned, yes, we talked about it, and the position of the legislation was that first it had to change this law, the law you warned about, the law on the certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts, because the law had never foreseen facsimile as such. He didn't regulate my or your facsimile that we can use in everyday life beyond this. So I have to change the law first, that's the attitude of the legislation. As far as we're concerned, he could have been here, but that's the attitude and we accepted it. I hope we can solve this problem as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u48981	The People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u48982	I would like to welcome the representatives of the National Disabilities Organization and take a moment to go with this bill. First, at the beginning, I would like to say that the DS parliamentary group will support this law since this law is one of the normal, decent and humane legislative solutions that will help people with disabilities to have one more decent, more dignified life. When Serbia signed the Declaration, the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities adopted by the UN General Assembly on 13 December 2006, and Serbia initialled several years later, I want the MPs, and the public with some members, to know the preambles of this Convention, that the principles are remembered by the UN Charter of Rights which recognises innate dignity as equal and inalienable rights of all members of the human community as fundamentals of freedom, justice and peace in the world, in point A. In the Charter and the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, concerns are expressed in spite of the documents mentioned, efforts and measures many governments, institutions and relevant organisations have taken, persons with disabilities continue to face barriers to their participation in society on the grounds of equality, as well as with violations of their human rights around the world. This is something we in Serbia need to be aware of. I know that our friends, fellow citizens, are the problem of many architectural barriers that are zero every day despite the many laws that we bring here, that numerous investors who make, whether hospitals, whether mail, whether police stations, whether buildings, leave no architectural possibility and a ramp for people with disabilities to enter and move unhindered, but those barriers simply exist. What I want to point out to the ministers may be even more important than breaking down architectural barriers, which are barriers to the heads of our citizens when it comes to people with disabilities. We must together and uniquely send a message about the importance of accepting the rights of persons with disabilities. This bill of law today is good. Until now, when I was talking, I was dating a story from life, from the corner of my friend from Nis who lives in a wheelchair, who is suffering from a chronic muscle dystrophy that can only move three fingers and has so far had a problem with the signing of bills in banks, which had a problem with voting at the polling station. From his point of view when this bill came, I first consulted him, what this bill means to him. It means that he has the opportunity to end his day-to-day obligations with this seal much more decent and dignifiedly, to have the right in the bank not to shake his hand, because only with three fingers he can hold a pen, that someone else can't sign the note instead, that someone else can't vote for him. So, this bill is good. What I want to say about discrimination is that this is one of the three laws that we have in this assembly had the opportunity to debate and adopt, along with the guide dog, sign language and this law, and that one good way to make life easier for people with disabilities. But again, from the point of view of my friend from Nis, who suffers from chronic muscle dystrophy, I would like to stress the importance of introducing personal assistants. It's something many local self-governments don't know what a personal assistant means. A personal assistant is something that means life, meaning the launch of these people with severe disability, who are in a wheelchair, who can't move in bed without the help of a personal assistant, and where many local self-governments don't see them as beings who need help, but look at them as the cost of introducing a personal assistant. This cannot be a cost, and it cannot be some item that is impossible for local self-government, but it should be the obligation of a human Serbia to, not only in Nis and here in Belgrade now to introduce itself, but to be the state's position, to make it an obligation for the state to have insight in local communities how many citizens of their community need personal assistants, and to help them in order to fight together, to enable the introduction of personal assistants into the local community system, to help these people. So, I think this is clear, but many local self-governments, I'm stressing again, they don't know that. We've introduced it in Nis for several years and it works as a single project. I advocate as a folk MP and in Nis just talked about it, I think you'll support me, that it can't be a project, but that it should be a budget item of every city and that the city must have an accurate insight through its social affairs centre and provide personal assistants for these people. I will use today and your presence to speak on behalf of some parents who have been practically invisible for several years to the republican administration, who are precisely for their children who have a problem with some disease or with developmental disturbances, with a certain degree of disability, who are demanding the adoption of a parent-care professional law. I know that this law has found you, because that bill and the story of that law was even before. There was a protest by parents outside the republic's government a few years ago, when you didn't run that ministry, where parents from all over Serbia gathered more than 61 thousand signatures with the desire to regulate this matter. I personally think of myself as a doctor, and as a parent, that we need to help these parents. I know that Serbia's budget is not great, but that we must show humanity in this segment too, to allow a legal solution for these parents who need to be with their children. Because who better to look after a child who is in a wheelchair, who is with developmental disorders, who is with a severe disability than that parent who has to quit his job with current legal solutions or who has to leave work to be with his child? That's one question and one test for human Serbia. I think that, on these issues, we are all unique and there is no big policy here, but that we need to get into a more serious solution to this problem, to look at the exact number of people and parents we need to help and, legally, to get into solving this one problem, which would once again put Serbia on the map of human and decent European countries. I would remind you that, in the environment of the former Yugoslavia, such as Croatia, such as Slovenia and almost Montenegro, have passed this bill and that this law is not difficult to regulate when there is good will. I know that there is a lot of parent organisations with children with disabilities, with children who need 24-hour attention from parents and, here, in order to have a decent today's debate, which is aimed at improving the quality of life for our fellow citizens who have a disability problem, this is a practical attempt to keep us from stopping. As you said, in some years before, there was something going on, and this is good now, and I'm using the opportunity to say once again, it's nice that we had three good laws in this session that improved the quality of people with disabilities, but it's not enough in order and this Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which we supported as a state, we should already move on. I would like to agree with a colleague who praised Slavica Markovic, director of the school "Milan Petrovic" from Novi Sad. I want to tell you that I was in that school twice as an MP and that I am delighted with the humanity of that woman, with the ability of that woman to run that school, because those children she sees as a mother. It is recommended that all MPs, all politicians go to that school, see how they deal with love with those children who have problems. In addition to Mrs. Slavica Markovic's praise, I would like to tell you that in my Nis, there is the School of "Bubanj" with the home of students, led by Director Snezana Čaapić, children with hearing disorders, with vision, with other disorders, also have a good collective, and I want to commend before you and the MPs this collective that works very humanely and well with children in schooling, in educating children who have a disability problem. So, Serbia is a human country, Serbia has human citizens, but it is necessary for us politicians to understand this humanity, in the face of our own opportunities, both in power and in opposition, and to be unique when their interests are at stake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u48983	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u48984	Of course, one of the most important problems is general availability and architectural, but certainly a role in society. You know, most of our institutions, in the area not only of social protection, but of all institutions, are not built on purpose. It was made at a time when simply involving disabled people was not thought or taken care of. We're trying to change that. Here, let me give you a concrete example. Last year, in collaboration with the MUP, we have already equipped 24 departments, i.e. police departments with appropriate ramps, which, believe me, is once a real architectural challenge, because you have a building that was built in 1930 and some years, narrow corridors, no stairs, etc. But so far, 24 police administrations have solved this problem in collaboration with the Ministry of Labour, and a man with a wheelchair will be able to go and take out his ID card. Sounds a little bit. It does sound kind of amazing, but it does. That's what we're doing, and we're not stopping until we're done with every police department. Also, that goes for our departments. We left first of our ministry. It was, believe it or not, the departments of the PIO Fund and the National Employment Service where there was no ramp. And not only was there not a ramp, but there weren't any options in some, say, you have a department where you do skill and anything else at all, and that's on some other floor and there's no elevator. How do you take a man in a wheelchair to the second or third floor to hang him, and you don't have an elevator, etc.? And we've solved that, we've solved that, and I'm sure we'll solve it completely, that there won't be any part of our ministry, and I mean social work centres and the PIO Fund and the National Employment Service, which in this way won't be absolutely available. Will it always be in line with the highest standards? It would be necessary to have a toilet special for people with disabilities, customized. I don't know, but at least this is basic, it has to be done and it can be done and we're trying to do it anyway. You were talking about one important thing, which is essential - involvement is not a ramp. Inclusion is not an architectural obstacle. Inclusion is the relationship of society to a person with disabilities. You know, here's to boast, this year the National Employment Service has achieved the best result so far, it's employed through active employment measures of 4,913 people with disabilities. The best result before that was in 2009 – 3,914 people with disabilities. So there's progress. But still the largest number of employers predetermined to pay so-called. Penalty rather than receiving a disabled person, although we give, here, and this is an opportunity, whenever I can, I use that opportunity to talk about it, we give really big incentives for hiring people with disabilities, from 180,000 and up to 250,000, depending on the municipality. We pay especially for adjusting the job for a disabled person. We pay for the training and training you need to hire a disabled person. And still the largest number of employers hesitate to take advantage of that convenience and that possibility. You know, there's only one excuse I can accept and that's reasonable, where we all have to work together, and that's that you don't have enough people with disabilities with the right expertise or knowledge that you need, but then that's something we can fix, that's a common mistake or a common problem. That's why we have a national service. That's why we're going to train a man for what he doesn't know, and there's a need on the labour market for that profile. It can be solved and solved. But, secondly, there's got to be a whole society to fight, if a man simply won't accept a person with disabilities, for whatever reason, he simply believes that the process of inclusion doesn't really need to be implemented. It's something that we all have to work on together, and it's something that we all have to take care of together. Otherwise, what you said, we have a whole number of extraordinary institutions dealing with people with disabilities, especially our children. I really call upon each of the MPs that when there is time, there is interest, to come to see, you will be surprised at the amount of love and commitment these people work with. It's not a job you can lock up at work. That's not something you can say it's been a while. No one in the social security system can say it's past hours. We work with people. They're really wonderful people and it can't be calculated with money, it just can't. The average of their salaries, and to increase it I don't know how much, is always less than what they gave and what they give. You need to come, you need to see, really, please, do it. Don't look back at all. They'll criticise when you get here. They'll tell you right away that what you're coming up with is a promotion. Great, just promote yourself that way, go to those kids, see if there's anything you can do to help, let it be a promotion of all politicians and all political parties, I'll be pleased. Here, I speak on behalf of the social security system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u48985	The word has the People's Messenger Dr Dusan Milisavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u48986	I'd just like to take a brief look at your discussion, when we talk about architectural barriers and their removal and when we talk about barriers in citizens' heads. Here's one. It's not an appeal. It's an invitation to all political parties. Here comes the election. When we talk about people with disabilities, we only talk about when World Day is a person with disabilities. Let's let all the political parties run for MPs' list one person with disabilities, show in case we really take care of them, not talk about anything, let alone work. So here is one call for all political parties – put one person with disabilities in the first 20 and show that you really support people with disabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u48987	Thank you. Any other words? The word has been given by the People's MP Mirjana Dragas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u48988	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Minister, MPs, I can say at the very beginning that it is a pleasure to see that about an important law like this today, which treats the prevention of discrimination on persons with disabilities, we have the consent of all political parties represented here in parliament, and I am confident when it comes to the same relationship and the general public. At the very beginning, I will also say that the bill of this kind also has great importance for the lives of these people with disabilities, which enables them to function more easily and better, self-respect and an expression of greater security, and that in any case it means and shows a greater degree and social community itself in terms of developing tolerance and mutual respect, which should certainly be welcomed as one existing but even more future trend in the development of our society. In that sense, in any case, the SPS parliamentary group will vote in favour of this bill. The issue of citizens' equality in Serbia has been on the rise in recent years and is becoming more and more present and therefore the result of this bill. It is also the result of the growing adoption of other modern laws in Serbia and the approximation of Serbia's laws and legislation to modern laws that exist in the EU, as well as compliance with its laws and principles. The important goal to achieve this is, therefore, respect for the diversity and respect of all minority groups, and people with disabilities are certainly one small part of Serbia's population. But we must not forget that, according to the record we have, about 800,000 citizens of our Republic are persons with disabilities and, in any case, in future laws, they need to be guaranteed equality, better functioning in society and in any case, solving their needs, their interests and their objectives. Fortunately, the last years of this topic have been increasingly present in society, they are more present in the legislation, this has been shown by the debate so far, that in some other laws here in parliament we have adopted those solutions that go in terms of simplifying and facilitating the lives of people with disabilities in other areas of social life, such as sports, such as housing, such as the development of social entrepreneurship, employment opportunities, work equality, social protection, what will be resolved in family law, etc. To praise, of course, the entrepreneurship and activity of this ministry, which in the previous period also passed two specific laws that we adopted here, which is the movement with the help of the guide dog and the Sign Language Act. It is up to us, on a wider social community and on other state bodies, to make these laws more and more present in society, to enable them to function, and thus to develop and individual and social awareness and responsibility for the existence and application of these laws. When I talk about it, I think first of all about the general application of sign language that is present to a certain extent and in the media, here I especially mean television, but I think it can be in the coming period and many more and much better, as well as, of course, the movement of disabled persons with the help of a guide dog. When it comes to that, we have seen that the law has been passed, that it has started to apply, but we have no awareness and responsibility to respect it to the end and to help people with disabilities defacto, not to elaborate further. The appearance of a guide dog in public transport at a certain point caused a misunderstanding, not to say a possible conflict, which shows that we ourselves are not ready enough, as citizens, to adapt to the changes that arise. This should, of course, be done, have patience and give in any case public, media support for positive changes, and in that sense also improve relations in society. In the Assembly itself, in addition to the laws that we have discussed and adopted on the proposal of this and other ministries, I would also like to commend the establishment, that is, of the formation a few days ago of this special working group that has been involved in empowering people with disabilities in politics, chaired by the President of the Assembly, which took part by representatives of all political parties in parliament and which has shown to our very first session that we are all equally interested in participating in the work of this group, to help with their political empowerment and to improve all forms of their lives. So, when it comes to this law itself, it is important to say that it is important for persons with a high degree of disability because it enables them, unless they can hand out their signature, which is important for the cover of individual acts, documents, etc., to do so by means of stamps that give their personal identity and have their specific protection. Certain individuals may be affected by or perhaps in the work of the public and the question of whether there is a danger of abuse of such a form of signing, or abuse of the seal itself. I understand, and so I interpreted the law, that this abuse is not possible, for the simple reason that, as with the very giving of the signature, a man must be present, and in the use of this seal in public use, only a person must be present, and his degree of disability is recognised, as well as his identity with the help of the ID card. It's simple, I think that protection is secure. In any case, access to all public affairs by people with disabilities is much better and in any case gets their support. By introducing the seal, what I think is important in the very life of this person is respect for his dignity, which I would very much welcome, the experience of his individuality, independence, independence, respect for differences, respect and acceptance of their existence, accessibility and equality in every respect. This was also the case of certain technical barriers. I would like to underline that, when it comes to removing technical barriers, we would also welcome all places where they are abolished, ensuring the availability of persons with disabilities, the services they are interested in, but it can also be done so that certain types of services in certain buildings and institutions that have a obligation to work with the parties are moved from the floor to the ground floor, and then that communicability would be better and simpler. Following the elections, we may also be able to draw attention to where, for this short time, we allow the polling post not to be on the floor, it often happens in a school or another institution, so the polling place is placed on the first or second floor, which is difficult for such persons. Where it is, I say, possible, I suggest that appropriate measures be taken and that the polling place, by bringing it down to a lower level, makes it available to these people. In any case, not only this law and this solution, but also all the other proposed laws, I am quite confident that, led by such an idea, the ministry that deals with these issues and in the next period will adopt the necessary laws that will develop the entire system, which will ensure that these people who live next to us, who, as you said, have the same desires, needs and feelings as we do, experience this community as an equal community, where we will develop respect for each other, respect and tolerance. In that sense, we support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u48989	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vesna Rakonjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u48990	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with fellow Members, I am very happy that today we have as a topic of amending and supplementing the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, in this particular section relating to the use of the seal or personal fax for persons with disabilities, to whom it will restore dignity. I personally had a dilemma about attitude 2, which points to some limitations, however, I saw this amendment and the addition of the law as a first step in solving these problems, and as you know, the Ministry of Labour systematically and gradually solves one problem at a time, the minister is very honest and committed to those regular and extraordinary activities around migrants, which are simply being imposed and doing so in a maestro way, so I simply and simply couldn't keep the criticism of a predecessor. I think this first step will be an introduction to something much bigger, which is – the adoption of laws on the use of seals and faxes, which will certainly have provisions that will apply to the use of stamps and faxes of persons with disabilities. There is also a legal regulation – the Law on the certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts, where it is clearly defined as being so far, but this law does not provide for the use of faxes. We will certainly initiate an amendment and an addition to those legislative regulations that are not in our jurisdiction, but in collaboration with the Government and other ministries, we will be initiators of these activities anyway, in order to complete this story. What matters very much to me, which is a change of consciousness, a change of understanding of the needs of people with disabilities. That change can only happen in our heads if you spend as much time with these people. With circumstances, as president of the Labour Committee, I've had a lot of meetings with representatives of persons with disabilities and believe me, I'm very happy to start thinking their way, to experience their problems and to interpret them in the right way. I simply caught myself in one situation, while waiting to regulate some of my obligations in a bank, I realized that on the paper I got when I registered for my job, there was no mark on Bray's letter. So, the person who's weak-sighted and blind from that machine won't get a piece of paper with Bray's countermark, or his number where he's supposed to answer. The second that went through my head at the moment, I heard a sound signal, but I didn't hear the number and the number of counters where you should sign up. Yeah, he's a security guard, he's providing a favor, but it's not his basic job. So that's what we need to think about. We should appeal to all public services, both state and private institutions, banks, service activities, tourist organisations, means all service providers, whether they are in the public or private sector, to facilitate access to people with disabilities. The second thing that's happened to me in the last week has made me very happy, which is that a mutual friend came and said – you know, my neighbor got a permanent job. A boy who, in his environment, has a disabled person in his family, i.e. a person who is hearing low and the boy had to undergo training with circumstances, to provide his family with adequate services and help, such a person was engaged by a local community, or local self-government as an interpreter for sign language. And he's got both work and satisfaction for what he's been doing so far, and that makes me very happy. I think we're on the right track, I think the legal solutions we've adopted so far, and they're about people with disabilities, are just the beginning. I think we should keep working. What I'm saying is that even the European Union regulations do not have any clear normatives that would relate to the content of these regulations, except for Article 26 concerning the integration of persons with disabilities. So, we can do a lot better, we know a lot better, and I think we should keep going like this. As far as our task force is concerned, she'll be doing it right in the last year and a half. We have an election coming up, but that doesn't mean the task force won't work. The task force will work all the time, such is the agreement between the members of the task force, and we have agreed that colleagues who are our successors, because we do not know what the next call will look like, teaching in that spirit, because the project takes a year and a half and cannot be interrupted at all. We need to empower the existing people with disabilities to exercise their right to be elected and elected. Our law that we represent today is one step in having access to the polling post with dignity and being signed with the name and last name, fax or stamp, but doing so in a dignified way, as full members of the community. Thank you all, thank you for one constructive discussion and we'll do even better.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u48991	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u48992	I thank the chairman. Dear ministers, amendments and additions to this law, the New Serbia parliamentary group sees as an important step in implementing the strategy for improving the position of disabled persons, as well as in applying the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which the Republic of Serbia has ratified. Article 4 point 1b. This Convention obliges the Signatory State to take all appropriate measures to amend or abolish existing laws, regulations and customs and practices that discriminate against persons with disabilities in any way. I see the amendments and additions of this law as another step in that direction, as a step for Serbia to take care of 12% of the citizens of this population living in Serbia. I think this is how we prepare for the opening of chapters 23, 24, about human rights in the right way. The proposed additions to this law may be very small because they are only two members, but they are essential to improving the total number of positions of one part of our population living with permanent visual impairment or the inability to use the upper extremities. The proposed additions to the Law imposes an obligation on all public authorities to use a stamp with etched poptis in procedures, without any exceptions, to persons who are not able to be signed because of permanent visual impairment, in everyday speech known as facsimile, i.e. a stamp that identifies a person with disabilities to those bodies with their personal data. Of course, this obligation will have other legal and natural persons in the future, such as banks, tourist organisations, and other institutions, the only signing of the contract because of its specificity will be an exception. When it comes to blind and undersighted persons, I have to mention that many good things have been done in the last few years, first of all, a large number of sound traffic lights have been set, a lot of relief paths and other orientations have been done. I would say it is a front in the city of Belgrade, but I expect that in other cities and municipalities in Serbia, in the coming period, similar will be done. Therefore, legal regulation of the use of facsimile as a handwritten signature after the National Assembly adopts additions to this law will allow disabled persons, above all respect for dignity, as well as individual independence and independence. I think that the working group, mentioned by my distinguished colleague, which was formed here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and which brings together all representatives of political parties in the coming period will also make a significant contribution to the inclusion of persons with disabilities in Serbia's political and public life. At the end of my presentation, I would like to inform you that the New Serbia parliamentary round in the voting day will support changes and additions to this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u48993	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (No) The word has the People's MP Zlata Djeric, not there. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, not there. The word has a National MP, Branka Bosnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u48994	The Honorable Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, fellow Members and fellow MPs, today's law, that is, amending the Law on the Prevention of Discrimination of Persons with Disabilities, is a relatively short law and it predominantly refers to members of the basic law 34 and 52, essentially to Article 34, given that Article 52 actually redefines criminal provisions. My predecessors, most colleagues spoke of the elements of the text of this law. I would like to focus my address in the Assembly and you ministers on what is actually my basic profession and my work in designing and promoting the need to equalise all citizens and in the design and construction phase, and in terms of respecting the equality of all citizens of Serbia. I believe that the basic law through a segment called discrimination regarding the provision of services and use of facilities and surfaces, and in Article 13(1) says - discrimination is prohibited based on disability in terms of the availability of services and access to facilities in public use and public areas. In point 3. says – Under public use facilities within the meaning of this law, facilities are considered in the fields of education, health, social protection, culture, sport, tourism and facilities used to protect the environment. Point 4. says – Under public areas within the meaning of this law, parks, green areas, squares, streets, pedestrian crossings and other public traffic areas are considered. In Section 5a. Paragraph 3 is said as a sublimation, in fact, what is discrimination? Discrimination is a refusal to perform a technical adaptation of facilities, necessary to provide services to disabled users. I'm very glad that one of my colleagues mentioned it and I'm very glad that you, Mr. Minister, have personally informed us of everything the Ministry has done in this regard. You said it yourself, and of course we're all aware that it's relatively slightly insufficient and that our operation has to be much wider. I have deliberately counted what all of this falls into public buildings, public areas, and what it is we have to do to make available citizens with disabilities. In 2012, The government has adopted a rule on technical standards on accessibility. This rule is, for my opinion, a professional opinion is relatively late adopted, but well, thank God it's been passed, but since 2012, clearly defined parts of the facility, parts of the public surface, parts of the premises within all these facilities that must be designed, designed to make all of them available to citizens with special needs. This rule defines how they should look approaching the facility, pedestrian ramps, wheelchairs, stairs and stairs, elevators, lift platforms. It defines movement, the rules of movement in his building according to the dimensions of the space through which disabled persons move. Using individual spaces in buildings, defines how to design and build public toilets. Then, the elements of the equipment. So, in order for users, today we're talking about how people with special needs, look-alike faces or faces who have the inability to use the signature the way we use it, we're talking about them, but we need to remember that all the counters should be made available to those faces. Among other things, the rule says that it should be designed equipment, what tents, counters, public phone booths should look like. Of course, it defines what public spaces should look like, outdoor spaces, sidewalks, hiking trails, parking spaces. I think as far as these hiking trails are concerned, the parking lot, it seems to me that perhaps the most that's happened and it's good that it is. Then, it should be implemented in equipment and orientation systems. I deliberately counted everything the rulebook says, simply to call, to remind us all, to call all those working on first design, construction, and then to reconstruct objects that are public, which must also be available to people with special needs. I'd like to finally just say that we're aware of what some of the objects that use people with disabilities look like. You know that even health institutions, you know that even some of the rehabilitation centres don't have all the rooms equally available to all users of these facilities. It's good and it's nice when we have a swimming pool built in the Republic center, but it's not good when that pool, I say conditionally, is more used for recreation than for rehabilitation of patients. You have to allow a patient who moves in a wheelchair to enter that pool and get it out of that pool and, of course, should not be health care professionals who will do it, there must be special equipment for that. I know this may not be the main topic of today's law, but I had a need to especially stress in my address on architectural barriers and, of course, you won't mind me, it's a job that I do, and I am very specific about affirming space, and in the direction of accessibility for all Serbian citizens. Mr. Minister, I want to tell you that, of course, MPs of the SDPS will support this law, amend the basic law. But I also want to tell you that the members of our party on the ground are already actively promoting this Regulation, because there is awareness of ignorance, ignorance and we, through our actions on the ground, are trying to make local self-governments, relevant brochures indicate how we should actually design a space for public use. The regulation, fortunately, predicted a very large number of graphic attachments. He's pretty clear, and I think it would be good if we all acted accordingly. I thank you for thinking and for redefining your rights and obligations through the law, and for constantly improving our rights and obligations, but I also ask you, as part of your ability, to try to establish control over constructions, reconstructions of public buildings and space, because once we have reconstructed an object, I think that we should still give priority to reconstructions in the direction of availability, and less redesigning furniture, cabinet equipment and offices. Of course I'm not saying I shouldn't, but I'm sure this should be a priority. When we adapt and reconstruct public toilets, as you said yourself, they should be over-designed, reconstructed so that people who move in wheelchairs are available, and priority should not be expensive tiles or quality equipment. Once again, the SDPS will support this law, and I thank you for promoting the realisation of the rights of persons with special needs.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u48995	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u48996	It certainly, as you well know, is not something that will happen overnight and we will not succeed in sensitizing our society in that sense, nor will we be able to make each of the public surfaces available, but that we must work on it every day, we must. That's why there's a state, that's why there's organisations, anyway, that's why there's a disability movement, just to fight it. Just to draw your attention to a few of the activities we've taken, which don't mean much to the general population, but people with disabilities mean a lot to them, and I think they're a good guideline. For the first time since last year, we started to bring in co-operation with the Public Service, with RTS, the title of domestic series. Again, something that needs to be remembered. In particular, it was Lipa Street and we are now working "Neighbors". You see, you have people who can't watch "Neighbors", they can't watch "Lippy Street" even though they're all looking around. It's a way to at least share the sentiment of the rest of society by something. We hope and we will certainly do this to bring the information program to the greatest extent possible to the users, I am talking about deaf people and hearing impaired people. You know that's the problem. You know how it works. It's very hard to do at the right time, but at least in a shorter, delayed one. Anyway, and we do that and this year we keep doing it with the Public Service, but it's something we must at least try to expand using modern technologies and on other televisions, not just the Public Service. He has an obligation to do this, but let's see if private television, especially with national frequency, can help us in the same way. I'm sure we'll find understanding on their part, too, since the Ministry is here to help. For example, we have introduced a very interesting and fully innovative form of assistance to people deaf and deaf, and that is, together with, that I am not advertising now, but with a big phone provider, so, out-of-budging means, we have provided that there is a centre for now in Belgrade, where deaf and deaf persons can, by means of pills, be involved, open a connection, get communication with their sign language interpreter, what is in the bank, can't be explained to someone, this is a way to warn their problem, seek a solution and an interpreter takes over the solution to this problem, will telephone and will agree with what is needed. He'll schedule a meeting, call a doctor, or anything he can't do at some point. It's something that really shows extraordinary results. So, he doesn't have to go with his interpreter all the time, but if he needs it, he'll call an interpreter and he'll be completely free of charge. We've completely solved that, and we've gotten most of it from out-of-budget funds. Now we're working intensively on it, say, with a parking service in Belgrade, to introduce an application where a disabled person will know where the free parking space is for him. And when he gets to that parking spot, so he's gonna be able to get information on it right away, and when he comes in and sees some arrogant driver who's in his parking spot, he's gonna have a very simple app that immediately informs the service that someone's parked in the place that belongs to him. You see, simple things that essentially change life. It doesn't have to be all budgeted. It can also be done by hiring social-responsible jobs that want to help. Last year we put the first tactile board in front of the temple of St. Sava. You and I don't understand why it is, but you know, when you talk to representatives of the Association of Blind and Weak, they say literally – I first see what the temple of the Holy Sava looks like. And that changes life. We want to keep going that way. It's working on a lot, a lot of things, and every little step makes life a better life and makes it fairer. That's what we do.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u48997	Thank you. The word is by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u48998	Thank you. Mr. Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, as we have already heard, today we are considering a bill to supplement the Law on the Prevention of Discrimination of Persons with Disabilities. The discussion has already repeatedly explained what the supplement of the Law on the Prevention of Discrimination of Persons with Disabilities is. It is essential to allow people with disabilities who have permanent consequences of physical or sensory damage or disease, to be able to sign a seal with the help of a seal containing identity information or with the help of a seal with a signed signature. Our MP group Boris Tadic-SDS-ZZS-ZS will support this bill because we have always expressed our views in the work so far that any kind of discrimination must be prevented, especially for people with disabilities, because this is a particularly sensitive and vulnerable group. I do not say the category on purpose, as is usually said – the category of people, because categorization can also be a form of discrimination. The amendment we have submitted has already been discussed by fellow Djurisic, and we will talk more when the debate is in particular. It is good that Mr. Minister and what the ministry has seen is the need to address this problem and to propose an addition to the law. The adoption of this law makes it easier for people with disabilities who cannot be signed because of the disability or damage of the eyesight authority and to exercise their rights before public authorities, and under the public authorities, according to this law, are state bodies, territorial autonomy and local self-government bodies, organisations entrusted with the exercise of public authority, legal entities established in general or in part in the Republic of Serbia, territorial autonomy or local self-government, but in everyday activities, banks, tourist organisations and similar places. This restores dignity to these individuals, facilitates the performance of jobs and the inclusion of everyday life in a human and equal way with all others. This law is complemented, developed, complemented by an existing system of assistance, protection and inclusion of persons with disabilities in everyday life. There, Mr. Minister, you were wrong when you said that much has been done in the last three years, unlike the previous period. Let me remind you that this is an upgrade to the adoption and application of already existing and valid regulations. First of all, the Constitution gave a legal basis for the adoption of such regulations. Then, the Law on the Prevention of Discrimination of Persons with Disabilities, which we are considering today, was adopted in 2006. Immediately after 2007, a strategy was adopted to improve the situation of people with disabilities in the Republic of Serbia. Then, in 2009, the law, passed by the Assembly, confirmed the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which was adopted by the UN General Assembly at the 61st meeting in December 2006. Also, I would like to remind you that the 2009 Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities was adopted in 2013. So, for years, legal basis and regulations have existed. The question is how many are applied. During the application, there are always shortcomings or needs to regulate some more questions that I think are still the case that the law has shown the need to carry out its addition. There was a huge shift when it began to be spoken publicly about people with disabilities, to understand and to see their needs in order to create conditions for their inclusion in everyday life. In an earlier period, these individuals were invisible in society, and their needs were not spoken of. I'm convinced, based on what I've brought out and what's already on the river here today, that these times are far behind us and that we're just going to develop a system of protection and help these people get involved more normally in everyday life. Our parliamentary group advocates, and I conclude from the discussion that the entire society also supports that existing regulations are applied as consistently as possible and that their constant improvement creates better conditions. I would also have to say, Mr. Minister, in your address you stated, and part of it is written in the light of the law, that these persons, who are allowed in this way to sign, by supplementing this law, are actually written and understand their signature. They are written and understand their signature, but it doesn't matter that they understand their signature, they need to understand very well the acts they sign and what their signature means. I'm convinced they understand, because among these people there are very educated, those who use their time to improve their knowledge. I'm going to give an example that I think should serve as an example to most people. The Vrsac City Museum employs a disabled person who has the disability of the lower limbs and moves only through a wheelchair. She finished art history and did practice at the museum. Then, she passed the state exam, specialized in curators. She was also in America for a specialization. I have to say, we fought for three years to get a job and she did work at the museum. It has such knowledge that it can contribute greatly to the work of museums, the arrangement of a collection that represents one of the largest collections in the region, and on the other hand, its employment is a major shift in the quality of life and of her and her family. In order to better understand people with disabilities and better regulate and bring regulations that regulate how they function, as the colleague said, we should spend more time with them. When the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities was passed, I said that in Vrsac, in the 1990s, a company was established for professional training, rehabilitation and employment of people with disabilities and persons distracted in development. Unfortunately, at some point the municipalities no longer understood even though she was one of the co-founders and left the company without business premises and it stopped working. In this company, we have trained three deaf persons for a tailoring craft that now have their own activities, of which they live and their families and thus engage in regular life. Only through these direct contacts with people with disabilities can we look at their needs and propose further amendments to the law and improve the regulations that regulate that matter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u48999	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Grozdan Banac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49000	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister with associates, respected citizens, dear fellow MPs, the PUPS parliamentary group has in its programme as a target group of people with disabilities, as well as all other vulnerable groups. It's our target group, which we take very carefully care of, care and work for, no matter what funny it is to you, Mr. Deputy Minister. We've been doing this for many years and we're very familiar with these problems and all these target groups are with us in very good cooperation. I will only point out on behalf of the PUPS parliamentary group that our President, Mr Milan Krkobiæ, I think, in one pioneering work, is very dedicated, together with him we have helped to really do everything possible for these target groups at a given time and in certain circumstances. The reasons why amendments and additions to the Law on the Prevention of Discrimination of Persons with Disabilities are proposed and relate to the prevention of discrimination and the provision of equality, i.e. the exercise of equal rights of persons with disabilities who, due to the nature of their disability, physical or sensory damages, are not capable of being signed by themselves. Persons with disabilities are not illiterate, nor have problems with the understanding of the contents of different letters, but are only for the reasons of their permanent physical disability in the inability to sign themselves by hand in situations where the signature is required in the exercise of a right, the pursuit of legal work or the provision of a service. Given that the possibility of using a stamp with a etched signature, facsimile, in our system is not arranged, the very people with disabilities who have faced such problems have been initiated procedures to protect equality in accordance with the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination. On the basis of such requirements, the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, which, in his opinion, was given in the context of the case of disabling the use of fax in front of the municipal administration, pointed to the provisions of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, ratified in 2009, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, the Law on the Prevention of Discrimination of Persons with Disabilities. On the basis of Article 4(1)b, the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities of States has committed itself to taking all appropriate measures including legislation to amend or abolish existing laws, regulations, customs and practices which constitute discrimination against persons with disabilities. Article 5 The Convention provides for the obligation of the State to provide effective protection against discrimination to persons with disabilities, Article 9 provides for the obligation to identify and remove different barriers, the accessibility of the physical environment, transport, information and communication, services intended for the public. Article 12(5) of the Convention provides, inter alia, for the right of persons with disabilities to manage property and to carry out legal transactions, including financial affairs. By adopting the proposed amendments and supplementing the law, Serbia will consistently harmonize its regulations with the provisions of the Convention. Given all of these arguments and reasons, the United Pensioners Party will unreservedly support this amendment and the addition of the Law and, of course, as a member of the Working Group, I will be as long as I have been involved for years, because I have been very involved for a five-year period in the Voždovac Municipality, which has very well aligned it, because local self-governments also have an obligation, but they do not do so to apply this Convention, to apply the funds they have defined for this population. Therefore, the United Pensioners' Party will continue to support its target group, closely monitor and assist in theirs, just so they are resuscitated, that they can be involved, as will all the rest of the civilian world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49001	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Jovana Jovanovic. He's not here. The word has a folk MP, Gordana Topic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49002	Thank you. The President-in-Office, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, draft law supplementing the Law on the Prevention and Discrimination of Persons with Disabilities, States and this time shows that it fulfils the commitments made by the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Strategy for improving the situation of persons with disabilities in the Republic of Serbia. In particular, it is the amendment of Article 34, which means the signing of a sealing document containing personal identity information or a etched signature. Also, that the ministry and government have once again shown understanding and co-operation with institutions and organisations dealing with the problem of people with disabilities, so at the initiative of the National Organisation of Persons with Disabilities of Serbia and the Alliance of Blind Serbia, because this matter has not been regulated before by any regulation, it has been resolved by supplementing the Law. Thus, this amendment allows the seal to be equidistant with its own signature, i.e. by means of a stamp containing personal data in front of the competent authorities for persons with disabilities. This legal solution is to remove another barrier, and one more step is to equalise the rights of disabled persons, who, because of physical or sensory damage or because of some other diseases, are unable to sign. I had a chance to talk to people who cared and who worked with people with disabilities, and at first they were a little reserved about this kind of solution and because of the fear of abuse. However, abuse is almost impossible because the legal procedure for all is the same and implies that before the signing itself, i.e. The stamping shall be accompanied by proof of identity by an identity card or by some other official photo document. I would also like to stress that this amendment does not alter the regulation relating to documents representing the form of a contract or other legal transaction, but remains subject to the regulations governing the signature and confirmation of the document and the Law on the certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcriptions, which relate to persons with disabilities. For example, because of the blindness or some other reason, a person cannot read, the document must be read through a court interpreter in the presence of a public notary, and the signing of the signature clause as well as the signature and seal of the interpreters that he faithfully submitted the content. The introduction into the legislative regulation of a sealing document with personal data or a etched signature, in addition to respecting, respect for dignity, the achievement of equal opportunities and equality, simplifies the legal procedure especially in the process where the applicant of the document is unable to place a mark. This is another way of facilitating the everyday life of people with disabilities, the smooth exercise of rights and interests that require a personal signature, such as going to a bank, mail and the like. The addition of the Law, Article 52a, regulates criminal provisions, as it is in practice to prevent the use of the seal, while on the other hand, in Panchev, we had that the official explicitly insisted on the seal, so it is also good that criminal provisions sanction those legal and natural persons, as well as those responsible persons in the legal person, which prevent the use of the rights of persons with disabilities. I note that the seal is now being used as a signature, but it was not binding on state authorities and services, before which these persons exercise their rights, which this law removes, and will continue to be an equal use of the handbooks and stamps. We believe that this legal solution will improve the position of persons with disabilities in terms of their independence and independence in order to achieve all rights and responsibilities. As counterpart Mira Dragas said, in the day for the vote of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, she will support the amendment and addition of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49003	Thank you. The word is by MP Mirjana Djokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49004	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, we are talking today about a very important legislative amendment to the Law on the prevention of discrimination against persons with disabilities. Many issues and activities that regulate treatment for disabled people are no longer being a segment of social policy, but as a question of respect for human rights at all. The law we are talking about today is the first anti-discrimination law in the Republic of Serbia, which seeks to take risks from marginalising disabled persons and social exclusion to a minimum, because as a result of the development of the social community we should seek to make available to disabled people all services of modern society. This directly contributes to their great involvement in social flows, a complex multi-sector approach enables the implementation of many prevention and sensitisation plans on disability issues. The point in modern society is to ensure an adequate standard of life and the social security of disabled persons. Our government recognized the need to develop this multi-sectoral approach in the policy of measures, which affect the position of disabled persons, by moving their weights from long-term addiction and passive roles, to activate the potential and build capacity of disabled people, as well as creating opportunities for people with disabilities to become active and productive members of our entire society. In the everyday life of people with disabilities who, due to the nature of their disability, physical or sensory damage, or diseases, for example, suffer from various muscle and neuromuscular diseases or quadriplegia, as well as persons who have no upper extremities, are unable to sign and are often in a situation where they are required in many situations of life to place a fingerprint on a document instead of a handbook, or give power to another person who would be asked to sign them. All these situations represent discrimination on the basis of disability, given that in this way there is a difference and a restriction on the exercise of rights and therefore such behaviour has an effect on human rights violations and the freedom of persons with disabilities. Therefore, the introduction of a legal amendment to this law to allow disabled persons to use a seal containing personal identity data has come under the support of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, in view of the 2009 Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The support of this legislative supplement was given by representatives of the National Organisation of Persons with Disabilities and the Alliance of Blind Serbia, so an initiative was launched to address this problem in an adequate manner. This initiative is not only a mere exercise of rights, but it is the freedom of choice to enter, access, communicate or otherwise use basic human rights. Dear colleagues, it is a terrible feeling to be in a position not to sign, and you must fully be responsible for participating in all the life opportunities that are imposed in everyday life. You are faced with the barrier and the inability to give your hand signature, and this barrier is overcome with one such measure, i.e. by signing the use of the seal as a hand-signature in situations where necessary. Such a move enables individual independence, independence of persons with disabilities, full and effective participation and inclusion in society, respect for differences and acceptance of persons with disabilities as works of human diversity, availability of equal opportunities and equality of persons with disabilities. I sincerely believe that on this point in our Parliament, we are all like-minded, that the adoption of this legislative supplement is the best way to solve problems and an adequate arrangement so far unregulated areas. It is clear that all interested forces have been given the opportunity to plead, make their proposals and possible suggestions. Immediately after the vote of this legislative amendment, information campaigns are envisaged with the aim of informing the public, public authorities and providers of different services on the obligation to provide signatures with the assistance of the seal containing personal identity data, or with the help of the stamp with the engraved signature of a disabled person who, due to the permanent consequences of physical or sensory damage or disease, is not able to be signed by hand. This law does not provide for the adoption of general acts which are subject to the regulation. Finally, I think the basic objective of this legal change is respect for dignity, individual autonomy, individual independence, including the right for people with disabilities to make decisions on their own life. The constant struggle to increase equal opportunities, greater participation and social inclusion must be the imperative of our society, and this is exactly what these efforts are recognized and evaluated and, as you can see, reflected through our government's policy. As an example, they can indicate how many positive effects the introduction of personal assistants has had, and this activity has proved to be an excellently designed measure that has made a huge contribution that further promotes the activation and independence of people with disabilities. This government and the resolutely in charge ministry know perfectly that a huge number of people with disabilities live either on the border or below the poverty line and that the high percentage of people with disabilities belongs to a supported person, or they are pensioners. I would sincerely like this step and the proposed legislative change to be a good example for policy makers who seek to develop a unique standard, methodology and procedures in this area, in order to improve the position of disabled people in today's society. Realising the seriousness of this problem, in Vote Day, along with my colleagues from the SNS parliamentary group, I will support this legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49005	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49006	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, there are three reasons why I am voting for this bill that the government has sent to the Assembly and today is in debate. The first reason concerns our position in society about people with disabilities. We live in a society whose language is rich in ugly expressions about people with disabilities, with damages of any kind. We live in a society where until recently it was understood that these people are invisible, unwanted -- not him, not her. We live in a society where the narrative had even uglier expressions than sometimes, unfortunately, we use them without realizing how insulting we are to people with disabilities. The minister explained the law well. He'd have to do two important things. First, to help directly people with disabilities in their daily lives, which is essential. Secondly, to those who stare at how much discrimination there is in our society towards people with disabilities helps to open at least one eye and to see that we are all human beings, with very similar needs and with the exact same rights before the law. That's the first reason my vote goes to this law. Another reason is the hope that the adoption of this law, our debate on improving the conditions under which we, people who do not have disability, and we do not know what ease we are carrying out during the day, is therefore the second reason we hope to see which more social groups we are inclined to see, which all social groups are still inclined to view as undesirable in society. A social group of very old people or a social group of children we hide very often are victims of violence. Social groups that are neglected are older women who live alone, who are often not seen by society. For every regulation that the Government makes, whether I support the Government or I am an opposition, who will change and put light on these social groups, on old women living alone, on old people living without communication, so I'm not talking about economic position, I'm not talking about money, we don't have a problem seeing these people and accepting them as desirable in our local communities, for every such law I'm going to vote for, because it's going to be a little step forward to correcting the various injustices that we as a society were prone to when it comes to persons with disabilities. The third reason is to show that we are really doing something when it comes to changes on Serbia's European path, that we are capable, however difficult it is, to apply laws that imply that human rights laws are from chapters 23 and 24 or general political criteria of European integration, which we vote on, which we read about reasons, sometimes without understanding how much it takes to change the quality of life of someone, a woman or a man with disabilities or, with permanent or temporary damage, in an age group that implies having less social attention than it should be. With the hope that there will be a report within three months of the adoption of the witness law on how well it is applied, I repeat, these are three reasons why I am giving my vote for the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49007	Thank you. The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49008	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, fellow Members of Parliament and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, is presently one of the very important laws, and this is a proposal to supplement the Law on the Prevention of Discrimination of Persons with Disabilities and yet another step forward by this government and the competent ministry to improve the situation of persons with disabilities in preventing their discrimination and, of course, to improve the quality of their lives. What is the basis of this law? It comes first and foremost from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, followed by the 2009 UN Convention, which precisely states in Article 4(1) that the States are obliged to bring an adequate legal framework to ensure that persons with disabilities are equal in the exercise of all their rights with other citizens. Of course, the basis for the adoption of laws and the Strategy for improving the position of people with disabilities. This is the third law in order to improve the quality of life of people with disabilities. I can't help but mention the previous laws which and how they affected the position of the deaf and the deaf and the deaf, and as regards the Law on the Use of Sign Language and for the first time the introduction of interpreters, as titles, in this law, which certainly has great advantages because deaf and deaf persons can also benefit from the service of interpreters through association in the exercise of their rights. Also, what I have to say is, we're talking about the number of people with disabilities here, somewhere this data tells us that there are 10% of the total population, somewhere there's 15%, since a long period of time, almost two decades, we've been looking for some basic data and we haven't come to them, this Ministry has shown effort and the legislative framework has introduced a unique record of people with disabilities, and based on the fact that local associations will be supplying a list of persons with disabilities each year, and the competent alliances will deliver to the Ministry, where this long-term injustice will be corrected in this way, so we'll have accurate and accurate records. In any case, as regards the law mentioned, it is the additions of Articles 34 and 34 and the addition of Article 52 relating to criminal provisions. These provisions of the law are all small, but also important because they are essential for persons with disabilities, primarily for blind and impaired persons and distrophysants, who, in actions, or in acts before public authorities, are the authorities of the state administration, these are units of local self-government, meaning in the exercise of their rights, and of course other public authorities, which are financed by the Republic, province or budget of local self-government, can instead of signatures, which they cannot give, use an alternative form - facsimile, i.e. a seal with a etched personal identity. Have the associations spoken before, and have people with disabilities previously addressed someone with sensory and physical impairment? It's been a long time. Only after ten years, thanks primarily to the recognition of the competent ministry, the adequate recognition of this need, comes before us today by the MPs. What is a special quality of this law, and what I also want to praise, is that these changes and additions have been done in close co-operation, with the suggestion and participation of the National Alliance of Persons with Disabilities and the Alliance of Blind and scrupulous Republics of Serbia. Only through their active participation and their active participation in the adoption of legislation regarding the exercise of their rights can a quality and complete law be passed. This law is high-quality, this law is complete, this law concerns respect for personal dignity, innate personal dignity, respect for diversity. The government of the Republic of Serbia, the Resort Ministry is strategically defined to work to prevent all forms of discrimination, and here it is specifically about preventing discrimination against persons with disabilities, with these two damages, sensory and physical. What I must stress is that the development of social protection services at local level, in accordance with the law, is in the jurisdiction of local self-government, but the Ministry of Labour, Employment and thus recognises the financial support needs of the association at local level and, in this respect, a competition for projects concerning the programme activities of the association has been opened throughout the year, as well as for programmes concerning improving the quality of persons with disabilities. 33 such projects were approved yesterday. I must also point out that in 2015 a great deal of effort has been made and since 2009 the first time the largest number of people with disabilities has been employed, it is 4,913, and certainly their inclusion is in line with their abilities in the work and how significantly the Ministry is committed and responsible for doing so. There is no doubt for the SNS that they will support the proposed legislative supplements in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49009	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Irena Alexic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49010	Thank you. I would like, above all, to point out that the main objective of the law we are discussing today is to improve the situation of persons with disabilities. As many of my colleagues pointed out, this is not the first law to be discussed in this congregation that has the same goal, which is to improve the position of people with disabilities. We recently adopted two similar laws in this house – the Law on Movement with the help of a guide dog and the Law on the Use of Sign Language. I think that, in itself, speaks enough of certain accusations we've heard today at the Ministry's expense, whether it's done quickly enough, whether it's done sufficiently. I think it speaks of a relatively short period of time, that three laws have been passed, that it speaks enough about not saving energy or effort in the resolution ministry to really improve the lives of people with disabilities. In particular, when it comes to the draft law supplementing the Law on the Prevention of Discrimination of Persons with Disabilities, this law will enable persons who, because of the specificity of their disability, are unable to give their own signature. In the future, thanks to this law, they will be able to do so with the help of the seal on which they are located or their name is etched, or with the help of the seal on which their personal data are found. So far, the people who had such a kind of disability have been, to put it this way, in a truly indescribable position because whenever they had to make their own signature, they asked them to either leave a fingerprint, which, we agree today, in itself, is not about people who are illiterate enough to go through such one treatment and through such one procedure, or they were forced to make out with another person who would sign on their behalf, which, in itself, is one particular procedure, and once again, I would say, unnecessarily more complicated. Indeed, the use of the seal, what is most important, will prevent discrimination, but it will make life easier for people with disabilities. It's just that everything is going to go much faster, much simpler, everything is going to be more accessible to them, which is very important. What we're all doomed to every day, so it's a bank, post office, different institutions, everyday life is tiring enough for all of us, and there's no need really for our fellow citizens with disabilities to be harder and harder and harder, so this law is just working to make this everyday life the same as with people who don't have disabilities. Of course, there was a question as to whether there was a possibility of abuse of a possible seal. Of course, there is no possibility of even the slightest misuse of the seal, because using the seal also requires a ID card or any other document that will confirm the identity of the person wearing the seal, and thus it is visible who is the person with the disability, so there is really no possibility of possible abuse. What I think is very good is that there are fines between 5,000 and 50,000 and 10,000 to 100,000 dinars. I think, when it comes to laws like this, it's really good that there are fines because nothing better reminds the citizens that the law needs to be respected and if they don't respect it, if they choose to go deaf about it, to ignore the same, that and how they can pay. So it's really the best motive to respect the law properly. At the very end, I would like to point out what is the point and what I really believe deeply, and all the other MPs believe that the positions, the ruling structure, are that the state really needs to do everything in its power, and above all by law and by making sure that the laws are implemented effectively in the best possible way, which is that it really needs to protect people with any form of disability. What is mostly said, when it comes to discrimination, is mostly the story of active discrimination, but what I would draw attention to, at the very end of my exposure, attention, it may be an even more dangerous form of discrimination, and that is passive discrimination. You know, you don't always have to hurt someone actively to hurt them. Sometimes it's much worse, much more dangerous, to say, much more insidious not doing or bypassing which, I'm sure, those with disabilities often face. It is to be regularly bypassed when someone is making career progress, which they and how they deserve or to be bypassed in finding work even though the state, the Resort Ministry is doing everything in its best power by giving incentives to be employed. I don't do it regularly, I don't do it by bypassing, and that's what it is. passive discrimination which simply leads to people with disabilities being discouraged, to withdraw. What's coming then? There's a classic social exclusion. That's what we really need to fight actively and what we have to fight actively. There I would really commend the Resorient Ministry of Labour, Employment, Social and Combat Affairs, that there are really no charges, that something could have been faster, better. Of course, it can always be better, but also how this ministry has shown both enthusiasm and a constructive and creative attitude and indeed one great activity in overcoming these and similar problems. So such human and similar laws will always come upon our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49011	The word has been made by the People's MP Milena Turk.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49012	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, we have before us amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Discrimination of Persons with Disabilities and these amendments have been made on the basis of a number of requests from persons with disabilities and on the basis of the need for these regulations to comply with the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, with regulations and the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It is our duty as an individual to do everything, to root out discrimination, to do everything possible to make this society reach a point in which it will be able to say that all citizens with the same rights and equal opportunities. It's a big job ahead of us, so, uh, breaking barriers and prejudice. We have to do a lot of work on ourselves. We must accept people with disabilities as equal and full members of our society as productive and useful members and do everything we can to help them strengthen, motivate and engage in all aspects of our society. What will bring about changes to the law we are discussing today is ensuring the equal position of persons with disabilities in front of institutions. This is one big step in the development of democracy in Serbia, as the foundation of every democratic society is just a ban on discrimination. This is confirmed by numerous international documents. This also highlights the permanent commitment of the government of the Republic of Serbia to grant equal rights to all its citizens and Serbia has committed to changing all regulations and all laws, customs or to put them out of force if it will contribute to the eradication of discrimination against persons with disabilities. These changes achieve equal rights of disabled persons who, due to the nature of their disability, whether it is sensory or physical damage, are unable to sign. This is not about a person not understanding the content that needs to be signed or illiterate, but about their ability to sign physically. It has been observed that people with disabilities are often asked to place a fingerprint or to empower another person, to give him power of attorney when it comes to signing and exercising rights through that signature, however, this really violates human rights. The use of signatures in alternative form is not specified in the law, but disabling the use of facsimile really violates human rights and the principle of equality. Using the seal as a signature whether it contains an embedded signature or a engraved data will enable people with disabilities to respect dignity, independence and independence as well as participation in society and their acceptance. The issue of abuse is raised, however, as the seal requires and use of a personal document as well as identification, abuse is reduced to a minimum. We still need to inform society and institutions about the obligation to enable people with disabilities to be signed through this seal. In this way, implementation will be fully implemented. In voting day, I'd be happy to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49013	The People's Messenger Nevenka Milosevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49014	I thank the chairman. Dear fellow ministers, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are monitoring our work today, there are over 800,000 people with disabilities in Serbia. The definition of this Government of the Republic of Serbia, but also of the Resolute Ministry, the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, is precisely preventing discrimination against persons with disabilities, but it is also enabling one equal position of persons with disabilities, which means respect for their dignity, their independence, their independence, their involvement in all social life flows. It is just an inclusion that we all talk about very much, but it's not enough to just talk about. This government and the ministry have not only recognized many problems but also identified them and how they work and solve them. When we look at this bill on supplementing the Law on the prevention of discrimination against persons with disabilities, we see that it is very short, but that does not mean, it means something else that it solves a very important problem. The essence of this bill is precisely to enable disabled persons who have permanent physical damage or a sensory or disease issue so that they can give their signature on certain documents through a stamp which will contain personal identity or seal data that will have a engraved signature. It's not little, it's a really big step forward in improving the disability situation. It has been said many times that we have already made several legislative proposals here in the Assembly and adopted, which contribute to improving the situation of people with disabilities, one of them is this one. I must say, in everyday life, people with disabilities still face many problems. Let's say, when they come to some institutions, they're asked to give their fingerprints or to determine someone who will represent them and sign them for them. This is exactly what we're going to prevent and raise our dignity to these people. I must say that this bill, by supplementing the bill, does not require any additional resources from our citizens or businesses, that this bill does not require the adoption of any other general acts but that precise criminal measures are provided for for all those which will prevent the exercise of one such right. Otherwise, this bill was initiated by other associations, which is the National Organisation for Persons with Disabilities of Serbia as well as the Alliance of Blind Serbia. I think it's a good thing that we're going to apply this law, that there's an information campaign. That in the right way we will inform our citizens, all legal entities, all holders of certain services on the essentials of how this right is realized. Dear Minister, I would like to say that during a very short period of time you have already visited Ivanjic twice. You recently visited the daily "Sun" where you handed over the licenses to Mrs Svetlana Glavinić, who is headed by this institution, which has a number of good results. This is another in a number of examples of good practice dealing with people with disabilities and disabilities. I'm sure you'll continue. Because it's good when a minister goes through Serbia, visits institutions, visits cities and municipalities, because this is the best way to see a real picture on the ground. At the very end, not ambiguous, not suspiciously, along with MPs and MPs of the Serbian Progressive Party, we will certainly support this draft law on supplementing the Law on the prevention of discrimination against persons with disabilities in the day of voting.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49015	The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49016	I just want to thank you for the discussions we've had so far and for understanding everything that we're actually doing, and for the general policy of the Ministry and for the law that is before you. Yeah, I like to come see how people work, see what they need and see how we can solve problems. And no place where I was, including Ivanjic, was chosen by accident, but it wasn't without doing anything, we contributed something, we changed something, we provided something. Whether it's funding, whether it's some other help, but it's never going, or at least from my ministry, we're never going anywhere without doing anything or not agreeing on what we're going to do in the future. I think that's a little different from some other behavior and some other forms. Ivanica must have exceeded her size by the quality of the services in the community she has, and that is something I would like to point out as an example to other local self-government that should go in that direction. Without local self-government, it is impossible to solve the problem of involvement and it is impossible to solve the problem of helping people with disabilities, without local community participation. We need services in the community. They will be financed by the state in part, but local self-government must also participate in it. It's just that it's not possible otherwise. As you know, this year we have scheduled a major competition for community services, I hope we can make it by the end of February to go to Serbia with it, which is 400 million dinars. Last year he was 50 million dinars. Now 400, with the involvement of local self-government. We will be able to network all of Serbia with quality services in the community, so that no municipality will be without a daily stay for children distracted by development, that no municipality will be without any alternative forms of assistance to the family and assistance in the community. We certainly need local self-government for that, for that we need the support of the entire society. Let me give you another example, because of the messages they've been saying. You're social security, you know what the system is and how it works. It has nothing to do with people with disabilities, but it has to do with our system. The second name of our system is humanity. We exist because of people and exist to be with them because they need us. Even after those terrible floods, from Obrenovac and beyond, the ministry passed a special rule on emergency handling. Here, this year it snowed in one part of Serbia, in the east, it was quite unpleasant. Each of our centers is in accordance with the rulebook that was brought in, but I'm sure they would do it without the regulations, but now we've done it specifically, and here's another year as we've been doing it neatly, making sure that he's gone through and checked every single person's financial welfare, every child from foster families, old people living in some hard-to-reach areas, some villages where he can't come. The social protection system, where it was threatened, took part in everyday life and reported to the ministry precisely, in number and name, whether everyone was fed, whether everyone had heating, whether it was prone to heat or food, where our child is, where one of those we are obliged to care about. What I'm talking about - it can't be paid. And there was no item in the budget – in the event of emergency circumstances, increased involvement of a social worker. It's not. But every social worker has fulfilled his duty. This law actually shows that we do our duty and that we are proud when we do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49017	Thank you. Ljiljana Malusic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49018	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with guests from the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, today I will talk about the draft law supplementing the Law on the prevention of discrimination against persons with disabilities. The Republic of Serbia is primarily based on the rule of law, social justice, the principles of civil democracy, human and minority rights and freedoms, as well as the values we have taken from the EU. Of course, we are an EU accession and as such we take everything that is good from that EU. It's a beautiful law. There's a lot of debates about this law, the addition of the law, so I'm talking about this with one empathy today, because I'm very glad. I know that in the last five years more than four thousand and 900 people have been employed, which is great, bravo for the Ministry. First of all, it should be said that we are all equal before the Constitution and the law. The Republic of Serbia regulates and provides a system in the field of social and disability protection, which is very important. The Republic of Serbia has been permanently defined to prevent discrimination against people with disabilities. Discriminations in this country will slowly be gone and that's great. First of all, our strategy also consists of improving conditions for people with disabilities and prohibiting discrimination at any level. Great. Being different means being different from us, but being a part of us. The truth is that there are risks in our society and that marginalized groups are somehow underprotected. It's been working on it for five years, and it's been changing. I'm happy about that. Being different means being in the neighborhood with us, and us, who knows how someone's watching us. And we're different, who knows what's wrong with us. It's not hard to be nice. It's nice to help people, because by helping others, we help ourselves. That's why we're on this planet. What I would point out is that discrimination on any basis will not be, as the Republic of Serbia is working intensively on it. Even the Trustees have made their proposal, many conventions and documents are just based on a better position for disabled people and that discrimination never happens again. It's our attitude and we'll never give it up. Today we talk primarily about people with disabilities who, unfortunately, have no upper extremities, but are very intelligent and simply perhaps not in a position to sign a bank account or anything else. I think it's one statement from society and of course we're going to vote, which is why I'm here today, the bill of this law, because I need to introduce that seal with personal data or fax signatures. First of all, because a man feels independent. There has been an opportunity so far, and it was only possible to function by giving the person with disabilities the authority of someone else to do it for her. Now, when we have declared this law as one wonderful act of love, first and foremost all of us here in the Parliament, a man will feel powerful, protected and independent and that's the point. And it's an inclusion. It's not an inclusion removing the barrier. Of course, we're trying and there's already a law on that on local self-government. Local self-government is one that will deal with this problem more, because it's a base. But something else, that social inclusion, that's the point of this law. Of course, by passing this law and by approving this seal, we will do so today, fortunately. The seal contains information about a personal identity or certified facsimile signature. What's very important is that there are not only barriers that concern eto physical, technical nature, but there are communication barriers, as well as economic social barriers, we are working on it. Here, we already have 5,000 employees. We'll work on a lot more. What I would point out is, first of all, that all are obliged to receive the seal, first of all, the public authorities, are obliged to place a seal on persons with disabilities with no upper extremities, weak and impaired. If that's not the case, they have sanctions ranging from 10 to 100 grand. I agree with that, and maybe there should be more punishment. Also, legal persons are required to receive a seal or a fax. If that doesn't happen, they too will be sanctioned. Well done for the Ministry, just keep up the good work. Of course, there will be an amendment. Who knows, in what month we're going to pass some new law, I'm pleased that the SNS, and I, with it, will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49019	Thank you. The word is made by MP Branka Jankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49020	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, respected citizens, today I will begin my presentation by quoting the provisions of the Law on the Prevention of Discrimination of Persons with Disabilities. I will say that persons with disabilities represent persons with innate or acquired physical, sensory, intellectual or emotional disability, who, due to social or other obstacles, do not have opportunities or have limited opportunities to engage in the activities of society at the same level as others, regardless of whether they can carry out the mentioned activities using technical assistance or support services. Therefore, disability is one common term for damages, restrictions on activity and restrictions on participation, as regards the negative aspects of interaction between the individual and its factors, i.e. personal or environmental factors. Many people with disabilities do not have access to health care, education, employment opportunities, not receiving services and services based on the disability they need and experience exclusion from their daily social activities. Once the UN has adopted the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and after this Convention has entered into force, disability is increasingly accepted as a human rights issue. Invalidity is also a very important development issue by increasing the amount of evidence that shows people with disabilities live in a worse socioeconomic situation and poverty than people without disabilities. The understanding and thinking of disability has changed in many ways since 1970, thanks to the higher initiative of disabled people and this growing tendency to view disability as human rights issues, and historically, the problems of people with disabilities have mostly been solved through segregation, such as separation to some special institutions or special schools. Politics today, however, is directed towards the community and inclusive education, and medical surveillance has replaced this interactive approach, acknowledging that people have disabilities based on an unadjusted environment, not only on body damage or the reduction of certain abilities. National and international initiatives, such as the UN, or their standard rules for equating opportunities for people with disabilities, have already been developed on the principle of human rights, culminating in acceptance and the already mentioned 2006 Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. In modern society, there are values based on the quantity and quality of production and knowledge. A person is worth as much as they produce. Production, therefore, has become a goal, and man is only a means to achieve that goal. In this environment, these criteria of humanity and humanity stemming from the realization that man himself is the most significant driver of his own development and the development of society at all. In this way disabled people become marginalized, often without being able to exercise basic human rights. It is necessary, therefore, to change the existing system in society. In order to fast a society that in practice reaches and implements politics that each individual has equal rights and opportunities, regardless of individual differences, the integration of disabled persons in society is imposed as one of the solutions to this problem. The necessary prerequisite for achieving this goal is to change attitudes towards disabled people, and this process, we must admit, is going very slowly. As the ultimate form of integration, a project of social inclusion or inclusion is being developed. This social model highlights the fundamental problem of society's relationship with people with disabilities. The basic idea of the model is that the damage that objectively exists should not be denied. However, it does not diminish the value of a person as a human being. What excludes people with disabilities from society are ignorance, prejudice and fear that prevails in society. Inclusion or social exclusion do not mean equalising all people, but precisely respecting these differences of each individual. This is the essence of the value of this model, because through the development of general tolerance it allows us to spread knowledge, gain experiences and develop humanity. The attitudes towards people with disabilities are not innate; they are acquired, learned through the prejudices of others. Changing these attitudes is a very complex and long-term process for a number of reasons. First of all, there is weak and insufficient information of citizens, so tradition and conservative understanding of what should be considered normal, and what is abnormal, passiveity of institutions and services, which are most connected to solving the problems of people with disabilities, and then the wrong and unequal attitudes of experts themselves towards people with disabilities. If, as a society, we want the change to occur, and the general attitude of the social community towards persons with disabilities changes, it is necessary to have this interaction between persons with disabilities and the rest of the social community. The first and hardest step is to involve children with disabilities in the system of regular education. So far, the practice has only met positive results when we talk about this interaction. The company must legally remove all obstacles to the employment of disabled persons and provide them with adequate social security. It is necessary to provide them with all rights as well as other citizens. It is also necessary that organisations of persons with disabilities in development, as well as parents' organisations, participate equally in the decision-making and adoption process. Otherwise, I must mention, the District Ombudsman estimated on December 3rd, the International Day of Persons with Disabilities, that numerous positive changes have been made in domestic legislation, but they are still in practice slowly, i.e. to live slowly, as they would say, which is why people with disabilities still cannot participate equally and actively in social life. The International Day of Persons with Disabilities has usually been marked since 1992 when the UN General Assembly adopted a Resolution calling on all countries to mark that day with the aim of enabling people with disabilities to enjoy equal human rights and equal participation in society. I also mention that it is estimated that between 7% and 10% of the population has some kind of disability or that is about 600 million people. One in 10 Europeans has some disability of physical, sensory, mental or mental character. Of that number, 50% of them are productive. People with disabilities are the poorest among the poor. A large number of people with disabilities live in a climate of discrimination, prejudice, ignorance, with often unsatisfactory elemental needs, and this disability brings special difficulties for women, children, old refugees. In Novi Sad, for example. There are 14,000 people with disabilities registered, while in Serbia there are estimated to be around 800,000, if my latest information is correct. A person with disabilities is a person with his rights, who is put in a position to be incapacitated by spatial, economic, social barriers that this person cannot overcome in the way that other citizens do. These barriers are often conditioned by lack of knowledge and awareness of disability. Persons with disabilities can participate equally in society if all physical barriers and obstacles to attitudes are removed. The concept of discrimination itself means making a difference positive or negative between people and things. If a person is treated unfairly and to his own harm simply because he belongs to a particular group of people, that is negative discrimination. By denying certain rights, discrimination results in inequality, subordination or withdrawal of political, educational, social, economic and cultural rights, means putting a person or groups in the same or similar situation in a more unfavourable position because of their disability. The causes of discrimination are often ignorance, power, vulnerability, fear, education as a form of conscious or unconscious, passing on their attitudes and understanding to children. The forms of discrimination are often through speech, through conduct, directly endangering the right to education, the right to work, the right to earn money. I would like to mention once again that the UN General Assembly adopted the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Option Protocol next to it unanimously on 13 December 2006. The Republic of Serbia signed the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Opposite Protocol with it on 17 December 2007. Following the harmonisation of the regulations of the Republic of Serbia with the provisions of the Convention, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia ratified the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Optional Protocol with it by voting on the Law on Confirmation of the Convention and the Optional Protocol, all on 29 May 2009. The Convention does not create any new rights for people with disabilities, but foresees what measures countries will take to enable disabled people to effectively achieve the civil, political, economic, social, cultural and all other rights that they otherwise belong to. The Convention prescribes the measures that states must take to enable people with disabilities to participate fully and evenly in all areas of social life on the basis of equality with others. States Parties accept that they provide and improve the full achievement of all human rights and fundamental freedoms for all persons with disabilities, without discrimination of any kind. The states are obliged to provide people with disabilities with effective legal protection against discrimination and the state of Serbia is on track to fully fulfil the obligation. To take into account today's bill of law, the reasons why this law is proposed to prevent discrimination and enable equality or the exercise of equal rights to persons with disabilities who, because of the nature of their disability, physical or sensory damage or disease, are not able to sign themselves. These persons are not illiterate or have a problem with understanding the contents of different letters, but only for the reasons of their permanent physical disability in the inability to sign themselves by hand in situations where the signature is required in the exercise of a right, the pursuit of legal work or the provision of a service. A lot of explanation and reasons for the adoption and application of the proposed additions to this Act have been attached. I fully accept them, so in the voting day, I will give full support to the proposed law, and I am particularly pleased that the full consensus of political organisations in this House of the National Assembly will be reached. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49021	Thank you. The word has been made by Parliamentarian Olivera Pesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49022	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, is in front of us today on the agenda of the Law on the Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Discrimination of Persons with Disabilities. The proposed amendments to this Act prevent discrimination against persons with disabilities, who are unable to sign themselves manually in situations where they are asked to do so, in situations where they are asked to sign a right, to perform a job or to provide services. Article 1 of this Act complements Article 34 of the applicable Law on the Prevention of Discrimination of Persons with Disabilities. By adding two attitudes relating to the obligation of the public authority to allow a person with disabilities who has permanent consequences of physical or sensory damage or disease, in addition to the signature of documents in a manner governed by a special regulation, to sign a document with the help of a seal containing personal identity information or with the help of a stamp with a attached signature. Article 2 of this Act complements the applicable Law on the Prevention of Discrimination of Persons with Disabilities, on the basis of which the obligation of legal and natural persons engaged in the provision of services allows a person with disabilities who has permanent consequences of physical or sensory damage or disease to use such services, by signing with the help of a seal containing information on personal identity or with the help of a stamp with an embedded signature. The concept of service is widely covered and enables the use of seals in banks, tourist facilities and other similar places. The addition of this law also refers to the provision of penalties for natural and legal persons, as well as the responsible person in the legal person for refusing to provide services by signing with the help of the stamp of persons with disabilities to whom these complements apply. For the offence, which I mentioned, the legal person is punished in the amount of between 10,000 and 100,000 dinars, the person responsible in the legal face of between 5,000 and 50,000 dinars, and the natural person for the offence, i.e. the disabling of the service of the person with the disability to which these are added in the amount of 5,000 to 50,000 dinars. In the database of the Association of Paraplegics and Quadriplegics of Serbia, out of 830 registered members with spinal cord injuries, 197 are people with tetraplegia. Statistics say that 40 people on an annual level get spinal cord injuries in car accidents that have consequences for the injured becoming wheelchair users, and one third of them are people with tetraplegia. Many of them are technically unable to sign or only one signature requires a lot of effort up to 15 minutes of their time. Such a signature is easily falsified, because every time it looks different. It's not often that a person with this kind of disability is asked to sign a thumbprint, which is humiliating to them. These additions only change three members, but I believe that by supplementing these three members can be improved in the many quality of life of persons with this type of disability. The alliances at Serbia level have registered about 12,000 blind and weak-sighted, 1715 people suffering from dystrophy and 1300 paraplegics and quadriplegics but unfortunately, this number is much higher than around 800,000. I hope that the amendments and additions of this law will improve at least a little bit of the quality of the life of these faces. The minister spoke about the efforts that the Ministry is making to generally improve the quality of life of people with disabilities in Serbia, and I would like to point out that the town of Leskovac, which I represent in this high House, is also in order to improve the situation of persons with disabilities to implement an active employment policy measure and subsidise businesses that employ persons with disabilities at an annual level and this active employment policy measure is being implemented in the city of Leskovac from 2013 until today, will be implemented in 2016 and 2017. The improvement of the lives of people with disabilities should be a common goal for all of us, and I will support this bill in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49023	Thank you. The word is from MP Vlado Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49024	The Honorable Chairman, the esteemed Mr. Minister with associates, distinguished fellow Members of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, today is on the agenda of the Bill on Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Discrimination of Persons with Disabilities. On December 3rd last year, an international day was marked for people with disabilities in all local self-governments, under the slogan "For a Life Without Barrier", and the motto of last year's markings was inclusion, empowerment and accessibility, and therefore the situation of disabled people must be constantly improved, especially when it comes to their legal and social situation. There is a good legal framework in Serbia, but there is still discrimination against people with disabilities in many areas of social life. Since the first negotiating chapters will soon be opened, and the focus will be on Chapter 23, which deals in the broadest sense with the issue of the existence of basic human rights, including minority rights, as well as the rights of minority groups, which include persons with disabilities, and therefore our country must launch procedures to prevent any form of discrimination against people with disabilities. Speaking of opening chapters, it is also very important for us to open Chapter 19 which deals with social policy and employment policy, where the position of disabled people again takes a special place. I must point out today that we, accordingly, and in the Health Safety Act, have given special emphasis and care to the status and position of people with disabilities in employment, as well as those with disabilities who are already working. For the adoption of a law supplementing the Law on the prevention of discrimination against persons with disabilities, there is a constitutional legal basis, but with valid reasons for its adoption. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this Law on the Prevention of Discrimination of Persons with Disabilities is contained in the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which regulates and provides a system in the field of social and disability protection. The prevention of discrimination and the exercise of rights in accordance with the needs of disabled persons should be said to represent one permanent commitment of the Republic of Serbia, which is shown in the priority objectives, within the framework of the legislative legislation relating to the improvement of the situation of persons with disabilities and the prevention of any form of discrimination against them. There are, however, risks of discrimination, marginalisation, as well as social exclusion of disabled persons who unfortunately tend to grow regardless of all the activities our country is doing to minimise this risk. This law should arrange and provide for all persons with disabilities, regardless of whether they are physical or sensory damage or disability due to disease, such as blind, impaired persons, persons who suffer from various muscle and nervous muscle diseases, quadriplegia, and persons who do not have the above extremities, whether by birth or have lost them during any injury, to have primarily the same rights as all other citizens. In fact, the problem arises when people with disabilities are asked to place their fingertips instead of their own hand signature, in violation of human rights and freedoms of persons with disabilities. Also, until now, prints, faxes or stamps with personal identity data or with a signed signature have not been allowed to be placed, but in practice they have been very often disabled and the signature of a fingerprint is required. This violated the principle of equality of rights and obligations, as disabled people could not thus exercise the rights that were conditioned by an oversigned signature. In line with the above, legal regulation of the area which would allow the use of an appropriate seal or facsimile containing personal identity data or a personal signature as a self-signature on all documents, and above all, it is thought of cases where disabled persons are not allowed to be accepted in society as part of human diversity. For example, when using stamps in banks, in post office, in tourist facilities, etc. It should be pointed out that using such a seal does not exclude proof of identity on the basis of an identity card or from an insight into physical or sensory disability. Persons with disabilities with upper extremities, which is a certain but limited possibility of signing, either because these extremities are limitedly mobile or are blind and weak-sighted. That is why their signature is etched on the seal and used in concrete situations. However, if disabled persons do not have the possibility to use the above extremities, then the seal used as signature would contain all personal identity information, i.e. name and last name. In voting day, the SNS parliamentary group will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49025	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Ninoslav Giric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49026	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, is ahead of us with the Bill on Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Discrimination of Persons with Disabilities. Therefore, at first it should be said that the adoption and vote of this bill is practically the only way to regulate the scope of the seal and thus all persons with disabilities can exercise their rights in an equal manner. By using the seal, disabled persons will exercise their rights, both in front of public authorities and in institutions to provide different services. I note that the misuse of a stamp with a personal identity is practically not possible, because a disabled person can also verify identity with a personal card, and there are disabilities that are directly visible. Of course, this bill applies to that category of people with disabilities. Therefore, this bill will significantly improve the position of persons with disabilities and enable citizens to be equal with all rights and responsibilities. It is also important to say that persons with disabilities in everyday functioning, i.e. daily life activities due to physical or sensory damage, as well as diseases, are included in these diseases with blind and impaired persons suffering from muscle, musculal and neuromuscular, or neuromuscular diseases, then quadriplegia, or persons with completely deprived extremities, as well as those with amputated upper extremities or persons with congenital lack of upper extremities, are in a position to sign on certain documents without being able to do so. Of course, it is not because of the illiteracy of these persons but it is about persons who are physically incapable of signing a particular document. With this bill, of course, these situations will be over. I'd just like to say for a little while, Mr. Minister, I know you're quite engaged in all these jobs and making life easier for people with disabilities. What is the problem within health institutions and departments and services, where disabled people come to control, to prescribe certain aids, that buildings were designed and built really many years ago. And now, there's a daunting circumstance to architecturally adapt to the building to make it easier for people with disabilities. I hope that in the next period it will be overcome. It is obvious that all parliamentary groups will vote for this law, of course, and the SNS parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49027	The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49028	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, since I come from a family of disabled people, I think I have every right to say a few words, primarily thanks to Minister Voulina and Prime Minister Alexander Vukic for the fact that despite the fact that in our country, drastic austerity measures had to be implemented, no social giving has been reduced or reduced, nor have any categories of socially endangered people suffered despite the fact that we had to save to prevent bankruptcy that has gone against all of us as a potential danger. And this proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Prevention of Discrimination of Persons with Disabilities is just one step in a series that wants to protect persons with special needs. As we know, such a person is indeed very much in our country. As an MP, the movements of Pirot Socialists, I can only say that by pointing out the need to achieve as close as possible co-operation between the ministries, specifically the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, with local self-governments I see a chance in the upcoming elections that are ahead of us to bring our joint activity into the situation to prejudicate the fact or situation that is present in many local self-governments in which those in power who have not sufficiently understood their function, the function of local officials, the function of local authorities, such as those in Pirot, such as when hyenas came to power in the cartoon film "Lajon King" and the former Yugoslavia, the places that were once for pride, businesses that were once for pride, not only Pirot but for Serbia and the former Yugoslavia, were left in a sense. In front of all of us, it is possible for us to change this situation in the upcoming elections of joint action and ministries and local self-government in which the responsible, the right people, change to a better situation on the ground, and that we have no problems as they arise, in remote mountain villages of Pirota, where not only are the rights of those with disabilities or those with special needs, but the rights and ordinary citizens who have no opportunity to supply themselves with even basic life supplies because there are no stores, so for the purchase of bread they have to walk or to go ten kilometers in neighbouring villages. So there's a big chance ahead of us, a big task ahead of us. Working together and working together together can help us achieve the goal, which is to improve living conditions for all, especially those who have special needs. As I said, the merit of this government is precisely that it is particularly potent and takes care of the needs of those who need it most. So, once again, I point out that as a member of the Socialist Movement, I am proud that, despite all the difficulties and difficulties in the economic sphere, we will retain the same level of social contributions for all social categories and I hope that in the coming period we will have results better than they have been, with greater and stronger support from all Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49029	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49030	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored Minister Vulin, Honored Guests and Guests of the Ministry, Honorable Vice President and Chairman of today's session, Mr Arsic, first of all, let me tell you. It's a good thing you're chairing today. We have one bad experience with Mr. Becic's chairmanship, who took our word last week, and Minister Vulin to hear, when a smile shows on his face.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49031	Please, Mr. Pavicevic, when Mr. Becic is in the O.R., then talk about him.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49032	Minister Vulin, on the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the prevention of discrimination against persons with disabilities, I want to make seven notes that I think we have here the consent of all persons who participate in the debate, which I consider to be good. I have one objection, and I'm going to announce it before the end, and I have one question. But here, let's start with these thesis that we obviously have the agreement of representatives of all parliamentary parties here on the content of this bill. We agree, and that is important, I think, to note here, to emphasize, about preventing discrimination and enabling equality, or to exercise equal rights of persons with disabilities. It's usually one thesis that says in an explanation for the debate and acceptance of this law, and I'm okay with it. Second thesis, gentlemen. All together, I think, we should insist here on respecting and spreading awareness of the heterogeneity of the community of persons with disabilities and full application of the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. As far as I've been listening to the debate today, and about this thesis there's agreement among all the people who appear on behalf of political parties or on behalf of the executive authority here today, and that's good. The third thesis. I think it is good that we together insist on the full participation of persons with disabilities and organisations who represent their interests in all the processes that concern them. And about that, as I understand it, we have a general agreement here. It is usually a rare situation in our National Assembly. Fourth thesis, gentlemen. I think it's very good that we all stand together here, and there is agreement about it between the legislators of this law and between us MPs and our society, for full application of the adopted provisions and standards in the field of accessibility, and in accordance with Article 9. Conventions to view the right to accessibility as a human right and to support activities in order to create an environment accessible to all people. It's important, I think, that in our National Assembly you hear messages of this kind, and especially that those people who are faced with various kinds of discrimination, in this case, people with disabilities. The fifth thesis, about which we have consent, once again to point out here. With the accessibility that I mentioned earlier, as one of the preconditions of an independent life, all together, I understand that we have agreed on this, we should insist on different forms of support for independent life in the community, primarily on personal and other aspects of assistance and support in decision-making, in situations where it is estimated to be necessary. The sixth thesis. I see Professor Atlagic listens very carefully, and he's certainly in agreement with all this. Education is a particularly important segment when it comes to the full participation of persons with disabilities in social life, timely independence and competitiveness in the labour market. And the seventh thesis, gentlemen of honor, about which we have consent, which is, I repeat, a rare situation in this assembly of the National Assembly. Together, we should respect and promote the language identity of deaf people, follow the application of the Law on Serbian Sign Language and the full exercise of the rights of deaf people to communication and education in the native language. This is the seven thesis that I have singled out, which seemed to me that we finally have agreement in this assembly of the National Assembly. I have one remark. This is a short text, a brief explanation. Dear gentlemen, guests and guests from the ministry, we from the New Party particularly insist on respecting the spelling and grammar of the Serbian language. For us, that means next. That in the case of any legislative project, it should not happen in an explanation, for example. There is no word missing, as in the first sentence in chapter II – Reasons for passing the law. He says – The reasons why this law is proposed are to prevent discrimination. So the word “na ” is missing. Gentlemen, I can understand that, but let's once agree that the text when the final comes here is completely pure in terms of language.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49033	Time, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49034	Mr. Arsic, may I have one sentence, if I may?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49035	You can have one.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49036	One question I promised Minister Voulina, and that question concerns my one interest. What will happen and when will we discuss the Bill of Marks, which since May 2015, so to speak, has been in the assembly procedure? I've prepared a number of amendments to discuss, gentlemen. Thank you. (Alexander Vulin, from the scene: right after the election.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49037	Thank you, colleague Pavicevic. Here, you've got the answer. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49038	Thank you. I am Milija Miletic, and I come from the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, Svrljig municipality next to the most beautiful city in Serbia, which is the town of Nis. As a folk MP here in the Serbian Parliament, I represent the United Peasant Party, and I am elected from the Serbian Progressive Party list. As so far, I fully support all the laws submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by our Prime Minister, Mr Vukic, and we now place a special accent on the work of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, led by Mr Vulin, whom I truly highly appreciate as a legal and successful minister who advocates doing those things that no one was allowed to do in the previous period, had neither the strength nor the hearing, but you do. I will talk about proposals to supplement the Law on the prevention of discrimination against persons with disabilities. I think these supplements are necessary, because we're witnessing what happened in the previous period. A large number of people with disabilities who have had problems with the above extremes, a vision problem, when they come into a situation to finish some work in a public body, specifically in local self-government, city administration, tourist organization or anywhere else, they have to put their signatures on it, but because of their shortcomings they can't do it. More times than people who can't see, they're asking to put a finger on it, which is really humiliating for those people. I really think that this bill and the additions of this law will put an end to some of the bad things that were in the previous period, that we're going to give these people who are disabled in a certain way, who have major health problems, but in this way we're really putting them in line, because we all want these people to be highly respected. In my nearby environment, I have people who are disabled, who have big problems and we all put an accent on, but now we're giving these people a chance to finish their jobs without a problem. This proposal and by supplementing this law with a seal where its data will be engraved, their signature engraved, they will indeed solve their problem and will be much easier for them. I am truly as a People's MP grateful to you, Minister, for leaving in the 2016 budget the same amount of funds for people who need help. Here, we also had a Committee on Agriculture in Backo Topoli a few months ago, where we had one conclusion that through your Ministry, we would enter into the process of changing the PIO laws regarding agricultural producers. In particular, I know that you've already formed a group and that's what you're working on, because we all know that it's not the same when you pay for a PIO fund for agriculture a man who has one hectare and a man who has a hundred acres, and the quality of the country is not the same with me in Svrlig where the mountain range is and where the plainland is. Now I'm going to call you once again, because you really have faith, courage and great power, and all these laws that we do are very good and very good, to get into a change of laws regarding social protection, to give the possibility that agricultural producers who have 50 acres of land, that they too are tomorrow users of social labor donations because they can't do it right now. It's one of the options for agricultural producers to sort of equalize because 60 acres of land in my municipality is worth maybe 60,000 dinars, and let's say some man in town who uses social benefits, his apartment is worth 50,000 euros and that man is using, and that farmer is not using. It's an initiative where, I'm sure, together with you, some things within the budget and opportunities that the IMF allows us to change, but these are things that we have to do together, and we need to get into the process of change and the Health Insurance Act, specifically for agricultural producers, because we all know that farmers can't verify their bookbook when they're kept on unemployment records. At the very least, these are some things that I know you'll be doing in the next period and I know that your Ministry, headed with you, will continue to work in the next term. I, as a man and as an MP in front of the United Peasants' Party, will be elected from the SNS list, from the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, Srljiga, to vote in favour of the proposal and the addition of this law, because I am sure that this law will enable people who are disabled to meet their needs more easily and to make them better, and then we will all be better. Once again, I will support all the bill proposals and all those proposals that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by our prime minister, will deliver to us at the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49039	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49040	Just as a brief response to the launch of the theme about agricultural pensions and agricultural pensioners. The main problem is that large debts have accumulated with farmers' pensioners towards the PIO Fund. They didn't pay their dues. Now, the question arises to what extent they can fulfill their obligations. Is that objectively possible? Well, that's why it's now launched an initiative to calculate cadastrian income. That's the answer to these problems, to establish a new table of cadastrian incomes, and then based on it, we'll be able to calculate really how much the obligation should be. You're absolutely right -- not one who has 100 acres and one hectare of land can have the same thing, but on the other hand, one hectare in Vojvodina, as you said, can live better than one hectare in Srlig because it's simply a different country, so it's a different culture and everything else. That's what it's all about. It's between the PIO fund and it's between the Ministry of Agriculture. I'm sure we'll come out very soon with a concrete proposal, so in the context of the change of the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, we'll give an answer to that as well. It's not in our best interest for us to introduce a farm pensioner into debt slavery for retirement. No, we certainly don't want to do that. Of course, we have to fix it and we have to fix it somehow, but on the other hand we have to take care of both that and the flow of time, there will come a time when people rightly expect you to retire. If they didn't pay anything, how would they get it? So between those two opposite sexes we have to find a solution. When it comes to the Social Protection Act, of course, the Social Protection Act will, I'm sure, be one of the first laws to be passed, i.e. amendments and additions to the Social Protection Act, be one of the first laws to be passed after the elections, where special attention will be taken to these categories, to introduce at least that element of justice and to recognize what is reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49041	Thank you. The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49042	Thank you, Chairman. Dear People's MPs, on behalf of the Turnover Movement, I can announce that in the voting day I will support this law. The position of people with disabilities is difficult. That it will not be difficult for people with disabilities, when the position of Serbian citizens is difficult, citizens are poor, they cannot feed themselves and their family. It is clear to all of us that those who are disabled or are severely disabled have a much bigger problem. It is not disputed that this law, which has four members, will solve one of their problems, for those who cannot be signed by hand, the possibility of doing so in another dignified way with the seal. However, this does not solve the problems of people with disabilities, it has not led to the inclusion of people with disabilities, and this, as I travel through Serbia, people believe the Turnover Movement and that is why they address us. Today I spoke with Slavko from Jacob at Alexine's. Slavko is a disabled person, receiving 2,000 dinars of compensation from the Serbian state, livestock village, no health care or other form of protection is available to him. He receives 2,000 because he has two acres of pasture on his wife, so it's not a field ornanica, it's a pasture. He receives 2,000 dinars of compensation. He says Slavko can't live out of that 2,000. He says Slavko can't have other disabled people in Serbia living out of the 2,000 or the 5,000 they receive. Their position is dramatic. Srdjan from Vladic's Han, a man who has cerebral paralysis, says today in a conversation that the state has disabled any kind of rehabilitation because, he says, he is over 18 years old, and only up to 18 years of age does not allow for four and a few years, since this government is there, rehabilitating people from cerebral palsy in the Banj conditions, that at least a little recovery, even though we say in principle – we are all for the disabled. And this man lives, therefore, in an environment where he has no access, even if he has money, the possibility of repairing or stabilising, as far as possible, his health condition. Srdjan from Vladic's Han says – no, this country does not care about disabled persons. As the man from Jagodina tells us – imagine the life of the people in the country, the disabled, who drink well water, whose children drink well water. He recalls that half of Serbia's children drink well water, which has not even been tested. In that sense, it's nice, we'll vote in voting day for this law, it's not controversial. I see all opposition colleagues support this law. True, he was a little late, before the elections he was here in the assembly procedure, but regardless, he wasn't here today, nobody mentioned or blamed only one party for the position of disabled persons. We may all be guilty, but it is our fault that the disabled are only mentioned in the election campaign and that the wheelchair is divided only before the elections and that the elevators for disabled persons are divided before the elections and that such laws are passed before the elections. It's our shame, all of us, because that's how we buy citizens who are severely health-threatening. We're trying to buy them like this, I'd say, with political pranks. But regardless, I will vote in the voting day for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49043	The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49044	I'm really sorry that the term "deception" is being used today. There's nothing to use around. So, for what it's worth, I'm going to repeat now that this is the third law that regulates the position of persons with disabilities in the term of this ministry, which is more than it's been done in the last few years, starting a little less than two years ago when this government was formed, the elections weren't in sight, so we brought them in. Our first law we passed was just in the field of disability rights. Maybe it wouldn't be bad, before you use such hard words, that you might be talking to representative organizations that gather people with disabilities, to hear what they have to say. According to what they say and how they behave, I quote, they never had better co-operation with one ministry. Ask them, talk to them. I don't know, some of the examples listed here simply have nothing to do with the disability situation, you know. There's no real estate censorship when it comes to disability, no matter what, you can be the richest man in the world and the poorest man in the world and you have the right to other people's care and help. Dot. Do you have six acres or zero acres? It doesn't matter. You can also be Miskovic, anyone else will receive other people's care and help. Apparently the man you were talking about didn't get other people's care and help and it had nothing to do with whether it had a hectare or nothing land, nothing to do with it. You obviously did not understand what disability rights are, and what rights are derived from a poor material point of view, or a poor material condition. Last year, the state of Serbia set aside 750 million dinars for salaries, repromaterials, various competitions that help businesses that employ people with disabilities. To support the employment of persons with disabilities of 500 million dinars, this year 550 million dinars, for active measures that help the maintenance and operation of 22 republican, 11 circuit organisations, representative organisations that gather people with disabilities, and they have 526 local organizations, we have separated 214 million dinars. That was just scheduled and divided yesterday. Don't accuse me of the election, they're lucky that it's faster, we're trying to make sure there's no gap between one and another competition so people won't be without money, so it's done as fast as possible. And we'll keep doing that. Also, another 62 million dinars have been allocated for the big competition, for special competition projects another 40 million dinars, plus there are local self-governments. I'm not saying it's enough and it's never enough and it's never gonna be enough, but what we're doing shows a tendency where this society goes, how this society behaves, and there's progress, there's concrete progress in each of the areas. In the next few days, Minister Verbic and I will go to the school "Veljko Ramadanovic" which takes care of the education of our blind children, where we should discuss how to provide more textbooks, how to provide certain lessons that are specifically needed for the blind. It's not hard for us. We should be there. That's our job. We're proud to be able to do that. The same goes for everyone else. So this law is important, it will help in one segment, but every day it helps in all forms and parts of life to people with disabilities. Here, to call all the MPs, there's a massage salon in the Uprising Street Association of the Blind and Weak. They're the best in the world at that. Which one of you was there? Nobody. Did anyone want to be there? Come on, let's split up, pay our own, I don't know, a thousand dinars. Come on, let's buy one single voucher, like the socially responsible companies that bought vouchers for their workers and thus helped. Come on, let's all find a way to help people with disabilities instead of using the word fraud. This is not a fraud, this law came in turn, when it came, as far as I'm concerned, it could have been later, in 2009, when we adopted the Convention, which regulates the government's obligation to fight discrimination against people with disabilities. From 2009, to this day, I don't know what was waiting for me, but it must be explained by someone else, I don't really have to, but what I can proudly say is that at the time of this government's term, we have passed more laws that regulate the position of persons with disabilities than one before us. Now let me tell you right now, is it possible that we've waited, I don't know, what, 50, 70 years to recognize the legal solution to the interest of sign language interpreter? Did it take, how many decades did it take us to do something like that? We did it right away in the first year of our term of office. I think it should be respected, not that, of course, the merit of this ministry alone is the merit of the entire government, but also the merit of an entire society that is increasingly recognising, which recognises the need to help develop people with disabilities and their overall position in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49045	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Alexander Markovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49046	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, so I am so truly sorry that the previous speaker, so the speaker before Minister Vulin, had to in some way expose that dark side and disrupt, otherwise a very constructive discussion that we had, here all day long, to politicize it. And that's not what surprises me, so we're used to that sort of thing, but on the other hand, I'm happy again that he even attended today and I'm glad he spoke. I'm glad he didn't run away from the debate like he did the other day when the Prime Minister was here, and before that, he was a hero. He was a hero here in the hall of the assembly in front of the models, in front of the Prime Minister's paintings, and then when the prime minister arrived, he heroically fled the megdan. It's not a topic, I agree it's not a topic and I apologize for it, but I had to react simply human to such disrespect by the previous speaker. As far as the bill is concerned, I think there is a full consensus on the adoption of this bill. So, the law that promotes this area, the area of social and disability protection, as well as the area of prohibition of discrimination. The reasons for the adoption of this law, we heard a lot of them today in the debate of all representatives, in fact from representatives of all parliamentary groups as well as from the minister, but despite what we heard, and I am not in favour of repeating it, should nevertheless underline some of the most important thesis, which is preventing discrimination on persons with disabilities, enabling full equality. So, in one word, the exercise of equal rights of disabled persons who are unable to sign by hand because of the nature of their disability. What I would also point out and certainly should point out is that the permanent commitment of the Republic of Serbia to the prevention of discrimination on persons with disabilities defined by the priorities and objectives of the National Strategy, i.e. the strategy to improve the situation of persons with disabilities in the Republic of Serbia, as well as a number of other regulations and documents relating to the improvement of this area. On the other hand, people with disabilities face many difficulties every day, in a wide variety of situations. It's our obligation as a society to make an extra effort, I'd say, through different regulations in a systematic sense, to make everyday life easier. In this regard, I would like to remind myself that a recently adopted Law on Movement with the help of a guide dog that will also further help disabled people in this regard. I really hope we won't have any more unpleasant events or situations like that with one lady who, one of the MPs mentioned it today in the discussion, so it's about GSP, one person couldn't get in with the dog. I'm deeply convinced it's a matter of ignorance of the law. I hope it will not be repeated again, but I would also point out in a positive sense and a reaction from the GSP of Belgrade. The reaction was rapid. The reaction was timely. They issued a statement, conducted a disciplinary procedure against the driver, and I am truly convinced that such a unloving situation will never happen again. I would like to look back, that is, on Mr Milosavljevic's initiative we heard today during the debate, it is participation of persons with disabilities on election lists. Personally, I think it's a good idea. I personally think it's worth considering such a proposal. I would point out one small example, but just because it is a small example does not mean that it is not significant, therefore, the SNS Municipal Committee on Vračar, or the SNS Committee on Vrakar, which in its committee group had in its current term persons with disabilities. I think it's a good example and I think you should think that way. For all these reasons, I really wouldn't want to repeat everything the previous speakers have said, but of course I would call that and I'm sure that's what's going to happen, that in the voting day we unanimously pass this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49047	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has a folk ambassador, Dr Dusan Milisavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49048	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, friends from the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs, at the end of this debate, I would like to draw attention once more to the much more important and stronger barriers that our fellow citizens have, persons with disabilities. In addition to the architectural, these are the barriers in the heads of the citizens of our country, and we have to bring those barriers down together. I'll give you an example less than a year ago, an organisation of people with disabilities in Nis organized socializing with the Nis citizens and invited the people of Nis to sit in a wheelchair with disabilities, to sit in a wheelchair, wheelchair and take a stroller with them around town to see their problems. I can tell you that a large number of people refused that invitation, along with the superstitions – I don't want to sit down, it can happen to me. I want to point out the lack of insight into these people in the right way, so I ask the same question to all of us, are we aware that many people with disabilities precisely because of these some architectural barriers do not have adequate health care, cannot reach many hospitals, many hospitals, that many buildings that are being built today do not respect the rules in the issue of building permits, that they do not set up ramps that would be used by persons with disabilities, so that one process that requires the comprehensive attention of the state, whoever is in power, whoever is at the head of the ministry you are currently running, needs a lot of attention, daily attention and what I said, not only today when we talk about this bill, not when the International Day of Persons with Disabilities, but continuously taking care of them and their rights. What I quoted in the first part of today's session of the UN Charter that we initialled in 2009, article 9, says the states of the signatories commit to ensure and promote the full achievement of all human rights and fundamental freedoms for all persons with disabilities, without any discrimination based on disability. In order to achieve this, the states of the signatories have committed themselves to doing a lot of what the state of Serbia is going to do, and what I am stressing for the second time, it is necessary to introduce personal assistants into many local self-governments that still do not know what personal assistant is and what the purpose of a personal assistant is. Personal assistants allow for a better quality and better life for people with disabilities who are severely ill, who are tied to a wheelchair, who has been tied to a wheelchair, which some car accident has tied to a wheelchair and without a personal assistant, they cannot lead a normal life. It is not only life to determine some means that he has monthly incomes, but it is his life to return, to become an equal member of this society, to have the right to go to a cinema with the help of a personal assistant, to go to work, to walk to a library during the day, to walk around the city, to have the opportunity to move from bed to a chair, to do something on a computer. So, I think the fight for their rights is about to begin. We're on our way today. Today's debate assured me that there is hearing amongst us politicians, although a lot of people when you say politicians don't believe. I think in some things we agreed on, it's a good thing that other colleagues from the government and the opposition today were unique in order to improve and rights and positions of disabled people. So, one small example and a proposal about personal assistants, that they be bound by local self-government, that local self-government must find ways in the budget first to see how many of their fellow citizens they need to support local self-government, local parliament, to allow them to have a personal assistant to be with them. I repeat again, many local self-governments don't understand what a personal assistant is, they think it's a geronto housewife, they think it's some kind of social aid. No, a personal assistant is a person who spends eight hours with you, who helps you in your daily work, daily life, and in Nis, I can tell you, that personal assistants exist for some of our fellow citizens and in three shifts. So they've been covered for 24 hours, which is a good example from Nis. I think Nis was the first to go with personal assistants, and that example should be followed by other local self-governments. I will conclude, since today's debate is one debate in fact, it is not a debate but a debate on a very good legislative proposal, I will end up with the hope that in the next assembly session we will get the strength to find the money, but also to find those good will that the law, the parent, the care provider, find ways for him to live in Serbia, given that many European countries have shown their humanity and support for parents who have children who are in a wheelchair, children with disabilities in intellectual development, to support them in such a way as to have the opportunity to care for their children and to get some financial help and to run their careers. I think that when Montenegro did it almost, Croatia did it a long time ago, that and how we do, I think that we even have a much bigger heart than that country in the environment and that humanity of our citizens, a million times checked out, that as politicians, we also need to find ways to listen to these requests and the great need to be with their children, and that the state has practically provided them with one support that through a legal solution, through a working internship and through some amount of money they would receive as a monthly compensation, were able to make all the love they give to their children, to have the opportunity not to be sanctioned practically, to not have to quit their jobs, to not have to take care of their socially threatened groups, but through one legal solution and through this legal solution here to achieve one unity and one more human and better Serbia that takes care of their socially endangered groups. This certainly requires a lot of understanding, a lot of love and a lot of attention. I thank you and finally once again emphasise that the DS parliamentary group will vote in favour of this legal solution in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49049	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I conclude a principled search on the draft law. Now I'm setting a 30-minute break. We'll continue at 3:15 p.m. [[after breaks]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue today's work. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they have been invited to attend today's session: Ivan Tasovac, Minister of Culture and Information, Aleksandra Fulgosi, V.d. Assistant Minister of Culture and Information Igor Jovicic, Secretary of the Ministry of Culture and Information, Predrag Blagojevic, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Culture and Information, Tatjana Bojić Jurić, Independent Advisor at the Ministry of Culture and Information, Vladimir Nedeljković, Advisor at the Ministry of Culture and Information and Dragan Ignjatović, from the Ministry of Culture and Information. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately with the order of Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 157(2) of Regulation (EU) No 1305/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a joint principle and uniform review on: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Culture, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on a Mandatory Model of Publications, Proposal for a Decision on the Determination of the Spatial Cultural and Historical Continuum Complex of the Military and Technical Institute in Kragujevac for an immovable cultural well-being, Proposal for a Decision on the Determination of the Borders of the Protected Environment and the measure of Protection of the Space Cultural and History Continuum "The City Core of the Sremski Karlovac", an immovable cultural goods of exceptional importance and a proposal for authentic interpretation of the provisions of Article 142. Public information law and media. Does he want the word "proposer representative," Minister Ivan Tasovac? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49051	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, today we have a united debate on the proposal for a decision on the establishment of a spatial cultural and historical continent of the Complex of the Military and Technical Institute in Kragujevac for a moving cultural good of exceptional importance, the Proposal for a decision on the setting of boundaries of the protected environment and the measure of protection of the spatial cultural and historical continent "City core of Sremski Karlovac", the immovable cultural goods of exceptional importance, also the law on amendments to the Law on mandatory copies of publications and amendments to the Law on Culture. Culture is a mirror of every society, material and immaterial heritage of the creative industry and different forms of artistic expression greatly affecting the image that individuals and entire communities create of themselves and others. Through culture we all develop a strong sense of belonging, but also awareness of the exceptionalness of different traditions, beliefs and views of the world. Culture, however, is not just a source of collective memory. In a globalised world, culture is one of the key factors of socio-economic development. Culture is a bond between idealized, sublimated images of the past and a decisive, active and dynamic vision of the future, which every society wants to build for itself. At a time when mass migration, economic turmoil and structural change continue to shake the whole world, fostering and preserving culture is one of the cornerstones for creating a society that is unburdened by prejudice and which is facing development. Therefore, the regulation and support of the culture sector must be an integral part of each responsible policy. The Culture Act, which came into force in September 2009, was the first act of general character, which established a system basis for the functioning of the cultural sector in the Republic of Serbia. During its application in March 2010, however, a number of shortcomings and practical problems were observed. The aim of the adoption of the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Culture is to make all observed shortcomings in the original law of the IC and thus to make it fully applicable. Of the proposed changes and additions to be discussed today by the National Assembly, the culture system in our country will benefit in the long term. I would like to point out, before the debate begins, what are the key amendments to the amendment of the Law on Culture and Amendments. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Culture sets out more precisely the principles of cultural development and sets out clear priorities for cultural policy-making. More specifically, the general interest in culture is determined and termologically and essentially. The terms of cultural activities and cultural areas are redefined, not only for the sake of compliance with European practice, but also for the sake of a better content structure and fairer equal treatment of all cultural activities in our country. More specifically and more clearly, the public competition procedure for selecting the directors of cultural institutions is defined, as well as the responsibilities and obligations of the boards of directors and the ministry themselves. The problems identified in the current practice of co-financing competitions in culture have forced the obligation to regulate the process more precisely, as well as the procedures for the use of budgets in the culture sector. Regulation of the international co-operation funding procedure will also create preconditions for greater availability of funds from international funds. Amendments and additions to the laws concerning the National Council for Culture shall allow for the equal representation of all cultural activities in this body and shall define more precisely the powers of the National Council in order to avoid confusion with regard to its competences and responsibilities. No less important is the regulation of financial compensation for the work of members of the National Council. Recognising for a top-notch contribution to culture, which was actually just a synonym for so-called. National pensions, cultural status of national importance and working contracts for three years have caused the biggest controversy since the introduction, not only in the professional but also in the general public. Amendments and additions to the Law on Culture provide for the erasure of these institutes. Their further application would introduce further confusion and division into the area of culture, which must be the point of consensus for all of us. In a desire to get as close as possible to this point of consensus, the Ministry of Culture and Information formed a Working Group in September 2014 which produced the work text of the draft and sent it to the National Council for Culture. After the National Council's remarks were adopted, a version was prepared which was the subject of public debates in Belgrade, Nis and Novi Sad. In doing so, all interested citizens for the first time had the opportunity to submit their proposals and suggestions to the Ministry by electronic or ordinary mail. I would like to note in particular that all the proposals and answers to those that have not been accepted have been published on the site of the Ministry of Culture and Information. The whole process was followed by an open debate in the media, which, regardless of the occasional untapped statements by participants in the debate, added transparency in the process of drafting the proposed text. In the next phase, public listening was organised in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, after which the text was amended in accordance with proposals accepted during public debates. Such a concise text was sent to the European Commission for an opinion which did not have a single comment on the content. The same version of the draft amendments to the Law on Culture has also been forwarded to the competent state authorities for opinion. After the proposals were made in the text of the draft law, it was forwarded to the Government for adoption and is now in front of you. Culture is not created in heaven, but on earth, which means that a professional, responsible and sustainable system of culture is impossible to imagine without legal frameworks that clearly define and regulate its functioning. As in any other complex system, which is part of the public space, and in culture it is necessary that all participants not only know the general rules of the game, but also adhere to them. Only one carefully arranged system that knows the rights and responsibilities of all public actors gives everyone an equal chance. The proposed law amending and supplementing the Law on Culture is precisely a reflection of the efforts of the Ministry of Culture and Information of the Republic of Serbia towards providing system solutions and optimal conditions for the successful and balanced development of culture in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49052	Thank you. Does the second proposer in front of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and National Assembly legislation, Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Do the competent committees want the word? The word is made by MP Vesna Marjanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49053	Mr. Chairman, thank you. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Committee on Culture and Information has not accepted the amendment and addition of the Law on Culture in principle at today's session. As most colleagues know, it is a situation that is very rarely happening in the congregation. I think it would be important for us all to learn some lessons together, especially if these lessons were to be learned by representatives of the promoter, or the culture minister and his associates. In my opinion, today's MPs have had the opportunity to hear the explanations of representatives of almost all the art associations in Serbia, the National Council for Culture, argument and amendments they have submitted for months since this law has been in the process. I think that the Committee has acted responsibly, because it is obvious that there are a number of solutions that remain dilemmas about their applicability and purpose when it comes to the functioning of the institutions of culture and independence, that is, the work of our artists. There are two possible scenarios ahead of us that the Rules of Procedure and the Law give us. One is to take a reasonable look at all the amendments that have been submitted, if I'm not mistaken, there are about 80 of them, that a large number should be adopted, if we think we can fix this law. The other option, of course, is that the law is withdrawn. He's the only one who can pull the trigger. It was mine to remind myself of the possibilities ahead of us. To conclude by saying this: if Mr. Minister, or at least the Secretary of State, or at least an assistant from the Ministry of Culture, which would be the order, if it were passed such an important law, and I would say that this is the first law, the only law in the field of culture proposed by the Minister in his term of office, might be present at the session, perhaps the outcome of the vote on the Committee on Culture would be different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49054	Thank you. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49055	It seems to me that this is actually a confirmation of democracy and that today's debate will be a confirmation of what kind of democratic society we live in and how important it is to respect all procedures. I'll remind you, this law has passed, not only public debates, but also public listening, it has been followed by an open debate all along. Today there was also a debate on the Committee on Culture and Information. However, laws are passed in the Assembly and brought by 250 MPs. So they're being brought into the tide. I sincerely believe and will try to make every argument that we have come to through long-term work and by a large number of consultations with the profession and using the best examples of international practice, the arguments to convince all 250 MPs to support and vote for amendments and additions to this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49056	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP Anamaria Vicek.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49057	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I would only like to talk about the law on amendments and amendments to the Law on Culture on behalf of the SVM parliamentary group, although there is a large number of laws in the debate so far that we will adopt in the day of the vote. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on Culture is amending and supplementing the law adopted on 31 August 2009, at the same session at which the Law on National Councils of National Minorities was adopted. Unfortunately, the laws that are at the same time in the procedure cannot agree with each other, so there was a conflict between the two laws. I pointed out this on behalf of the SVM parliamentary group on 14 July 2014, and in the public hearing held in the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Culture, I expressed hope that in the near future it would work to bring these two laws into line, when it was not already done in this draft law. It has been quite a long time since this public hearing, so there has been plenty of time for the suggestions of the professional public to be respected, and unfortunately the amendments and additions to this proposal do not concern the provisions of the laws relating to the jurisdiction of the national councils of the national minorities, and at this stage could not work on the comprehensive harmonisation of these laws. The conflict between these laws has created problems from the beginning to the present day in three key issues that have been regulated differently or not precisely defined by the Law on Culture and the Law on National Councils of National Minorities. The first is the procedure for establishing an existing institution in the field of culture for an institution of particular importance for the preservation, promotion and development of culture in particular and the preservation of the national identity of the national minority. The Law on National Councils of National Minorities found that national councils of national minorities determine which cultural institutions are of particular importance to preserve, improve and develop cultural specificities and preserve the national identity of the national minority. The Law on Culture found that the Republic of Serbia, the AP and the units of local self-government determine which cultural institutions are of particular importance to preserve, improve and develop cultural specificities and preserve the national identity of the national minority, on a proposal from the National Councils of National Minorities by amending the founding act. In practice, however, in many cases there is an inability to exercise the competence of national councils of national minorities in the field of governance of institutions that are of particular importance to preserve, improve and develop cultural specificities and preserve the national identity of the national minority. There are several examples where the national council of a particular national minority found that some institution is of particular importance for that national minority and the founder, by the rule of the units of local self-government, for political reasons refused to allow, by amending the founding act, the law of the national council for participation in the management of the institution. The criteria for establishing cultural institutions of particular importance for the preservation and promotion and development of cultural specificities and the preservation of the national identity of the national minority are the 2nd point which is problematic. The Law on National Councils and the Law on Culture did not lay down criteria which would establish an existing institution in the field of culture for an institution of particular importance for the preservation, improvement and development of cultural specificity and preservation of the national identity of a national minority. And, thirdly, to regulate the situation when several national councils determine that an institution in the field of culture is of particular importance to preserve, improve and develop specialities and national identity. In any event, where several national councils determine that it is an institution in the field of culture of particular importance for a particular national minority, national councils shall appoint one member of the Management Board on the basis of the Law on National Councils of National Minorities. In this case, the Culture Act provides for national councils to jointly submit a candidate for a member of the Management Board. In practice, this solution has proved to be entirely non-intellectual, since some national minorities have completely different, sometimes conflicting problems or interests that this joint member of the Management Board simply cannot represent. The law on culture, as I mentioned, was passed in September 2009. It has been applied since March 2010, and in several areas, the lack of law has been shown in several areas, as well as the problems in application, although it was the first act of general character to aim at comprehensive regulatory regulation in the field of culture. It seems that the most critical area of recognition for a top-notch contribution to culture, which is why this law has also come across an extremely strong resistance to the Committee on Culture, so by voting the law and being rejected by the board. I would like to stress that it is commendable that despite the provisions of the draft law, although the entire institution of recognition for a top-notch contribution to culture will be completely abolished, however, the winners who have acquired this right earlier, which is important for the SVM parliamentary group because there are a significant number of prominent artists in Vojvodina, members of the Hungarian national minority, in various areas of culture that received this recognition in the previous years, which is of exceptional importance because they affirm their contribution to the national culture of the Republic of Serbia, and not only the culture of the Hungarian national minority. In the next part of the presentation, I would like to refer to the amendments submitted by the SVM parliamentary group, which we discussed with Mr. Minister and Associates in November. The first amendment concerns Article 15, which amends Article 35. The law on culture, and we propose to add an attitude that determines that in the case of establishment of particular importance for the preservation and development of cultural specificities, and the preservation of the identity of the national minority in the process of appointment of the director of the institution, the public competition is also published in one of the printed media in the language and letter of the national minority. Namely, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia guarantees members of the national minority the right to fully timely and impartial notification in their own language, and the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities requires that members of national minorities are entitled to complete and impartial notification in their own language, which, of course, refers to information through the press and other means of public notification. In order to implement the Constitution and the law guaranteed by law, we propose an amendment to publish a public competition for the appointment of the director of an institution of special importance for the preservation and promotion and development of cultural specificities and the preservation of the identity of the national minority and in one of the printed media in the language and letter of the corresponding national minority. Our second amendment refers to Article 42. Proposal for a law amending Article 76 The law on culture and our proposal is to add a position closer to determining that the national council of national minorities makes a proposal for the distribution of funds allocated through the public competition of the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the AP or the unit of local self-government, institutions, manifestations and associations of national minorities in the field of culture. In particular, the National Minority Council of National Minorities Act stipulates that the National Council of National Minorities shall make a proposal for the allocation of funds allocated through public competition from the budget of the Republic, the AP, or units of local self-government, institutions, manifestations and associations of national minorities in the field of culture. In order to bring culture law into line with the National Minority Councils Act, we propose this supplement. It should, of course, be noted that it's interesting how this has been in a certain percentage of cases and so far worked well, so national advice has been giving its proposals, but without that being the case in the Culture Act. So now we're just proposing harmonisation of the law, so basically, most of the time, that's how it would work. The second part of the amendment concerns the same member and our proposal also concerns the harmonisation of the Law on Culture and the Law on National Councils of National Minorities. We propose that at the end of the last stance, which determines that criteria, criteria and the way in which projects are elected in culture financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the AP, or the local self-government unit, are being determined by the government. Our proposal is to add – determined by the government, in line with the principles of cultural development, and especially by respecting the cultural and democratic values of local, regional and national traditions, cultural diversity, the preservation of the culture of national minorities and the goods of special importance for the culture and history of the Serbian people located outside the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I'd like to point out that it's in Articles 4 and 5. The law on culture prescribed that the AP takes care of the implementation of cultural policy in its territory, the local self-government unit looks after meeting the needs of citizens on culture in its territory, and national councils of national minorities are working to implement the cultural policy of the national minority. Since the draft law sets out in a unique way the criteria for the selection of projects in culture financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the AP budget, or the budget of the unit of local self-government, we only want our amendments to bring these laws back together again. Finally, to remind ourselves that in 2014, when assessing the constitutionality of the Law on National Minority Councils, some members were assessed by unconstitutional members and other members were fully accepted as in accordance with the Constitution. Therefore, any new law which is passed and also applies to national minorities, i.e. national councils of national minorities, must also take into account the provisions of that law. He can't deny it, he can't leave out of the respect of the provisions of that law, and that it can't be optional whether he'll comply with it or not. The Law on National Councils of National Minorities is not less important than any other law since it was passed and adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and by the majority of votes of all MPs. I appeal that our amendments be accepted and that in the day of the vote, of course we will vote for the adoption of the Culture Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49058	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary, Mirjana Dragas.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49059	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, the honourable MPs, are here today to discuss a very important law, the Law on Culture. It was brought only a few years ago in 2009, but it showed certain characteristics from which it simply came to be discussed in a new way, in line with new times. In any case, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I will be very happy and personally support every democratic spirit that implies respect for all opinions, tolerance, respect for all but also a clear respect for the goal that we want to develop culture to achieve, and in this direction, I think that today, in the opening statement, the minister has given one clear direction and direction. When it comes to culture itself, we have to admit that it is broad, that it employs and gathers a large number of artists and creators from various areas. Culture is also a way of life, a value in the society we share, the personal values we respect and by which we live. These are also deeds by which we are recognized as a people and endure. So it's very important how we define it in the law, what its framework is, and what its values are nurtured. Most generally, but as popularly said -- roof law is the Culture Act, which was systemically adopted for the first time in 2009. Despite the fact that the roof law did not exist as unique during the previous long time, let's say, during the time of the Socialist Yugoslavia, culture took a very important place, institutions developed. Among them, as with the state, there was order. They recognized the priorities, knew the top-of-the-line range, were well-known artists, prizes, we were famous and present in the world. Finance was at a sustainable level, so art, culture in general functioned at a high level. Also, they were recognised, without mixing criteria, institutions of national importance, were open and accessible to citizens. Libraries, homes of culture, film and television opened up to the high aesthetic educational goals and values by which we were recognizable and present at the international scene and in international exchange. Unfortunately, the democratisation objectives, after 2000, of the multilateral system, as established, the sudden and uncontrollable privatisation of economic operators, the development, the conditionality, the wild capitalism of the liberal type, the party management of the ministries, etc., has rapidly annulled all previous values and objectives. They were abolished in the so-called privatisation of many cultural institutions. The cinemas were closed, many homes of culture were closed, and especially in small towns where a variety of forms of amateurism were also nurtured. Then, the poor or the smaller libraries were closed, the various forms of artistic heritage were neglected, many books destroyed, closed museums, and the poor people of various forms of cultural creation, such as theatres, concerts, etc. became financially inaccessible. Unfortunately, the media has become the promoters of primitiveism, under the pretext that the people want it, under the pretenses, or that the money is gone, and the regulatory bodies are silent. It's impossible as a society that we don't have the means and ways to resist it. The Culture Act was, for the first time, adopted as a single roof, in 2009, and entered into force in 2010. The adoption of this law was of great importance, because it produced various individual laws, and I will stress here that it is particularly important that it was established and adopted for the first time by the Law on Liabilities and Foundations, the Law on Library Information Activity, the Law on Old and Rare Library Construction, the Law on Archival Construction and Archive Service. A lot of sublaws have been passed. Despite all the good news, this law could not solve everything, and many relationships have changed over time, which requires and changes in the law. In doing so, the chronic and growing lack of money and the collapse of the economy have also led to the poverty of art and artists. It is problematic, of course, to define the minimum amount of budget funds for culture, but it is even worse to make the state late empty. In such conditions everyone suffers, all actions, and especially those that do not achieve new economic and financial values, but create someone else, and there are certainly culture and education and health care, both old and young. Almost everything gets poor and becomes social cases. It's hard to lift from the bottom and it takes a long time. We're doing it now, and that's exactly what we're living in. This is a time that requires equal efforts for all, an understanding that must have a clear goal – a resuscitation of production, a new so-called. The industrialisation of Serbia, new production of species and capacities, healthy economy, a new dynamic labour market, new production targets for which the government is constantly searching and creating them and which will give better conditions for both health and education, but also for culture.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49060	Mrs. Dragash, if you'll excuse me for a moment, I'll just give you a heads-up to the National Assembly. In accordance with Article 27 and Article 87(2) and (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby inform the Members of the People's Parliament that today the National Assembly will work even after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. I'm sorry, go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49061	I'll move on if you'll excuse me. Thank you. So what is important in cultural development is clear goals, efforts and responsibilities of all, mutual respect and tolerance, priorities, respect for the law, strengthening institutions, strengthening the position of artists, respect for national values and national heritage by which we are recognizable as a people, but also joining modern flows, which should determine our time, our heroes, but also future relationships. These relationships are getting more dynamic today, and they're asking us to respond quickly and to new forms. You can't develop the Internet and forget the Cyrillic. We can't just remember her when others start taking her in. I, for example, will remind here of the existence of Dubrovnik's old literature, which was recently printed by Professor Zlata Bojovic, who caused great controversy, but in which she clearly confirmed both the ancient times and the existence of Cyrillic and Cyrillic books and the great Serbian heritage about it. We cannot close schools and impromptu ad hoc programs, not remember the great educator and first European among Serbs, Dosite Obradovic, who opened schools equally for boys and girls and called for learning and tolerance 200 years ago. We can't help but remember Ruđer Boskovic or Nikola Tesla, or mention them only when others start to care for them. We must put our culture more into our work and into our laws. We must also remember the great Milutin Milankovic, Michael Pupin, as well as the other greats who are in charge of the world, but also our kin. Serbia was then, when they were creating, poor, underdeveloped, only to conquer the world of freedom, but had a clear goal. And today, we need smart people, giants that we're going to help develop, stay here, do a great deed, not go into the world, and before that, everything that's been going on is going on that they've forgotten. Then we too are doomed to forget and disappear. On behalf of restored Serbia, we will also bring this Culture Act, which will be just another phase in our cultural identity. On this proposal, there have been a number of objections, he has caused several concerns, but he has shown that in a cultural sense we must change ourselves. The law highlighted several major general issues that it wants to regulate in a new way, which so far have caused problems, in some situations even conflicts and misunderstandings. It was all, however, to the detriment of the institutions, to the harm of the artists, to the harm of all of us. In any case, the problems facing us need to be solved and corrected by new laws that have been passed on the basis of mutual harmonisation, mutual respect and tolerance and the search for the best solution. The new bill should regulate several important principles or issues. This is: establishing the principle of cultural development and pointing to the basic direction of cultural policy, determining the order of principles and areas of cultural development, identifying the general interest in culture from which funding methods and sources, obligations of the Ministry, province or local self-government, as well as the existence of national institutions also arise. Then, closer to precision, the implementation of a public competition for funding and co-financing of programmes, the participation of budgetary institutions in this, the way in which budgets are allocated without public competition, the issue of financing international co-operation, and those resulting from international contracts concluded, as well as those to contribute to the withdrawal of international funds, etc. For the practical life and functioning of institutions and individuals, questions are also important - the selection procedure of directors, the competences and obligations of the board of directors, the way they function, the ministry's obligation, the government's obligations, and the minister has already given notice. Harmonisation, therefore, further, of the legal regulation of the labour contract with the roof labour law, which defines this area in detail, because otherwise in this matter of culture this detail or this operation does not have to be represented. The issue of national recognitions and especially the National Cultural Council is then important. Each of these questions raised a certain opinion. Some were for the proposal that was made, some were against it. In any case, the solutions that will contribute to the improvement of the regulation of these areas are important, and for the parts that cause confusion today, the practices will show their justification, and possibly further the need for their improvement and change. I'll look more at, for example, some questions that require complementarity or versatile analysis. Let's say, defining the Cyrillic position, which I think should have an important place here. Since this is the roof law on culture, I believe that here is a place that will define its role and importance in our culture. We're not against Latin, but we're talking about Cyrillic as a letter that's been compromised, and it's a mark of our identity and our historical duration. I will mention, once again, Dubrovnik literature, Ruđer Boskovic, to remember the work of Vuk Karadzic, who defined this letter as the most perfect and simplest. We also advocate support, development and promotion of all national institutions of culture. The law deletes the definitions of national representation and level, but the 1992 Law listed clear institutions that had such a characteristic or omen. In any case, this new draft law, regardless of the fact that there is no sign, has a clear definition of who is the founder of which institutions, from which budget levels they are financed, and therefore defines their national regional or local importance. When it comes to national pensions, these pensions are defined by the 2009 Act. It is certain that they have so far caused great controversy, dissatisfaction, issues, and so far. These national pensions are neither national recognitions nor social support for artists. That is why, as such, in any case, in my opinion and our parliamentary groups, they must be abolished, but that does not mean that we should not consider and find a solution to improve the social position of artists, but also to establish national recognitions for the top cultural range. I will only remind myself that there was a previous series of great awards and national recognitions that had no monthly character, but were respected in the people and the state and bearers of these recognitions, significant artists, scientists, academics, respected professors and doctors are still proud of their winnings and are certainly very careful of them. I will remind you, these were the Seven Year Awards, October, there was the Vuk's Prize, Dositejeva, Negoseva, a prize with the name of one Nobel laureate Ivo Andric, etc. Some of these awards have been shut down, some have been maintained thanks to the enthusiasm of individuals, associations, employees or some private enterprise. That's why we need to look back at them and establish them with a special act. It is important to point out, too, that the future will be protected and where, in the law, the position of artists, especially those of the highest reach, which are also our well-known and recognised ambassadors in the world. The solution will be difficult to maintain, their full social support for the material opportunities of local communities, which, for all of them, have no resources for all of them, de facto. But what's certainly a good orientation in this bill, is to bring culture and local communities closer, to return to the local community and to animate people at that level, to have cultural content and directly participate in their creation. Dear Minister, I would especially like to stress that the new bill gives a much better classification of culture, given its diversity and diversity, that with much more attention, the regulation, way and possibilities of preserving and studying national heritage and cultural heritage have been regulated. Construction and improvement of the network of institutions in the area of protection of the cultural heritage has been established. They provide a basis for connecting and encouraging cultural institutions with other areas of tourism, science and economics, which provides to a greater extent the sustainability of these systems, but also greater quality programs and content. Digitalisation and development of digital research infrastructure, created conditions for promoting innovation and creativity in culture, improved conditions for free flow and exchange of cultural content and created better conditions for developing international co-operation, etc. The conjecture for the decentralisation of culture, I repeat, is very important. These, as well as a few other very good solutions, have to assume that there is a need, an interest, but also a greater possibility of developing a culture at the bar, which must be our future obligation. The development of art and culture and funding of programmes, but also the contribution to top artists, is elsewhere, and they must not only be left to the local level. It is indisputable that this debate will be dynamic, in order to seek the best solutions in which the law will help to develop culture, new cultural work and new creation, develop relations with humanity, solidarity, respect for one another, respect for the law and encourage the preservation of heritage and tradition, and improve and create new modern cultural content and international co-operation. That's why I don't think there's room for exclusion and intolerance because it doesn't make a solution. The solution brings development of the economy, international co-operation, more money for all, but also such distribution, even a small budget, which will protect and develop both a top culture and a general culture, which will enable the development of institutions, associations and other organisations, the availability of them to all, so that working in culture is not out of spite or pure enthusiasm. I will remind you that at a time of extreme lack and problematic relationships in society, the famous winged woman was – easier with culture. So, in any case, by supporting one clear direction of the ministry to define the areas, to clearly allocate funds that are not large and that they appear transparently at all levels, I think this law should be supported. I say the SPS parliamentary group will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49062	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Ljiljana Kosoric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49063	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected Mr. Minister with associates, at the very beginning I would like to say that the SPO Parliament Club will vote in favour of adopted legislative solutions that are on the agenda today, and I would like to talk today about amendments and additions to the Law on Culture. Before the adoption of the Law on Culture, I'm talking about the 2009 Law, this area was not systematically regulated. So, the existing Law showed all its shortcomings in application, and the Ministry made it possible for the widest, when we talk about participants in it, and a time-long public debate, to locate the most problematic points to be changed. Following the suggestion of the National Council for Culture and Round Tables in Nis, Novi Sad, Belgrade or public hearing here in this House, today is the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Culture. The reason for law-making should be to determine the direction in which our cultural policy will move, so that cultural entities can plan their activities. We should finally determine the general interest in culture, therefore, by precisely defining this interest, to determine both ways and selection of funding of cultural projects and programmes, which will have a positive impact on bringing the framework of a cultural strategy into line with the needs of institutions and artists who safeguard culture in the right sense of that word. Therefore, after the adoption of a valid legal act, we hope to draw up a valid cultural strategy. The National Cultural Council can make a big contribution to this. It is therefore necessary that this bill also provides for the advisory body to be complete, i.e. to be adequately represented by representatives of all areas of culture. This would create conditions to look at a more comprehensive picture of the situation and needs, which would affect the development of a low-risk strategy for someone to be neglected. In the end, I'd say it's a choice of route for all of us. The taste in many also determines cultural development, and it is closely related to the responsibility of individuals. If we were to engage enough to measure the original culture and value in culture, we would help ourselves and generations to build on serious grounds a state of great artists and strong art institutions. To point out, the European Commission did not have any objections to the proposed law, and I will once again say that it will support these draft laws in the Day of Voting of the Serbian Movement's parliamentary club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49064	Thank you, colleague Kosoric. The word has a national emissary, Branka Bosnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49065	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Mr. Ministers with Associates, Honorable fellow Members and fellow MPs, will begin my presentation on amendments to the Law on Culture and will begin with the general views of the Social Democratic Party on this Bill proposal, the basis for amending the law in 2009 was a law that was good enough to be amended only, and it is with these changes and a good basis for regulating the areas of culture. When we are not fundamentally changing a law, but only promoting it, it is more transparent to pass the law on amendments, because it is clear from such a concept what is changed from the previous law, what is deleted and what is maintained. A broad public debate has been conducted in the law-making process. This says that a large number of artists, professional workers, representatives of the institutions of culture wanted to be involved in making changes to the law. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia supports this practice, as who can better know what problems and needs of cultural creators are than themselves. It is clear that sometimes attitudes are contrary, but it is up to the Ministry and the minister to sublime and make up a final bill. On behalf of my parliamentary group, I would like to point out that the culture and cultural identity of a country is as important as the country's economy. The recovery of one country's economy is a long and difficult process, requires a lot of denial and work, but it is possible. On the other hand, cultural poverty, ruined values, the absence of general social decency, is often impossible to recover. Every book read is a performance of theatre, a good film, a concert, the enjoyment of art, design and architecture, the strength of our general, individual cultural status and identity. We must not accept the position – first economy, then culture. Development must be simultaneous and parallel. Poor society has a poor culture, but not a poor and cheap one. Cultural heritage can and must be rich. This country also has a cultural history, as well as active top artists. In the government of Serbia and you personally, Mr. Minister, it is a historic responsibility to stop, better to say stop, the devaluation processes of true cultural values and prevent the flood of simplicity, vulgarity, cheap content offered to the nation, and primarily through written and electronic media. Mr. Minister, we've known each other for nearly 15 years and I know we share similar values. Unsuitable jurisdiction can't be an excuse for either of you or us. Every minister is a member of the government and an MP is part of the parliament. The government has an integrated jurisdiction, we all have the ability to form working groups, to submit initiatives. The government is making regulations, parliament is passing laws, so our responsibility is great and our historical responsibility is irreparable. The Law on Culture, as an amendment to the Law on Culture, are only the basis for implementing a cultural strategy, preserving heritage, improving cultural infrastructure and affirmation of real cultural values. The law is the basis, it's the implementation of the law. That's why I'm going back on the subject, working together to marginalise the banal and disputed content of electronic media, especially those with a national frequency. Another topic, perhaps a little more personal, on behalf of your profession, on my own personal behalf, I would like to ask you that within your jurisdiction, I know that you are not the only authority to return to the practice of the Institute of Public Architectural Competitions. Part of national culture is also an architectural heritage. The most valuable architectural buildings that we internationally affirmed were objects and the result of international competitions. This is not only our practice, but many cities in the world are known for their buildings. What's Paris? The Eiffel Tower, Bobur, Vance Pian, when you say Bilbao's first association is the Guggenheim Museum of Frank Gary. They were all international competitions and first prizes. This is missing from Belgrade and Serbia, checking the architectural values and international affirmation. On behalf of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, I would also like to point out some of our suggestions regarding the provisions of this law. It is good that a representative of Belgrade University and a representative of film art will be found in the National Cultural Council. A well-defined procedure for selecting the directors of the institution of culture has been well defined, but we have a suggestion on a member of the law that defines the reasons for the resolution of the members of the Management and Supervisory Board of the Institute of Culture. It is said that the basis for resolution can be – preventing potentially harmful consequences by the institution. In the opinion of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, this is too broad a definition and can be easily misused, so we have submitted an amendment to this article as a parliamentary club. We have also submitted an amendment to a member who says the basis for the resolution may be initiated against a member of the board of directors or supervisors. We believe that the basis for the resolution is more celebular, because the proposed solution can also be the subject of some abuse. Of course, regardless of these amendments and their fates that we would like you to consider and accept, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia MPs will vote in favour of the law amending the Law on Culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49066	Thank you, colleague Bosnjak. The word has the People's Messenger Dr. Suleyman Ugljanin.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49067	The Honorable chairman, respected ministers, government members, fellow MPs, is on the agenda of a new set of laws, including the issue of culture, information and other laws. However, given the state of play on the ground in the sense of law enforcement, the question arises, what is the meaning of law-making, so I will not give much importance here, specifically none of these laws, because of the fact that we have to deal with one previous issue, the question of the meaning of law-making. When I speak, I will speak from the point of view of representatives of the minority SDA-Sandzak-PD Group, who make up ethnic Albanians from the Presevo Valley and Bosniaks from Sandzak, and I will speak mostly from a minority aspect. Information, we will go concretely, the issue of information is also a question of minority culture, in terms of informing minority people in their native language is one of the basic and fundamental and identity rights that enable minority peoples, provide culture, preserve and improve national identity. In addition to this, it speaks of the fact that through the Constitution and laws of the Republic of Serbia, but also through a number of international documents dealing with minority rights and positions, such as the Framework Convention on Minority Rights, the European Charter on Regional and Minority Languages, the exercise of minority rights to inform in its native language, treats minorities as one of the key identities through which minorities exercise the right to study their culture, preserve, cultivate and develop their culture, their national, ethnic and cultural and religious specificities. Therefore, informing national minorities is one of the areas within the Constitution of guaranteed minority self-government with the aim of preserving the national identity of minorities. Unfortunately, in practice it seems quite different. The public service of RTS, which has been obliged since 2002 to form a minority language redistribution, has not done so so far, so that all constitutional and legal provisions remain a dead letter on paper. Bosniaks are in a particularly difficult position when it comes to achieving the Constitution-guaranteed right to cultivate culture, to develop culture and inform in their native language, in order to preserve their national identity. In addition to the efforts of redactions in native languages, the lack of redaction within the public service of RTS for Bosniaks is also an additionally difficult environment for the privatisation of local and regional media. A concrete example of which I will discuss institutional violence against Bosniaks, Bosniak rights and Bosniak culture is also the privatisation of Radio Television of Novi Pazar, which was partly included in the process. The state authorities of the Republic of Serbia, by criminally privatising regional radio television in Novi Pazar, have made it impossible for Bosniaks to exercise their right to inform in the Bosnian native language and to cultivate their cultural treasures and their own culture. The Bosniak national council in accordance with the law, regional radio television has declared television of special importance for Bosniaks. Representatives of the Bosniak National Council were on the subject at the invitation of Minister Tasovac to speak with both Minister Tasovac and other representatives of the ministry. It was agreed that regional television should be excluded from privatisation and since it had been declared of special importance for Bosniaks for nine years, to allow and to give way to the Bosniak National Council, so that Bosniaks could exercise their Constitution and laws guaranteed the right to cultivate their cultural heritage and through the media. Given the importance of regional radio television, the exercise of the right of Bosniaks to inform in their native language, the importance of promoting Bosniak culture, the public expression of the cultural and overall national values of Bosniak speciality, the Bosniak national higher on several occasions than the competent state authorities and limited local self-government in Novi Pazar, it has requested that the privatisation process of the regional, public business of regional television be suspended and that the founding rights be transferred to the Bosniak national council, so that Bosniaks in that part of the country, in Sandzak, can exercise their right to develop culture, to education in their language and to establish their national identity. Instead of being interested by the competent authorities in how to enable the exercise of this Constitution and the law of guaranteed rights in the Bosnian language, which in that meeting with minorities and Mr Tasovac supported that minorities should have their own voices in the native language. Unfortunately, state authorities at other levels have advocated all their capacities to deny Bosniaks the right to information, but also to give one of the ruling regime's political parties a strong mechanism to deal with legitimate Bosniak representatives. The very privatisation process of this media has marked a series of illegalities. The abuse of the official position and the vertical of the minister and the horizontal of the mayor, his assistants, director of television, director of public enterprises and two privates, a regional radio television estimated at 400,000 euros, were sold to themselves by representatives of the Novi Pazar City Administration for 90,000 euros. But immediately after privatisation in the competition, by local authorities in Novi Pazar, it was approved instead of another 35,000 euros a month from the New Pazar budget, making it possible for those who bought television to pay the money from the City Administration. It's a matter of fact, if we get a little bit into the movement of finance, we'll see that it's a serious crime. Regional radio television was purchased by a consortium made up of the director of the then JP regional television, assistant New Market Mayor, director of the new market branch of the National Employment Service and two other people who accidentally entered the dirty game. All the things I'm talking about is why our interest is to deal with amendments, to deal with law enforcement members than I think that as serious people, we should primarily deal with building mechanisms to allow the laws of this country and the constitutional principles of this country to be done on the ground. That is why I think it is essential that we today talk about amendments, about members of the law, talk about these certain nuances, and we know that even the existing laws in that part of our country are not respected or violated by people who are close to the ruling regime, not only to this government but also to the previous governments and who are working in principle – the law, it's me. I therefore propose, as president of a minority parliamentary group composed of ethnic Albanians and Bosniaks of Sandzak and also the president of the Bosniak National Council, that this particular debate on these detail laws be postponed until a stable, effective law enforcement mechanism is adopted on the ground, because even the existing laws that have long been passed cannot be applied properly. This can be achieved, among other things, by adopting a legal and legitimate action plan for minorities under Chapter 23 for Serbia's accession to the EU, with details and instructions for both the laws and the culture and the information. Laws are passed to make life easier for people, not just to be a piece of paper. What benefits would patients benefit from a prescription prescribed by both the best and most professional fellow doctors? They wouldn't benefit from the recipe as a paper until the prescription started using drugs. Neither does a law that is not applicable in practice mean anything. Therefore, on behalf of the minority parliamentary group, I propose that the debate on the set of these laws be suspended, that mechanisms be adopted that allow every law we adopt to be applied in practice. If that's not there, then there's no point in making the best laws. I ask that we deal with as serious people the mechanisms for applying and the Law on Culture and Information and all these decisions and laws in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49068	Thank you. Mr. Zlata Djeric has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49069	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, the Honored Chairman, the Honored Minister of Associates, we are today ahead of the amendment and amendment of the Law on Culture, which has been in force in Serbia for five years. Of course, one law only when it begins to live, then all its shortcomings and life changes laws and prescribes new rules. So we have now come to an attempt to part of what in our cultural reality and cultural work, daily, is missing, to change these amendments and additions to the Law. It's a society that creates its own culture and creates its own cultural patterns. This also creates cultural history and cultural tradition, and we are a country and society that has good conditions and good preconditions to turn, with the top sports results of culture, into one of our serious export products. The proposal finds that the basic idea of amending and supplementing the Culture Act is to improve the system in which the cultural system of the Republic of Serbia operates, which should contribute to more efficient funding under the available budgets. Culture never had enough understanding, not enough thinking when it comes to budget separation. It's not only Serbia's problem. It's some acute disease that plagues the planetary world. When we mention available budgets for culture in the broadest sense of the word, it should be noted, and you will correct me if I am wrong, that the estimated percentage of the allocation in this year was about 1%, which is a positive shift compared to, say, the 2013 budget, where the percentage of the allocation for culture was a small 0.6%, and yet slightly less compared to 2014, when almost 1.5% of the budget was allocated. Unfortunately, the irrefutable fact is that the separation from the cultural budget in the Republic of Serbia has been back on an unsatisfactory level for years, especially if it compares to world standards, where the limit of detachment for culture as a minimum would be about 2.4% of the budget. When I mention world standards, I have to list one for me a fully paradoxical data, that Italy, the country with probably the most significant cultural heritage in Europe, and probably the most significant one in the world, thus singled out only the modest 1.1% of the culture budget and was sharply criticised by UNESCO for poor maintenance, among other things, and the significant archaeological site of Pompeii. In the same calendar year, Iceland singled out as much as 7.4%, Spain 3.3%, France 2.5% of budgets for the area of culture. Of course, we have in mind that these are relative values, because they are the budgets of huge countries, so when we compare them all, then we know how much they hold and separate for their culture. It's supposed to be some standard we need to set for ourselves. It's not easy in a poor society like this, but we don't have to stop trying to. When all of these are taken into account, as is our desire for all state authorities to contribute to the further fiscal consolidation of the state, it is clear what kind of task stands before the Ministry of Culture, and it is really not realistic to expect too much. It is logical to look for a way to make the funding system as efficient as possible to replace the chronic lack of money in our culture. However, in order to have a rich budget, in order for the budget to be filled more regularly, neater, more responsible, we need to know that this contributes to a more significant investment in culture and education, because these are two resources that indirectly constitute more discipline, more responsible and higher society. Especially what we need to worry about in all of this and much more than the existing state of culture is the general global commercialization of everything that has at least a sign of culture. This commercialisation takes its toll on our society, so that classic cultural content is withdrawn from what is very aggressively forced for the sake of the naked financial, even sometimes vulgared effect. The so-called reality programs have taken over the absolute primate when it comes to television viewing in the Republic of Serbia and, as far as I know, only RTS has not yet been tempted to include any similar form in its programming scheme. I hope it keeps going on and on. If the exception is passed on the most important tennis matches of Novak Djokovic, as well as some national selections in the most popular team sports, all pipelmeters give priority to this kind of entertainment. I'm afraid if we don't do something within the Ministry of Culture, within the Ministry of Finance to tax in some way SMS messages and everything that follows and makes these programs very attractive, above all on the financial side, that we're going to pay our taxes dearly and long for what's happening now. It would be interesting to take advantage of these viewers and see how average viewers are of RTS Digital TV, which broadcasts classic cultural content, such as opera, ballet, classical music concerts and classics of film art. Culture is democratic. It cannot be escaped from the fact that the vast majority of people like to watch certain programs, that the vast majority of people like to listen to certain music, that a number of people like to go to rafts and other similar places, but a legitimate question arises – what are the long-term consequences of the current state and general trend in our society, given the limited means of money, what are the possibilities of our ministry and other cultural institutions to reverse this unfavourable trend and to prevent such an aggressive non-culture policy as much as possible? I suppose that is why the definition of the principle of cultural development, as well as the determination of general interest in culture, is expected to create unequivocal and recognizable basic directions in which our culture will move further. Some of the main objectives that are to achieve these amendments and additions to the law are: defining the concepts of cultural activities and cultural areas in a different way with the aim of bringing them into line and precision, because this way defines the very contents of our culture. The proposed amendments and additions to the law in the most qualitative way are set up by the cultural system of the Republic of Serbia and enables more equal and fair treatment of all cultural activities. The recognition award for a top-notch contribution to culture in practical application has given the expected effects and it is proposed that these recognitions are no longer granted, with those winners who have obtained this award retaining this right. The main objective of this measure is to end the discussion in public which every year, when this recognition was awarded, has significantly compromised the proposed candidates and members of the commission who proposed them and, in the end of the line, the idea of the state to raise the level of our cultural system by granting this recognition. Given that there is another way to solve this problem, except by eradicating this institute from the law. In the future, some other kinds of expressions of recognition to well-deserved cultural creators who will not have such a negative connotation in practical application should be considered, because it would indeed be a shame not to, as a society, be able to single out those cultural Members who are worthy, with a special spiritual inspiration and with a lot of energy, contribute to national culture. Raising new systems of values and personal training should be present in our culture. Respecting the above reasons for removing this recognition, including the expected substantial savings of funds that have so far been allocated from the budget for these purposes, it may still be necessary to consider to some extent the arguments shared by the Associations of Drama Artists of Serbia, the Association of Literature Interpreters of Serbia, the Association of composers of Serbia, the Serbian Book Society and the Association of Ballet Artists of Serbia. These representative esnaf bodies find that the process of granting national recognitions to artists has often been completely inappropriate and subject to the most different pressures, including political ones, and that this recognition has been granted to persons who do not satisfy the conditions laid down in the Regulation on the coming conditions and the way of granting recognition for a top-notch contribution to national culture, or to the culture of national minorities, which has led to a violation of the reputation of this recognition. The attitude of the above-mentioned art associations, which is not baseless, is that this institute should not be abolished, because that would put all artists, who in perspective could be entitled to a pension based on a top-of-the-line contribution to national culture, in an unequal position in relation to artists who have already received this recognition and thus gain the right to receive a life-long monthly income. The opinion is that what is really necessary is that so far very bad practice is definitely rooted out by strengthening the institutional framework, as well as by regulation and strict application of mechanisms, as well as professional criteria that will prevent further inflation and devaluation of national recognitions. It will thus create a new respected cultural standard. It is expected to increase the efficiency of work and the functioning of national cultural councils as a special responsible body. A clearer definition of procedures and public competitions for selecting the directors of cultural institutions should contribute to the better quality of elected directors. Discretionary powers of the management boards of institutions are being prevented, thus preventing possible abuses of powers under the laws that have led to poor human resources in practice so far. The erasure of certain members of the law should prevent further accreditation of cultural institutes of national importance and thus undermine the reputation of those institutions that have legitimately acquired this status over the past period. The abolition of this institute automatically abolishs the obligation of priority funding from the republican budget of all cultural institutions of national importance, regardless of their founder. The return on the system that was in force before 2009 will save certain funds from the budget and prevent confusion over the funding competence currently present. The problems identified in the implementation of the competition for funding and co-financing of projects in culture have forced the obligation to regulate the competition process more precisely. In addition, by applying measures, to specify the procedure for the use of non-competition budgets, by establishing clear criteria for the use of this option, there will be conditions for a higher level of availability of such funds for those projects that truly deserve it. Also, regulation of the process of funding international co-operation in the field of culture will create preconditions for greater availability of funds from international funds for our cultural creators, thus improving the quality of security for their creation, which will, of course, create a more significant name for Serbia on the world's cultural map, a recognizable name for Serbia, and I have already said that one of our views, the views of my parliamentary group, is that Serbia can make a significant export product out of culture. I'd like to make some more meaningful remarks on the representative art associations. Therefore, translation of professional and scientific texts cannot be regarded as artistic work because art practice implies creating creative works of art that contain certain aesthetic features and which, in terms of consumption of these works, cause aesthetic experience. In the broadest sense, professional and scientific translators are involved in the translation of technical, legal, business and scientific documents, as well as other non-artic texts, contracts, birth certificates, copies from court registers, instructions for the use of technical apparatus and the like. So their every creativity here is completely inconclusive. These documents and texts do not contain aesthetic features and are not intended to cause aesthetic experience. They're just information content. Their writers don't have the space or the ambition to show creative creativity in them. Thus, even translations of these texts cannot claim to be classified in any of the artistic fields or literature. The theory of literature, as the only discipline whose settings in this case can be considered a proportionate, unequivocal classification of literature, so to art, literary translation, translation of literary works, but not translation of professional and scientific documentation. Although it cannot be considered artistic work, translation of professional and scientific texts can be treated as culture in a broader sense, if by the concept of culture we mean all civilizational assets – science, economy, agriculture, law, economy, politics, construction, mathematics, physics, etc. It is also proposed to introduce projects of general interest in culture, thus ensuring the continued work and strategic development of festivals, events and other projects whose credibility has been confirmed by the long-term existence, the quality of artistic and cultural programmes, as well as the proposed five-year plan with which they compete. The current discontinuity in supporting significant events often leads to an unequal quality of their artistic offer, and the organisers of these significant projects do not have the ability to achieve long-term goals, and thus the quality of cultural content significantly devalues. With institutions, projects of general interest in culture, the state would have the opportunity to implement a cultural development strategy in practice. The New Serbia parliamentary group in the voting day will support the amendments and additions to the Law on Culture, thinking that in this way we contribute to the further education of culture in our society, in one positive direction and that we will contribute to the fact that real cultural content gets more understanding at this time when it is necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49070	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49071	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister with associates, the amendment and addition of the Culture Act has been in parliament for six months now, and I must admit that I expected you to withdraw it from the procedure. Not because my opinion on the proposed changes is extremely bad, but because there are no associations in the field of culture or culture institutions that have not responded negatively to the proposed amendments to the law. He also responded to the amendments to the law by the Council for Culture, of course, with numerous objections. She also reacted negatively to the public. I can only praise your insistence that this and this bill remain in the process despite any negative criticism. Unfortunately, those are the only words of praise that I can say about this bill. What messages does the Government send to the public and cultural followers by proposing these amendments to the law? The government has made it clear – we do not give money from the republican budget, we abolish so-called. National pensions, because we're saving. Then, he says – we want to control all cultural institutions by degraded boards, it is clear – we choose directors. Then, we remove cultural institutions of national importance, because you say there are too many of them, and they need to be financed primarily from the Republic's budget, and that is, of course, a big problem. The National Council for Culture in this composition is not our partner and close associate, because it does not understand its responsibilities, especially with regard to the Ministry, as you say. These are key messages from the Government to all who are in any way involved in cultural action. Moto - we don't give money from the budget, we're going to make significant savings, it's going through a lot of provisions of this bill amending the law. From pensioners and public sector employees who have reduced pensions and salaries, through the introduction of electricity excises, it has also moved on to abolishing the so-called National pensions, abolishing the status of cultural institutions of national importance, abolishing the obligation to pay contributions from budgets to prominent artists and so on. Mr. Minister, you're probably familiar - this story has no end. But in the meantime, the prime minister, at the end of each month, will announce that incredible savings have been made at the level of several hundred million dinars per month. Mr. Minister, are your ideas about abolishing the so-called. National pensions and cultural status of national importance? Is that what you were asked to do? Did you stand up to these simply incredible ideas? In what way do you protect the vault on whose forehead you are? It is also an excuse to describe the goal that is achieved by abolishing recognition for a top-notch contribution to culture. You're saying she was assigned to the so-called so-called. National pensions to prominent cultural workers in practical application showed the effects they expected, and for these reasons the proposal to delete this institute from the law. Does this mean that the Ministry assumes that there is no, and there will be no more, prominent cultural workers? Your argument that, as you say, "the withdrawal of national pensions aims to break the discussion in public which every year when this recognition has been awarded has been significantly compromised and proposed candidates and members of the committees who have proposed it" – your explanation is simply scandalous. And this isn't the end of it. In the following you say that there is no other way to resolve this problem and avoid public discussion, and therefore this article is deleted. Therefore, national pensions are abolished because the government does not want any public discussion about the same allocations, and another solution cannot be found. Of course, I repeat: scandal. Does the government intend to delete all the members of the various laws that are challenging, as you say, "discussion"? Of course not. Only those who achieve significant savings in the budget will be deleted. It's easy, Mr. Minister, to make such a decision, without arguments, with an incredible explanation. Unfortunately, you will be remembered for this, not for the restored National Museum or the Museum of Contemporary Art. In this way, the government shows prominent cultural workers how much it appreciates them and how it treats them and their work. It also shows concern about whether they will be able to finish their careers with dignity when they are no longer in the public interest. And someone would ask – when it comes to athletes, why not for prominent cultural workers? Was Minister Udovic more persistent than you, or was the politics of this government - bread and games? Unfortunately, we already know your answer. We have had the opportunity to hear it from you, and we know that thanks to these government decisions, many now prominent, cultural workers, will end up in Chakla's shoes. I assume you're familiar with the hard retirement days of our prominent artist, so popular in the entire former state. Mr. Minister, give up the suspension of the so-called. National pensions. Follow consistently the current Regulation on the coming conditions and the way in which the recognition is awarded for a top-notch contribution to national culture and others. Closer terms and means of recognition are determined by the Government. You are, of course, responsible. The abolition of culture institutions of national importance is also an obvious inability for the government and the ministry to strictly respect the law. In your explanation for the abolition of cultural institutions of national importance, you say that "in the practice of granting status problems have arisen, as it turns out that a large number of institutions want to get this status, and this has led to the devaluement of the importance of such an important status". Too many institutions have gained such a significant status, hoping for and priority funding from the Republic's budget. The devaluation of the importance of this status is responsible for the ministry and government, easily granting status to many cultural institutions. I will remind you that the status is obtained by the government act, on a proposal from the Ministry, with the Council's opinion, and the government itself is closer to regulating the conditions, criteria and way of gaining and subtracting cultural status from national importance. In this case, the position of the 3rd Article of the 52nd Law is very important, which says that “the status can be taken away in both the procedure and the way it was acquired. ” So, instead of reviewing all the allocated statuses and revising the list, the Ministry will propose to the government to take away the status of those institutions of culture that do not meet the criteria, it abolishes the institution of culture from national importance. Mr. Minister, on your Ministry's website, I found that the government has adopted a final proposal from the Ministry 30. 04. In 2013, a decision on cultural institutions that gained status of national importance was made. There's 60 institutions on the list. I know, you'll say - some other government did it, not this one. Your guilt has devalued the status of institutions of national importance. There's no excuse to delete this institute. Provisions of Art. 52, 53 and 54 are perfectly clear, and the funding of cultural institutions of national importance is fully clearly defined, only necessary for a list of 60 institutions to be revised. But it was easier to abolish status than to revise the list of institutions. You say when changing the provisions relating to the selection of directors, that all changes are aimed at selecting as high-quality personnel as possible, and they would be chosen through public competitions. I really appreciate that, that sounds progressive, good to the moment until the amendments to the law look more closely. With these changes, you want to control the boards of directors by directly degrade them by making them only service services. In the current law, the Management Board called a public competition for the selection of directors, decided on the selection of candidates and submitted the proposal to the founder. Now, according to this proposal, the board of directors is holding talks with the candidates after the completion of the competition and provides a reasoned proposal for a list of candidates. The founder shall appoint the director of the institution from the list. Therefore, the Management Board does not decide on a candidate for director of the institution. As an explanation for this change, you say that it will prevent possible abuses, powers from laws that have in practice led to poor human resources. Who guarantees that the founder will choose a better director differently and surely? The Ministry's relationship to the National Council for Culture is not great either. Why didn't the changes in the provisions governing the material and the status of this body start on time? Even this time the changes, except for a somewhat resolved material question, have brought nothing new. On the contrary, instead of the Council taking part in the creation of a cultural development strategy, he is only considering these changes and giving an opinion on the proposal for a strategy and giving an assessment of the implementation. If the Council is made up of experts from different fields of culture, why does it not give its opinion and suggestions about them before the law is passed? The National Council for Culture says that on this draft law he gave 20 amendments, 17 were rejected, one accepted, and two partially. It is obvious that the Council understands its work, protects cultural activities, and you respect it for not understanding its responsibilities, especially with regard to the Ministry. There are still a number of objections to the amendment of the law that we will discuss in particular. In the end, I can't take away a self-inflicted impression -- what else does it say about a law that casts art photography out of the field of cultural activity and introduces a circus? Parliamentary group Boris Tadic-SDS, Together for Serbia and Green Serbia, will not support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49072	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Ivan Tasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49073	Thank you very much for this exhaustive discussion, but here I somehow have two questions, as if you hadn't carefully read the law. Let's just say, I'm going from the end, specifically, about art photography. It falls under visual art, and then is mentioned in other members of the law, even specifically. But listening to you, I got the impression that just since 2009, we've had a perfectly perfectly perfectly decorated system of culture, in which absolutely everything worked, where the rules were exactly known, and then an evil minister came along who decided to change that perfectly perfect idyll. So I'm going to try to sort of sum up your discussion and give you the answers to the questions. Your first thesis was that the government was sending a message – we don't give money from the republican budget because we're saving. The only thing true in your sentence is to save, and logically that means we're not able to give more money. But that's why we have clearly built priorities, so I'll just draw your attention to a few facts. This year's biggest cinema budget has been set aside in, I think, the last 20-30 years. It's a thing I'm surprised you didn't notice. I'll also remind you that there has been a repurchasing contest for part of contemporary art that has been created in the last five years. There's a budget of 120 million. Last week was a presentation of our work that will represent us at the Biennial of Architecture in Venice. The largest amount of funds has also been allocated since Serbia is represented on the Biennial. So, the moment you determine what the priorities are, that's the moment you're simply giving the momentum to culture. It's one process. I don't like to quote myself, but culture is not about the sky, it's about the earth. It is a significant factor and a driver and economic and development, but without a strong economy you can't even invest as much as we would like in culture. Also, without strong culture, you don't have a successful society, and that's one of the things that we absolutely agree on. As for the institutions of culture of national importance, there is one elemental problem that has been from the very beginning. So, except for the name that's been put into the previous law and that really sounds extremely effective, regardless of what they've been declared to be cultural institutions of national importance and those institutions that are not at all, like the Cultural Educational Community, or put in comparison, say, the Guerneria Center together with something that... I'm not going to go into any details right now. However, this raises one problem that is the problem of funding, i.e. the budgetary nature. So, given that they are different founders, you are devising the entire Institute of Competition and the transparency of the competition if some institutions have a priority in funding. What's the competition for then? At that time, all institutions of national importance need to be transferred to a republican level. It's one of the things that, by the way, she didn't respect the law itself, as well as those items that were then declared unconstitutional. As regards national pensions, the previous law, to which we are today passing amendments and additions to the law, has been limited by the Government to grant recognition in the form of a lifelong monthly monetary income to an artist, or to an expert in culture for the ultimate contribution to national culture, or culture of national minorities. However, everyone here has missed that there is a member of the 13th that clearly says – to encourage cultural creation and cultural action, the government has established republican awards for a special contribution to cultural development and criteria for their assignment. So we've left space where we'll be able to reward those most significant artists whose work we absolutely recognize. But I do appeal to you not to play with that kind of demagogy about your concern, because something called the prize for a top-notch contribution to national culture must not be taken to the level of something being treated as social aid. Furthermore, the selection of directors and as far as the selection of directors is concerned, I think it is significant, not to think, but I am convinced that it is significantly improved, because the boards have to consider all candidates and give an explanation for all candidates, and not now to send the name of only one candidate. This is also in a way more legal protection for all other candidates who will have insight into the full documentation and thus we will have much more transparent competitions throughout Serbia, which I think will make a significant contribution to professionalisation. I understand absolutely, and I'm actually glad that this has been such a heated debate over the amendments and addition of the Law on Culture that has been going on for months, which confirms actually the importance of culture. I'll just remind you, the other day I saw a simple press clipping that was related to this 2009 Law and, except for those people who brought it themselves, and now they're criticizing it, most of the public also criticized it. So, simply, when you pass a law that is related to culture, which is such a broad area, you are very difficult to reach a complete consensus in society.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49074	Thank you. The word is made by MP Vesna Marjanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49075	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I listened carefully, of course, to Mr. Minister in his opening statement. I must admit that his speech, given all the circumstances and all the passions raised for the adoption of this law, which lasted several months, was more like the speech of a bureaucrat or one of us politician who, I say, is talking about some general places, principles that are more in the sky than on earth, as the minister would like to say. Otherwise, he was known in public for having a great passion, both as an artist and as a public figure, to fight for art, to fight, in his time, for philharmonicism, and therefore, I think, at a time when he was elected, he was chosen by almost full consensus and the public and, of course, the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the place where he is today. Unfortunately, two years later, or perhaps more, in his speech, in your speech, Mr. Minister, I no longer recognize that passion. I don't think there's any policy of good without passion, and there's even less good art without passion. If we are talking about heaven and earth, I would like to ask a question – who makes decisions in heaven and who on earth, if they are completely ignored and ignored concrete objections, amendments and a very passionate public reaction to this law, and who makes decisions in heaven or on earth if they respect what are the specific problems of artists? We haven't had a chance to hear from you on the board today, and now may be an opportunity to hear from you because, as MPs, we are interested in what is the political goal of bringing these changes and additions. What will the artists and institutions of culture have from this law, since this law applies to them right now, and we today had representatives of theirs on the Committee and we could hear their opinion not for the first time? Let me remind you, we heard their opinion at the public hearing in December 2014, about which there is a stenogram, we heard their opinion here at a meeting in November 2015 and there is also a note about it. I ask you, which of the experts supported the provisions of this law, those of the basic provisions of this law and those of the fundamental changes? Is that the National Cultural Council? It's not. Is it the UULUS, ULUPUDS, is it the Association of Ballet Artists, is it the Association of Drama Artists, are they the directors of national cultural institutions, are they artists, individuals, are they the bearers of national recognitions for the ultimate contribution to culture in the Republic of Serbia? I don't think you'll find any of them to support this. I would also like to say this, you have now reminded me of a public debate held in 2009 in the Assembly, when the first system law on culture was passed. It is true that there have been many criticisms, it is true that we have had heated debates here in the Assembly and elsewhere, but it is also true that more than half, if not every amendment that was proposed then, then the Minister of Culture accepted and introduced the bill at the time, which, unfortunately, is not the case this time. What I think, too, is that it is humiliating that, in the pre-election period, it is the impression that you, Mr. Minister, and your ministry are cleaning drawers and putting on the agenda such an important system law, that we will now be dumping it, even though it has been lying in the dust here in the procedure of the Republic Assembly. We believe in the Democratic Party, and therefore our parliamentary group has submitted about 40 amendments, so almost every member of this law, that it carries entirely wrong solutions in itself, that it is contrary to the interests of culture and artists, and unfortunately, in a large number of provisions, it is confusing, vague, and unfortunately illiterate, which we will prove by reason today in the principle debate, especially when we discuss amendments, which, in my opinion, you will agree, too, inadmissible for such a ministry as the Ministry of Culture. What characterizes this law is primarily a non-democratic approach to culture. He's trying to centralize decision-making in one man's image, that's the minister's personality. The possibility of artists and experts to influence the selection of cultural institutions' directors is being extended, thereby extending the possibility of political and party influence during their election, increasing the responsibility and obligations of cultural employees, especially independent artists, and in this law there is an inadmissible provision for the ministry to adopt a plan for the work of associations registered under the Association Act and which are autonomous in its work, therefore, not established by the ministry, that it has the right to adopt their work plan. There is an incredible circumstance here in Article 5, that the Ministry of Culture is defined according to culture as a full market activity, demanding that this law be brought into line with the State Aid Control Act, which primarily refers to free market participants and economic operators. What is interesting, this law does not require compliance with other laws which are vital to the work of artists and institutions, it is the Law on Mandatory Social and Health Insurance, it is the Law on Public Procurement, it is the Law on the Budgetary System, it is the Law on Labour. What caused, unfortunately, or fortunately, the most controversy in the public, is, of course, the granting of national recognitions to contribute to culture in the Republic of Serbia. It has even been said here that the result of these choices of competitions and the assignments of these confessions has compromised people, that the whole process has been compromised. You, Mr. Minister, used the words - to make it better for us to choose on a raffle, that's what we say at the Public Service, artists. I don't have time to read the names of the people who got these confessions, there's a lot of them, about 374-400. So, just to ask a question – are David Albahari, Radmila Bakočević, Svetlana Bojkovic, Ratko Božović, Bisera Veletanlic, Vladimir Veličković, Branka Vesenović, Milan Vlajčić, Sonja Vukicevic, Duško Gojković, Stjepko Gut, Filip David, Milena Dravic, Dragan Nikolic, Bora Dugić, Bata Živojnović, Purisa Djordjevic and many other people compromised? Or are these people who have spent their entire lifespan leaving a trail and works for culture or, if you will, for the identity of what makes us all as citizens of the Republic of Serbia? What was the influence that was being discussed here, so some people got confessions and didn't deserve them, first of all, we heard from fellow Dragojevic today, he deals with us on the math board, that it's a small percentage of 3-4%, and it's about people who came here with political influence, not the influence of artists. So, we politicians have disavowed this process and exerted illicit pressure. Why are we punishing artists for that? The same applies to cultural institutions of national importance. Why did Mr. Petkovic's ministry give me no idea how many, 60 institutions, if I'm not mistaken, maybe more? Well, go ahead and review it. Stop calling some people. But why end this call to the Yugoslav Cinematheque, the National Theatre, the Yugoslav Drama Theatre? What's this about? Shouldn't we be proud of those institutions that passed the test of time? Shouldn't they have that mark and therefore, of course, have a certain funding priority? It's the same farce about funding, the law is very clear how institutions of national importance are financed. There's no higher cost. I wouldn't get into it right now, I don't have enough time, but I'll talk about it when we talk about the amendments. My colleague Karavidic spoke about the hypocrisy that exists here when it comes to sports and culture. You are, in my opinion, perhaps unheard of, that the Minister of Culture says – there are not enough clear criteria for determining values in culture, it is much easier in sport. Well, I guess now we have to measure the artists with a stopwatch or let them run, or I don't know, play some sport? If that's true, if the rhombola is the only solution - did you, as director of Philharmonic, receive musicians by receiving them, or were you probably receiving people who met the criteria that they could play in that prestigious institution? Also, I must point out the problem of not adopting a strategy on the development of the culture of the Republic of Serbia. Your associates explained to us this morning that the first law should be passed, and then the strategy. I disagree, but even if there were different opinions, your obligation was under the Law on Culture to respect this Law and that this strategy was to be adopted in 2011. And, what's the fact, it's that until your arrival at the head of the ministry, every previous minister at least started working on that strategy, in conclusion with Mr. Petkovic, who was your direct predecessor. From the moment you took over the Ministry every work on making a strategy has stopped. We still don't understand the reasons why it happened. In the end, calling for a public debate, I think we heard it this morning from the representatives of the art associations, I think it's a farce. It has been repeated several times that during public debates, which you organised in Nis, Novi Sad and Belgrade, a very small number of people first appeared, excuse me, that you were not present at all these discussions, and you are responsible, politically responsible for hearing objections, that there were no records and that at the end of the most objections were not adopted at all. This is also the subject of a public listening stenogram held in this congregation. So, what public debate if all objections are actually ignored, or 90% of complaints ignored? That, in my opinion, is farce. As for international co-operation, which you highlight as a very important part of these changes. There will be opportunities, we will discuss article 42, which in my opinion does not encourage international co-operation, but directly endangers it. Prohibiting institutions from participating in competitions annually, where they have always received funds for international co-operation, and by introducing a completely unclear institute called – an organisation that is involved abroad in promoting our culture. So, what kind of organizations are these? Are these foreign organisations registered abroad and does this mean that our institutions no longer have the right to promote our culture in the international community? I'd like to say in the end, and the next thing I know, I'm trying to do it in a decent way, but I said it at the beginning. First, it's an offensive explanation you've given in this law. Here, I call on the MPs, if they want to find an explanation for any of these solutions that are proposed, they will not find them mostly in an explanation, and what is most terrible in certain cases is that there are material errors where they are called for in an explanation to some other member in which there is not at all what is proposed in the basic text of the law. The fact that the concepts are being puzzled, and in half the law uses the word area, in the second half of the words "activities", from the fact that the words of the authority of art, which does not exist in either the legal or cultural life, is that it seems as if someone has not read the law, has carried out a spelling of the law. I don't want to talk about it, and I find it kind of offensive. I want to finally say and ask you, in today's debate, how will these laws improve the position of artists and our institutions? Our independent artists, in a growing number, cannot be treated, have no medical books and are very socially endangered, and we have not noticed that you have launched any initiative to improve this matter, nor has such a proposal appeared in the bill that is before us. So, I call on you to hear your answers and I repeat, that the DS parliamentary group thinks this law is so bad that it would be best for the government to withdraw it, and if it doesn't pull it back so we can at least try to fix it a little bit by seriously respecting the large number of amendments that we have submitted to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49076	The word is made by Minister Ivan Tasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49077	Thank you for your comprehensive discussion. I'll try to answer all your questions. For starters, about the health books of independent artists, this is one of the problems we are dealing with together with the City of Belgrade. The problem has arisen, in fact, because of the debt from the time you were in the city administration and actually what's happening now, it's interest on contributions that you didn't pay in time. I don't know how to put it, but I apologize if you have the most trouble with the absence of passion in what I'm saying, simply, I think the subject we're dealing with is very serious, very complex. We are working very studioy on this, and I am trying, simply because of the sensitivity of this topic, because of your complete awareness that you are in some way manipulating people's feelings about artists who have taken their place, not just in the history of our culture, but absolutely in the hearts of all people. I'm just trying very hard to measure my words. You don't seem to know enough the concept of art from the concept of culture. When I talked about how difficult it is to establish criteria, it is because it is very difficult criteria that are related to art where you have a number of international awards or domestic awards that you can somehow put into competence and what to do completely with the protection sector. So, simply through this point of the 13th law that we've left, we're opening up space so we can value those people who made a special contribution and we're expanding that circle of people so they don't have to wait to retire to get that kind of national recognition. I don't know if the path to hell is paved by good intentions, but I'm sure the path to heaven isn't paved by bad intentions, but it seems to me that simply mentioning the number of amendments that were adopted, you didn't give the correct number first, because your colleague was sitting next to me in the same place and when the previous law was passed, and if I'm not wrong, the largest number of amendments adopted at the last moment were the amendments by Gorica Mojovic. As for the institution of culture of national importance, the Belgrade Philharmonic was one of those institutions and we didn't see any benefits except what we had, as I say, one title. Perhaps you forgot when there was a public debate here that you called, a public hearing in the Assembly, which you called a farce, I would never allow myself to call any public listening in the National Assembly of Serbia a farce. Here was the director of the Serbian National Theatre and my specific question – did he have any financial benefit, had there been a theatre, had any of the titles of the institution of culture of national importance? He made it very clear that he didn't. I can confirm that to you as director of the Belgrade Philharmonic, formerly, and that can be confirmed by any current director whose institution holds that title. It seems to me that simply through the success of the institutions, through their presence in the public it is simply achieved that name. And that's not a formal thing, I think it's indisputable, you're probably looking forward to seeing more than ten thousand people at the Museum of Yugoslavia for the first month. Just so I don't miss something. Were there any more... Yeah, I'd go back to a topic that's extremely sensitive to me. This is the theme of national pensions. It seems to me that, first thing, there is no possibility of revising an existing list. There are some of the most prominent names of our artistic scene, above all, but I have to tell you that the list of those who remained denied these national recognitions is far, far greater. As someone who grew up in an art family, for the sake of protecting the integrity of these people and their dignity, I won't read their names, and what I just counted this morning, it's actually almost the same list as the list of current holders of that recognition.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49078	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dusica Stojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49079	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected representatives of the Ministry of Culture and Information, dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, is important to point out at the outset that culture is a driver for the development of a community. She's not a public expense, as many left-handed people think. Culture is capital for future generations and only when we're aware of it can we move forward. The concept of culture is an abstract term and often we can't define it enough. We can't get enough legal interference and take care of it. Culture is not the same in the past today in the 21st century. The proposed amendments to the Culture Act are heading towards modernisation of cultural forms. In a new and modern way, they actually edit what new areas they are, which are new concepts by affirming this need in culture. The last two points on today's agenda that we are discussing today, and as regards the spatial cultural historical continent, the complex of the Kragujevac Military and Technical Institute for the immovable cultural well-being of exceptional importance, as well as the proposal for a decision on establishing the boundaries of the protected environment and the measures for the protection of the spatial historical continent of the City core of Sremski Karlovci, goes in the direction of the need and trend in which we, as a state, must be involved. Creative industries, creative economies everywhere are drivers of local economic development, tourism development through the creation of quality cultural offers and good tourism facilities. Projects like these can be used in the best possible way. We have examples of positive practices everywhere in the world. I remind you that one UK was the first country to focus politically on creative industries and to adopt an operational group for the creative industry within the Department of Culture, Sports and Media as early as 1997 began to use a term within the framework of state cultural policy. It defines creative industries as those industries that have origin in individual creativity, skills and talent and have the potential to create wealth and jobs through generation and exploitation of intellectual property. It is this pattern that we can apply to the British model that we can apply in Serbia as well. We need to include advertizing, architecture, the art and antiques market, old crafts, design, fashion design, film, video, photography, computer games, music, performing and visual arts, publishing, television and radio. All these positive examples must be incorporated into our legislation as well. The proposed amendments to the Law on Culture, which was adopted in 2009, contain certain irregularities. It contains certain problems that you and the rest of the public, the directors of public institutions, when they apply them. I'm going to rely on the basic problems these changes want removed. The National Council for Culture is an important institution in Serbia. It was just formed by this law, the 2009 cultural roof law. In proposing such a National Council for Culture and its integration into Serbia's legislation, the proposings were then keeping an eye on it and it was proposed by the reputation of the British model. As it has in practice shown itself or not to be effective, we can see that the legislators of the law at the time did not have the decency to provide these valuable people with the compensation, the space and other conditions of technical and administrative that were necessary for their work. We had previous colleagues and colleagues here who spoke and criticised the proposed amendments and additions to the law. I just want to say one thing, which is that based on the data that we received from the Ministry of Culture, based on the public debates held in Belgrade, Nisui Novi Sad, a total of two thousand and one amendment came, that 74 promoters participated in these changes, that of the 45 members proposed, 17 were accepted and included in the Government's proposal today. The work of the National Council and the amendments relating to the Amendments and Supplements relating to the National Council and which are presently in front of us, which are incorporated into the Law on Culture, will make the work of this particular body more effective, as it rightly deserves. More precisely, the law will be established and their powers will be legally determined, as well as the equal representation of all cultural activities in its work, with a view to overcoming the problems that have arisen in practice. In fact, there will be an opportunity for all cultural creators from all areas of culture to be treated equally in a way that they can equally exercise their rights within this National Council. The problems that have also arisen in the current practice of applying the Culture Act also referred to the selection process of cultural institutions directors. It is these proposed changes that will change this by better regulating the process and specify the process of electing the director of the institution of culture. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law will also refer to changes and the detours that the powers of the boards of directors, then not only the boards of directors but also the supervisory boards, their responsibilities, their obligations. The suspension of the Committee members is now for the first time clearly defined and legally restricted. Also, there will be conditions that must be met by future newly elected directors in terms of their expertise, experience in work, degree of education, thus creating preconditions to improve the quality of selected directors. All these changes are important for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, so that there is no phenomenon that was primarily from the adoption of this law, a phenomenon that ruled that one handful of people decided on everything in the area of culture, from the setting up of directors, through the assignment of funding, to the approval of projects, the printing of catalogues, the ordering of works. Dear fellow Members of the People, I would like to point out one statement that American historian Arthur Schlezinger said when he wanted to hinder the notion of culture. "The first step towards destroying a nation is to erase its memory. We destroy books, culture and history and then find someone to write his books, produce a new culture and invent a new history. The nation will soon begin to forget what it is and what it is." Thank God for the changes in 2014, so we did not allow this handful of misery to continue to govern the fates of cultural creators and artists in Serbia. Reminds of what preceded the adoption of the 2009 roof law, I would like to remind my fellow MPs that a group of intellectuals, 15.000 of them, signed a petition and forced the then authority to fulfill its pre-election promise made in squares and cities across Serbia, meaning nine years of five-octobaric changes and passed a law that began to apply in 2010. I ask the question - what was it that prevented the current culture ministers who were replacing themselves, who were on the Democratic Party lists, from adopting a national strategy that they talk a lot about today? Of course, the responsibility of the current Ministry and the current Minister for National Strategy should not be ignored and I ask you – do you have a limited period of time when we expect, after the adoption of the amendments and the amendment of the Law on Culture, to find the adoption of a national strategy on the agenda of the Ministry, which is necessary for us to become part of the modern world, so that we can ultimately apply to many international projects that our cultural creators deserve? Also, I would like to say that some kind of collegiate over the memories of the citizens of Serbia has gone beyond the memories of some kind of couture on some names that have created cultural policy, which have decided on projects that will be financed, which have affected the fates of all of us, from authors, creators, to us ordinary consumers and cultural lovers. The ruling set of the Democratic Party has so devastated Serbia and Belgrade's culture that their performance is difficult to repair in the years to come. Some names we've completely forgotten. Someone mentioned earlier a prominent official of the Democratic Party, Mrs. Gorica Mojovic, who was former assistant mayor of Belgrade for culture, a former MP, a current member of the Democratic Party's main board, who started her work in the field of culture as a member of the Communist Union and, in the memory of the people of this period, decided minority about everything in the area of culture. She decided which works would be printed, which works would be seen by the light of the day, and which works she would not. She was a famous composer of strategies and documents on culture, so much so that she kind of hid herself from a circle of two in Belgrade, that she continues to try to burn and burn and plot on a crippled and beggarly stick brought to Belgrade's culture, which she mostly contributed to. The last time I met her at SOFEST, I was taking pictures with the current president of Sopot Municipality. I call on Mrs Mojovic, as well as all members of the opposition, members of the Committee on Culture and Information, to visit the institutions of culture in Belgrade and to see what condition the Democratic Party has left them in. I like to simply quote the famous Mom Capora, who best described the phenomena that have been happening to us in culture. "A group of small dictators holding all the theatres, all the galleries, all the museums and all the institutes, the yellow culture inherited the red." The current chairman of the Committee on Culture and Information today said at a session of the Committee on Culture and Information, and in fact admitted that politicians and governments were putting pressure and putting their people in a place that was not there and that everyone else was being punished for it, without a doubt recognising the work of the Democratic Party in the period before 2013. I would like to remind the MPs of the following, a very important document, that is a report on the work of the Ministry of Culture and Information for the period 2011, which reached the period of ministry of two Ministers of Nebojja Bradic and Predrag Markovic. What did the state auditors find? Former Culture Ministers paid 36% of employees in the name of solidarity aid. I would like to remind the citizens of Serbia that solidarity aid is given in the event of a serious illness of an employee or a family member. What does that mean? This means that, according to the culture ministers in the previous regime, 36% of people were seriously ill or their families were seriously ill. Also, I'd like to present another piece of information. So 2.3 million dinars were given to explore the need to develop a strategy for cultural development. That strategy didn't even see the light of day today. Also, airline tickets and hotel accommodation paid 2.8 million dinars without public procurement procedures. It was more important for them to travel, but in some other ways they carried out this financing process beyond public procurement. When we remembered, and my colleague, Mrs Mirjana Dragas, reminded you of the situation in culture, the closure of libraries, the abandoned homes of cultures in Serbia, she reminded you of what was all done as the registers of the Ministry of Culture and Information were empty in previous years. I call on competent institutions, primarily the Anti-Corruption Agency, but also other investigative authorities, to check the property cards of the then representatives and then leaders who created Serbia's cultural policy. Now I'd like to go back to the proposed changes and additions to the roof law on culture. We know that the three basic functions of one country's culture are the processivity, socialization processes and institutionalisation processes. They are precisely woven and are important to find themselves in the existing amendments to the Law on Culture. What you just said, Mr. Minister, and as far as national pensions are concerned, there is no way of revising national pensions anymore. What I can say about the team as a member of the Committee on Culture and Information, I think it is a bad strategy that you provided to us in the explanation of Article 14, to delete Article 14, which is that it is no longer in the proposal for a new law, and could you still do something to preserve national pensions? Could some kind of revision have been done to the criteria for granting national pensions? Is it possible in a more transparent way to edit the Commission's work on national recognitions, so that the occurrences that have occurred, which are contradictory, the phenomena that are dangerous, the phenomena that have occurred and which have put Albahari, Pekic, Pavic and one Miroslav Milic in the same plane? It happened that the national pensions from 2007 to 2013, until some kind of suspension of this important recognition was carried out, which is that estrada, Mr. Srdjan Dragojevic today said three to five percent, but it happened that these very estrate artists were coming, getting the right to receive a national pension. It is precisely some national pensions have been allocated beyond the competition and beyond the official elections. What's the strategy now, how do we get out of this situation? Is the ministry planning to continue with the application of Article 13 of the current law, which allows the government and the ministry to propose on an annual basis a one-year cash compensation, so that the process of stimulating top-level creation in Serbia does not stop? Do you feel that by eradicating Article 14 you are actually punishing artists who have not yet had a chance to get this confession? I think it is important and important to regulate the area of culture, that it is important to regulate this area in the right way and with my colleagues from the SNS, the MPs, I have submitted a number of amendments to make the text of this law better and to remove all the problems and difficulties that have been in place since its adoption since 2010 until today. I also have a question for Minister Tasovec. The 3rd position proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia found no position regarding the preservation of the Serbian language and the Cyrillic letter. I remind you it's a constitutional provision. Article 10. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia defines the Serbian language and Cyrillic letter as a constitutional category that we must adhere to. What has also bothered me when I read the proposal has increased the number of powers of the minister since the election of the commission, the adoption of a solution that determines the representativeness of the Structural Associations, and I ask you the Ministers – what have you been handling in determining the criteria for granting higher powers to you, as Minister, and the future ministers to which this law will be applied? We can't make laws our way. I want to remind you of the famous work of Charles Monteski who wrote: "The truth is that in democracy the people seem to do whatever they want, but political freedom does not consist of doing what they want. In one country, i.e. in a society where there are laws, freedom can only be made up that we can do what we have to do and that we are not forced to do what we cannot do. We should keep in mind what independence is and what freedom is. Freedom is the right to do everything the laws allow, and if a citizen might do what the laws forbid, there would be no more freedom, because others would have that power." When we apply this quote to this case, the same applies to the freedom of citizens in a democratic society, but also to the minister as a representative of the executive government. Finally, as a member of the Committee on European Integration, I would like to refer to the process of European integration and Chapter 26 concerning education and culture. What I would like to say to you, as members of the Committee on Culture, we receive recommendations from the National Convention in the process of joining our country's EU, we are expected to open and open new chapters. The said Chapter 26 will also come to the agenda. In Chapter 26, we do not have the EU Directive, the European Commission, but we do have a Working Group which is made up of the National Convention on Chapter 26 where we need to consider with attention the recommendations we have received from them. We must strengthen and improve co-operation with civil society organisations, in order to engage as a state in the process of European integration and in order for our culture to find the right place in EU cultures, in order to meet the full concept -- united in diversity, which is one of the EU's basic mottos. I would ask you, as members of the Committee on Culture and Information, to provide us with a four-year report on the work, on the implementation of the UNESCO Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Variety of Cultural Expressions and the need for this report to be held...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49080	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49081	... And on the official site of the Ministry of Culture, I ask you to pass it on to your associates and fill it in as soon as possible. Also, I would like the practice that existed when it comes to funding projects in the field of culture, but also many other areas that are not within the scope of your ministry's work to be more transparent and that spending costs through such projects can be made available to the public... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49082	Thank you, colleague Stojkovic. The word is made by Minister Ivan Tasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49083	I thank you for your discussion. Just one little correction. You did, I suppose, a lapus, because the number of proposals received by law members is not 2001, but 201. So, the law strictly states that all sublaws are passed within six months, and the strategy within a year. Indeed, the question arises – which is why the law, which began to apply in 2010, had the same provision. We didn't change it, he didn't simply fulfill that task. What I can tell you is that all the time, during our term of office, we've been out of line, because at one point three or four completely different strategies have been found within the ministry. Our assessment was that it was necessary to access a fully comprehensive analysis. We have had here and for the first time experts from the Council of Europe who have done the evaluation of cultural policy since 2001 until today, so that at this moment we are still collecting materials parallel to work on these amendments and additions to the law so that we can, together with all partners, and there is, of course, the National Council for Culture and Civil Sector, through wider consultations, at the moment when we have the basis of this strategy, we approach adoption. We have a year for that. You mentioned here a report from some of the former state audit committees. What may have remained completely undetected in public is that the State Audit Committee gave a positive report on the work of the Ministry of Culture and Information for 2014. It's one thing we're very proud of, given that it seems to me to be the first positive report the Ministry of Culture and Information has received for many years. When asked about whether we could find some other way about national pension criteria, it seems to me that we have to face the fact that, as a society, we are still not ready to take on that kind of responsibility. The list of people who haven't justifiably received these pensions is actually bigger than those who have completely earned those pensions. So that we don't keep repeating this same kind of demagogue mistake that sounds good, and it creates a constant dissension, because here it's not a question of debate, it's a question of dissension within the profession itself, within the association itself. It seems to me that at this point, the most rational institution is to be abolished, and through this institute, which is at point 13, simply consider what our next steps will be. I'm saying again, don't limit it that you have to be careful, another paradox, to retire in order for someone to valorize your work, and what happens to those young artists who contribute to national culture. By the way, at this point, we have five films on "Berlinal" waiting for their prime minister. As for Cyrillic, which is not particularly apostrophe in this law, it falls under the immaterial cultural heritage. It regulates the Law on Official Use of Language, and through various types of projects the Ministry of Culture and Information has, through the process of digitisation, pay special attention to Cyrillic as one of the European values Serbia can present to the whole world. As for strengthening the minister's role, the minister makes decisions based on commission decisions, the minister signs every decision, and this is no discretionary right. I'll give you an example through the competitions that have just been completed. These are competitions from the field of information. As you know, the commissions are mostly representatives of journalists and media associations. They're most of them. The ministry of culture chose members of the commission, not by political definition, but by expertise. So they gave their candidates the Guardian of Citizens and the Trustee of Gender Equality and the Protector of Information Privacy. Also some of the biggest critics of ours also had active participation here, from the site "The Truthomer" and now not to list. I signed every decision because it seems simple to me that the moment I changed commission decisions, that moment would simply lose the sense that for each area, and this year alone in culture we will have 28 different competitions, forming costs, although I can't say that seeing the results of this competition, I wouldn't be very pleased to take that burden to decide everything myself. Fortunately, we live in a democratic society, Serbia changes from day to day, so it's simply a formalization of what it is. The commissions are the ones who make decisions, the commissions are the ones who will make decisions, I guess you were also thinking about the representativeness of the association, and that's simply the principle that the Ministry of Culture and Information is always behind. As far as European integration is concerned, I would mention one more thing here, which is that Serbia has fully accessed the Creative Europe programme and the media sub-programme, so that at this point our experts, our artists, our cultural scene can apply to funds worth almost a billion euros. The "Creative Europe" desks were also formed at the Ministry of Culture and Information, the "Antena Desk" was formed in Vojvodina, and now the "Media Desk" was formed at the Serbian Film Centre, so I think it will give another impulse to our contemporary art and creative industries. I fully agree with you that it is absolutely necessary to further strengthen dialogue with the civil sector. We are intensively here, precisely with an independent cultural scene and with a whole other series of organisations, through this dialogue came up with things that have changed in the rules of competition that we are now calling, so I, with full right, expect that exactly an independent cultural scene in the same way that she was going out with criticism at this point simply with, I don't want to prejudge, praise, but simply with my view of how co-operation between the civil sector and the Ministry of Culture and Information is at this point.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49084	Thank you. The People's Messenger Nenad Milosavljevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49085	The Honorable Chairman, Mr Minister, respected fellow Members of Parliament, it is clear that the proposal for a law on culture is a very important legal act in essence and content. This confirms great interest in both the professional public and the MPs. This law is very important for the future of Serbia's culture, cultural creation and cultural heritage. Serbia's policy culture has been translated into this law. So this is a roof law that defines everything that is the future of preserving and improving Serbia's culture. Recognizable directions are given to the development of our culture and the role of all cultural factors in this development. What is good is that the law defines the general interest in culture, which should give positive effects in funding projects in the field of culture. The state will finance all institutions and projects of general, i.e. national interest, and the conditions of funding and co-financing of cultural projects are more precisely arranged. This should enable equal representation of various cultural activities and transparent access to cultural resources, both from domestic sources and from international funds. In this way, available funds will be used adequately. All activities of measures and forms of cultural activities aim to achieve quality cultural content, promote our culture, develop and preserve Serbia's cultural treasure. These are the good side of the law. I fully support these good parties, however, there are a number of open issues in the law on which there are expressed dilemmas in the professional public. These dilemmas primarily concern the question of the status of current national cultural institutions on the issue of national recognitions, i.e. pensions that are abolished by this law. Then, on the question of how to finance contributions to pension and disability insurance by local authorities, i.e. municipalities, taking into account the problems facing local self-government. In that sense, I wanted to ask the minister to answer some questions, but the minister is already to answer a number of questions, so I don't want to repeat myself. What I am convinced is that through today's debate, through the answers and views that the minister will present today, as well as through the debate in particular, we will come up with the most optimistic solutions and, of course, because of the need to lay the legal foundation of Serbia's cultural policy, we will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49086	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49087	Thank you very much. It's been a long debate. She was public. Whether it was fertile or not, we can hardly assess it as positive because we have a bad law ahead of us. I don't think there are any institutions in culture that have supported this law, nor has the parliamentary committee supported this bill, nor has the previous speaker who has now come out supported this bill and the question is why is he so insisting on a bad bill? What's wrong? Centralisation, the detachment of the National Council for Culture and Management Committees, an attempt to put Serbia's culture in the hands of one man, with all due respect for his artistic work, I think it is too much to take on these weak shoulders. For the poor man's shoulders to anyone. Simply, there are very strange explanations in this law. We get an explanation that national pensions in culture are abolished, and the sport remains, because when they are assigned, there are discussions in the public. Look at the wonders, the dangers, the discussions, and even the public. The second argument I heard now, that a lot of people were left without that recognition of a national pension, so that's why it was abolished. I'd like to see logic, any logic in that sentence. So let's tell people who want to deal with the art of sports, not to waste time at the academy, practice, prepare for their art work, have them run nicely, throw something or similar, and then it'll be easy to measure their success, because this is supposed to be hard to measure. The law didn't answer, and the minister probably won't give it, when will the contemporary art gallery be finished, renovating it? The question is the same when is it going to stop working this clock at the National Museum, since it is the only thing that has been done significantly in the mandate of this government and this minister, to be seen outside? The question is, what about the director of Belgrade's National Theatre? There is also no answer in this law, and if this law solves the election of the director of the National Theatre in Belgrade, if you convince me that this law will solve this, we may vote for it. Because it would really be a great success if within a year this ministry was elected by the Director of the National Theatre. Of course, in cultural division, those poor 0.6%, and it was a promise even personally that it would be at least 2.5%, so none of it happened, divided by personal preferences that are more than obvious. For example, for a mahogany festival financed by its own resources, which is the Jazz Festival "Nishville", that some church, and for the Mokrogorje family home cinema, there is always money there, and all ministers, including the current ones, are very pleased to leave, in the hope that they will receive some domestic animal or some other specific prize that the organizer of the home festival usually gives. The new party is preparing several laws that should seriously regulate this area and will be told more later by counterpart Pavicevic. We've had 14 amendments to this law, but also the adoption of those 14 amendments can hardly fix the whole law. So, to your surprise, I'm going to tell you that we're going to vote against this law. I think it would be a good idea that in these pre-election days, when the government is in resignation, including the present minister, there is no need to spoil its artistic career, which is undoubtedly successful, by one bad law at the end of his ministerial career. This is another evidence of bad conditions in Serbia, that one bad government, that a generic bad policy can lead to the wrong side and those people who really in their youth and in their personal work have produced huge, large and good results, and then have become part of the poor average that marks the work of the government of Aleksandr Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49088	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Ivan Tasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49089	Thank you for your discussion. I must say in the beginning that I do not agree with you that this law is bad, because if I thought it was bad, we would never bring it out primarily for public debates, then to public hearing, then to the Serbian Government and finally to the MPs, on which the final decision is at the end of the line. I suppose when you mentioned the Gallery of Contemporary Art, you meant the Museum of Contemporary Art. I have to tell you that I believe that the budget money didn't end up in private pockets and that we were able to prevent it, that it's actually more benefit than I've submitted justifiable criticism for not having a respected deadline for opening that museum. Also, as for the National Museum in Belgrade, if you noticed, in the meantime, complete work on the facade was completed, as was the restoration of all 276 windows that were there and public procurement for the performers of works at the National Museum. As for the other things, I don't know how to tell you, I don't know what to answer to your message to tell young people to play sports. I mean, it's undoubtedly a healthy thing for everyone, but if you think it's a motive that someone should be engaged in sports that to get a national recognition or... I mean, I don't know what the whole story was about, because it's like telling young people to do art and retire as soon as they can so they can get a national confession. I'm glad your client is preparing, as far as you said, three draft laws. I didn't notice on your party's website any mention of culture, unlike education. Maybe I wasn't looking closely enough, or maybe there wasn't enough browsing on the site. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49090	Replication to mention your client? (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: I to that. You have two minutes right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49091	Thank you. I am very happy that the minister is following political parties' websites, but I am sorry that he does not follow them closely, or read them carefully. You have, of course, in the manifesto, a few sentences are mentioned in the basic document, a passage on culture, with what to do, and also mentioned in some other documents. There's no culture program, that's right. The Lapsus Gallery of Contemporary Art, not the Museum, is the consequence that I am Nislija, and there is a gallery in Nis, so it's used to it. I don't understand what you don't understand about sports. There is no excuse for abolishing national pensions. Of course no one should start to deal with art or culture or sports because of retirement, but it's not an argument to abolish them. Your argument that I've seen in some media is that it's easy to measure it in sports, and that it's hard to measure in culture and art. Well, let's get rid of some other stuff then. It's hard to measure many things, but that doesn't mean we have to run away from that decision-making weight, but we have to say - we're not capable of it. Whoever doesn't know how to do it, he has to say, I don't want to do it, I don't know how to do it, and I don't know how to resign, not to cancel something. So we can remove the institutions, so let's say -- let's cancel this National Museum because no one can restore it, renovate it in the last 12 years or 13, and we can cancel it, and we can make the museum a reality show, or we can build a Beograd on water museum, or a model museum, or a museum of such content.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49092	Time, fellow Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49093	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49094	The word is made by Minister Ivan Tasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49095	The moment you become a minister of culture, you can create a reality museum, and in no way do we recognize one of the priorities, unlike the National Museum. What will surely make you happy is that during this time 80% of what will make the new permanent setting fully restored and ready to show the audience the moment the museum opens the door. But you said one thing we should all be aware of, the museum has been closed for 12 years. I would have been very happy if it hadn't been closed 12 years ago or that reconstruction had been completed in the past 12 years. So, I just don't think it's correct to mention 12 years of closure of the museum, it's a shared responsibility absolutely to all of us and I've already said it. I take my responsibility, but what is quite clear, is that for the mandate of this government, the work has been launched and that it has been done simply more than in all previous years. That's one thing. Next, I can't figure out what your proposal is, to end these awards in sports or... ? It just seems to me that these are things that are not for comparison. I will return to the story that was right at the beginning of my term, when I said it was one of the top priorities to separate into funding the Ministry of Culture and informing what a culture of estherade is. We have done it completely and consistently. You won't find a single estranged manifestation that the Ministry of Culture has funded. But now we're at the next step, when it's necessary to recognize all the differences within the system of culture and actually recognize the difference between what art is, which you most easily recognize, from what the system of protection is, because it's very difficult to establish unique criteria, and I repeat it over and over again. So for someone who works in archives, we have about 680 archival experts, whose hands actually go through complete documentation, the entire history of our country. Or work in libraries. How do you value the work of a ballet player and a museum expert, a curator? If it were possible, it would have been possible since 2010, since this recognition was granted, it would not have caused public debate, but I repeat it again – it would have caused one bad blood and would have caused very negative reactions in the audience, in the general public who commented in a very negative way. We as a society must mature, we must work very hard on both democratisation and transparency. The Serbian government is making every effort to improve these processes and I sincerely hope that we will find this model where we will have the national recognitions that our artists deserve. But don't forget one more thing. You're talking about a category that I don't know any country in the region has, except for Montenegro. You're talking about an institute that was actually extremely strong at the time of the Soviet Union and East Germany. European countries do not have that kind of state recognition. You have different kinds of rewards being awarded. But I'm just asking that we don't do this kind of demagogy to take something away from someone here. We are trying to create a functional system of culture, to present our culture in the best possible way, and that is impossible without clear and enforceable laws. Secondly, if you limit that number of national recognitions each year, that means that you have already narrowed down the criteria, because how can you know whether in one generation there was a certain number of artists who owed the culture or not?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49096	On what grounds are you looking for a word, colleague Zivkovic? (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. Let me explain. You can't give the Minister an explanation. This is where the minister gives the explanation. I'm sorry. And last time you were on the verge of being a replica, it would be too much now. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49097	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, there are two Rules of Procedure. One for me, one for the opposition. Just say it - your party, so that someone gets the right to reply. I respect that tolerance, and in the name of that tolerance, I don't want to talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49098	The People's Messenger Mr Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49099	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, respected guests from the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, respected Nišlija, today we are talking about a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Culture. You've heard a lot of different discussions and different attitudes, but what is the essence of these changes can be grouped into a work concerning the selection of directors of institutions in culture, then something about national councils, national recognitions and funding of projects in culture. It's something that's very modern now. There is no longer a classic budget financing, but we have the funding of projects in culture, so that the most qualitative projects can get the most funding and make an affirmation in their area in the best way. What other MPs of the assembly majority were saying at the outset, how they will vote when the voting day comes, judging by the minister's thinking and the answers to all the suggestions and remarks he had, based on what was on the Committee on Culture today, here, Minister, I will not vote for your law in front of the party together, because I think the law is not bad but very bad, so in the coming minutes I will try to explain to you, and also to the citizens who, I hope, are watching this, which is why I don't want to vote for this. My colleagues Branka Karavidic and Vesna Marjanovic spoke enough about national councils, so I would not repeat it and take time for fellow Members. A few words about supervisory committees, institutions and the selection of directors. Under this new law, the supervisory boards will no longer choose, i.e. The boards of directors will not choose the director of institutions, but will only conduct an interview and complete documentation to forward to the founder, whether it is local self-government or ministry, which will decide and appoint directors. I don't see any reason why it's done. In local self-government, people who don't know enough about culture, who don't know enough about people. Supervisory and management boards are usually chosen by people who are closely related to work, hobby, anything for culture and who know much better those people who run for head of the institution than some administrator or politician from local self-government. Since the assembly majority has appointed these boards of directors, I really don't see why you don't trust your members and political representatives in these institutions to choose quality directors? It is that there are examples, let's say, like in Nis, you know, the National Theatre and all the fams that were, all the arguments that the person who was proposed, I wouldn't want to talk about it right now, not being the director, because it's not in accordance with the law, normally, the congregation majority, the policy has been resolved and the man is still the director. So I don't see why you're doing this at all? Because at the time, you renamed this condition of a five-year job internship that it could also be some student activity at the Faculty of Drama Arts, but that's what the media people know much better, they worked it out much more in detail. I cite as an example that there is no need to decide local self-government when the board of directors and supervisory board of the National Theatre quite well solved it. What's very important and what I'd like to talk about and share a few thoughts with you, it's a project financing that, as far as this ministry is concerned, is disastrous, at least as far as the city of Nis is concerned. I'll remind my fellow citizens what it looks like. Namely, the Jazz Festival or Nisville, which is traditionally held every year, this year, received a million dinars from the ministry, while the city from its budget, which is 65 per cent of the budget, allocated the rest of the money, which is about 17 million dinars, although they asked for it, and I think the ministry should support it, because not all cultural events can happen in Belgrade, there is probably something outside Belgrade, under Sava and Danube. The ministry decided not to be broke, but it gave one million dinars. Now let's say -- and that "Nishville" is not something, although it is an international festival. The Film Meetings, which also applied for project financing, received about three million dinars, far, far less than real needs. I repeat again, the city of Nis, as much as I want it to continue the tradition, can hardly do it. And I'm going to remind you that "Film meetings" last longer, I was very small, I didn't even go to school when they started, and I was a kid long ago. We have experienced that the Ministry does not recognize that such a festival should last, because it has a long, long tradition, and it has sent an organisational committee to the city, and I say that the city with 65% budgeting can hardly function in those basic things, let alone finance projects from culture. Although, I'm telling you, the city has given 19 million film meetings, so as not to break tradition and that in the coming summer in Nis it would be recognizable for, on the one hand, Nisville, and on the other hand for the Film Meetings. The chorus celebrations that also applied for the project at the Ministry received something between millions and two dinars, which is insignificant in relation to the importance of the ceremony and tradition that there are also choirs coming from all over Europe to compete there. So, if the Ministry didn't recognize that some cultural events could happen in Nis too, which are important and affirmative for the Republic of Serbia, while, say, the art colony in Sitceva, I don't think it's got a single dinar, and if it applied. I don't know why the art colony in Sitchev isn't interested in the Ministry. I can see from your advisors that they will give you an answer as to why. Low music celebrations – they went through the same disastrously with your project funding. What is interesting, the Youth Philharmonic “Naisus” under the conductor stick Zorna Antića was invited to an international festival of serious music, a youth international festival in Los Angeles. Since the city couldn't finance such an activity, and I'm talking about a Philharmonic made up of members of the musicians from 18 Serbian cities, our Ministry offered one modest sum of money, and that choir didn't go to the competition. The orchestra, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, he didn't go to the competition. Why? There's a minister, he'll probably have some strong reason and a strong excuse, because we've been listening to quality excuses all day. But I appeal to the people of Nis that we would no longer be in this situation if I read these numbers, the elections are close, the people come out, round and done. And problem solved. According to this, I think, Mr. Minister, in Nis, at least as far as your ministry is concerned, you have no sympathy, at least with the MPs from your area, and since you're talking about the National Museum and how the reconstruction is not finished, I remind you that there is a foundation in Nis for the National Museum, it has grown into weeds in the city center. Well, I would ask that at least as a representative of the Ministry and Government, you order at least to cut the grass around that weed, because the hole is deep and empty, and as far as I can see, this government has no intention of doing anything to make that object that the city of Nis needs, and the city of Nis is the largest urban, and the largest urban settlement south of Belgrade, and deserves to have such a new facility. I hope you're at least trimming that weed so there won't be a mockery in the middle of town. It's Skopje Street, but it's the narrow center of town and it's supposed to look like something. Especially when I mention your ministry and the upcoming elections, I would remind the citizens of Nis and the public service that thanks to your ministry and the lack of understanding of this government and your ministry was lifted under Sava and Danube. You told me then, when the law was passed, that the public service of RTS would adequately consider the needs of local self-government. I can tell you we're still 30 seconds a day. A city with more than 250,000 inhabitants, and those who are smaller, they are somewhat less and less rare, but it is not a problem, people will get used to it, and there is no need to have information from their immediate surroundings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49100	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Ivan Tasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49101	I thank you for this exhaustive discussion. What we both agree is that Nis is a wonderful city, wonderful people. I thank them for their kindness every time I visited Nis, it is indeed a pleasure. However, I have to distract you now, I will try, I will personally turn the phone of the city greenery in Nis tomorrow morning and order them to cut the grass. I don't know to what extent they'll accept that order of mine, but trust me, I'll be extremely sharp. However, there is one other thing that concerns me and is very important to explain, primarily because of the citizens of Serbia. You don't really understand the functioning of the commission and why they're needed. The committees from different areas are here to determine what the priorities are, and I have not changed a single decision during my ministerial term. I think it's a very big shift over all previous ministries when discretionary funds were financed, not just small projects, but when they first appeared, even large film projects of national importance. I think that with this practice we simply stopped, one big shift, first of all, in transparency, in spending budgets on one side, and on the other hand, in really creating what is the right quality. Also, you've counted numerous events here in Nis. I have to draw attention to you that the Nis Film Meetings have not filed a report on the funds spent and they even had to return the non-intentional funds. I'll have to remind you of a time when Nisville had to reregister from Nisville d.o.o. at the Nisville Foundation. How can I say, we're just finding facts at this point, I'm not prejudicing anything. But I have to tell you, there must be a difference between what is simply the independence of a commission that can judge for itself and are enough expert commissions to assess whether something is more commercial, or something that requires support for the Republic of Serbia's budget. As for Nimus, you also need to know, it means that Nimus didn't even apply for the funds, and then went public that he didn't get the funds. However, what I want to do at this point, to encourage absolutely all institutions in Nis, is to compete maximumly in the competitions of the Ministry of Culture and Information, because it seems to me that, how can I tell you, you only mentioned festivals here, but I want to encourage before all those institutions that work all year long to compete with their programmes because you can't base one serious culture of a city, exclusively and only at festivals, but above all on institutions that are available to citizens throughout the year. Also, I have to look at this issue concerning the election of directors, just this way, when the boards of directors deliver the lists with an explanation, thus giving the opportunity for these other candidates to have the ability to see and be able to appeal, as well as in the ultimate line of the Ministry of Culture and Information, to be able to at the time when they see some procedural or professional errors, react and to have the possibility to react essentially and not just declareably as it was in some previous cases, because there are clearly defined instructions of what the institutions of culture are at the republican level and what the institutions of culture are at the local level, where local self-government determines the directors.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49102	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Bradiche, on what grounds? (Blagoje Bradić, from town: Replica. The minister didn't understand me. The minister understood you well. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49103	Thank you. I was a little surprised. I see there were other speakers before me. So, Mr. Tasovac, in your opening statement several times, you said that culture is a point of consensus and that it is something that we all have to agree on and that this consensus in the area of cultural development is something that is unusually important for the development of culture and that we could agree with you there. That is why my question – where was this consensus when this law on culture was passed? This morning we spoke with representatives of the National Council for Culture, the Serbian Book Society, the Association of Ballet Artists, the Association of Drama Artists, the Association of composers, the Association of Literature Translators, the Association of Fine Arts, the Association of Fine Arts, the designers of Serbia, they were all against this bill. You say, some are in. I'm asking you who's in? If all the representative associations of artists in this country said they were against this law this morning, I ask you, who are these associations, who are these artists, who are these cultural people who support this law? In the end, who do you make this law for? If people who work in culture, if people who work in culture, if people who have spent their whole life devoted to culture, don't agree with the solutions in this law, who do you agree with, who do you make this law, and what kind of improvements in culture will it make, which is, I believe, the basic goal and the basic purpose of this law? What's the problem is that it's not there. We do not see how this bill will solve any problem that we have today in culture. People who deal with culture, who live from culture, who live for culture, say that it will make their problems difficult, that it will not solve any problems, and everything that the law solves, solves in such a way that it is even worse arranged than it is now. Far from the fact that the previous law was perfect. We see that there have been abuses, we see that there have been various misunderstandings, but what you're doing is you're solving your incompetence now by punishing people who do culture. Please, what it says on page 19 of this bill, page 5 of the reasoning, is something, I've been an MP since 2007, I've seen no such explanation in my life, Mr Tasovac. It is about abolishing national recognitions for the ultimate contribution to culture. The main objective, which is to achieve this measure, is to end a public discussion which every year, when this recognition was granted, has significantly compromised both the proposed candidates and the members of the commission, etc. Mr. Tasovac, what do you mean, by any law to end the discussion of the public? And how is the government of the Republic of Serbia not ashamed to propose laws whose justification is that they aim to end the discussion in public? We know that Mr. Vukic wants to rule the country by "silence there" principle. Apparently, every minister in the government believes that it can be small Vukic and that the "silence there" principle can be applied to any area of life. In culture, as we saw this morning, it can't be applied and you'll see it won't work. So you can't arrange the area of these so-called so-called. National pensions and what is your answer – we will abolish them. There have been abuses - we will put an end to it. Why can't it be revised? Why can't you see, I think some board members said right this morning, from all those people who deserved to get pensions, between three and five percent of those pensions got unearthed. Because three percent of the people received this undeserved kindness, you decide to put an end to it and to those who deserve it and to those who earn it. What's the number of people who won't get those confessions and who deserve it because you don't have the political strength to solve those cases that might have gotten those pensions undeserved. The same case is with cultural institutions of national importance. Why these institutions have 60 or 70 really ask Mr. Petkovic, this is a problem between the two of you, but this cannot be a reason to abolish the status of the cultural institution of national importance. You, Mr. Tasovac, have now misused the appropriate Ms. Marjanovic, what happened in public listening. Stanographic notes are clear. Mr. Aleksandar Milosavljevic is the Serbian National Theatre, whose words you have abused, in order for Mr. Vukic to say, to get out of context, he actually said, I read what was at that meeting – As we came to the number of 60 and something, I don't even know what I'm getting into it. I think you'll agree that it's not a problem for culture institutions that are truly of national importance. The fact that one of your predecessors had his hand and hat shared the status of cultural institutions of national importance under criteria that were not defined by law. I know what the procedure was for getting that status, and I know that we've been waiting for the sublegal act for a long time, that they had to prove that they were founded in 1861, that the oldest professional theater that has continued to work for 154 years so far, etc. And he says – I remind you, Mr. Tasovac, of a statement in which you have gained the sympathy of the entire cultural public, which is one of the first statements you have chosen as minister, you said that culture is defended through institutions, by strengthening key institutions, and certainly among those 60 institutions that are by chance and by neglect of Mr. Petkovic or by ignorance or by bad intention, it really does not matter which reason 60 cultural institutions have acquired the status of an institution of culture of national importance. At least part of it had reason to be a cultural institution of national importance. You are now unable to determine which institution of culture is truly of national importance, and which is not, you are now taking away everyone's right. You take this away from the Serbian National Theatre, which is the oldest theatre in our country, you take it away from the Serbian mother, who enters the third century of her existence, because Mr. Petkovic shared carelessly or out of ignorance the status of an institution of culture against the national importance of those who did not deserve it. So, in fact, because you can't arrange the area for which you're competent to punish those who meet all the conditions, who do their jobs fairly, who do their jobs, and make it impossible for them to finance themselves from the Republic of Serbia's budget priority, even though I think in the DS, we think it's the highest interest of a country to take care of culture through the care of these institutions. It seems to me, but we'll talk about it in part of the session when we talk about the details that you've reduced the boards of directors to some, as I would say, simply, places for the reception and transmission of data, which may not be bad, given that you've abolished the obligation of members, half of the board members to be from the profession, probably in the desire that these boards fill some people who don't know much about the profession but are responsible for some other activities. It seems to me that all that information about the person you collect and the law really is a lot of strange provisions about phone numbers, unique citizens' home numbers, etc., is coming out of what the Personal Data Protection Act provides, but we'll talk about it all when the amendment is debated. What's important to say in this part of the debate now is that perhaps in this law more than any of the so far, the government of the Republic of Serbia shows that it does not appreciate the profession, not that it respects what comes from the profession, but rather, it despises the profession, despises people who deal with culture, punishing them at times, so from time to time they lift their heads and complain a little about your work, which pops out of your - silence there concept. The law is bad. The MPs on the board thought he was bad, people in culture think he's bad, professional associations think he's bad, and believe that what you think is good won't convince anyone he's good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49104	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Ivan Tasovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49105	I thank you for your discussion. I'll remind you that these are the same associations that criticised the proposal for law in 2009. So, simply, the dynamics of culture, the passion with which people in culture may not read some time to the end, and yet again, I looked back, there was a lot of misunderstanding. Secondly, it was not followed to what extent the law was amended during the adoption process. I disagree with you. I think this is the best possible law right now, because it's applicable, which doesn't mean it's law-making, to say now that this is a Bible that's not going to change. We live in a time that changes so quickly, that technologically changes so quickly, that it is hard to follow our knowledge, let alone legal regulations. So, I think that this law, as well as the sublegal acts, as well as the strategies, is just going to work and that's the thing that we in the Serbian Government are fully committed to, not just in the area of culture, but in all areas. On the other hand, it's very difficult for you to insult me, no matter how hard you try or try, because I'm just used to being criticized back in the days when I was the director of the Belgrade Philharmonic. I'll remind you that I, now I don't remember exactly whether it was 2005 or 2006, was kicked out of the Music Artists' Association. I think I'm the only one who's been kicked out of the Association of Music Artists because of my harmful action at the Philharmonic and at all on the music scene of Serbia, which I've accepted, of course, is the Association's decision to make, although it seems to me that further development of the Philharmonic may in some way have led to doubt about the justification of that decision. Just so no one gets me wrong, I'm not asking to go back to that association at all, because I'm not a pianist for a long time, and I haven't played a piano in a long time. The strengthening of institutions is and will be the priority of the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but not in linguistic and grammar terms, by adding different signs, national, or whatever, but essential and systematic. In doing so, I would not forget a great contribution to the assignment of cultural institutions of national importance, meaning a very significant contribution by Vojislav Brajovic, who was then Minister of Culture and his State Secretary Ivana Stefanovic, who yesterday as composer had her own authorial text in "Today", or the day before, sorry if I was wrong, where I was sincerely surprised, given that it was a composer that I highly appreciated, that she simply wrote in that text that I offended people and women. Indeed, that kind of gender insensitivity, in which you on the one hand, what, women aren't human? I mean, I really want to believe that it was one complete slip, as I want to believe it was a slip and that she hadn't studied that law enough, because I don't believe that it was this kind of emotional relationship that one law that was passed, which was written in her time, has simply shown time and practice has shown that it's necessary to change.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49106	Thank you. Comrade Jerkov, on what grounds do you want the word? (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: I would say something.) Is there anything else you'd like to say? But you can only go from the time of the parliamentary group. Oh, no? All right. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49107	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the very beginning I declare that I support the proposals we are discussing on this item of the agenda today, the motions for decisions and amendments and the addition of the laws we are now dealing with. Of course, I will give full time to this amendment and the addition of the Law, which rightly drew the most attention. Dear fellow, this is about amendments to the Law on Culture. My support for the proposal is based on a few I consider very good aspects of this proposal: one, compliance with European practice and standards. We haven't heard a single negative comment about them in today's debate, or in a broader debate these days, which I consider to be both logical and very good. Two, in order to determine the general interest in culture in a better way, on which there were no bad comments again, there were no negative conclusions. Also, it's logical that they're gone and also, it's good that they are. In this regard, but not only about this, and the issue of better regulation of the financing and co-financing of projects, once again, seems like we all understand very well, which is also logical to be both very well, as well as to regulate the working relationship on certain times of cultural workers, once again I believe the full consent of all interested actors. I also support and welcome on my part the way these proposed changes and complements regulate the issue of funding international co-operation projects. This may be where we come to the first point of thinking about it, because today it could be heard that this proposal does not promote this kind of co-operation and does not help it, it does exactly the opposite. I have to express a certain dissension. As far as this issue is concerned, it refers directly to Article 76 of the original text, in which no specific consideration has been given, treated, clarified at all, to the question of international projects and co-operation at this level, in any way. Now it's done, I mean very well, I mean precisely, I mean right. If there's any misunderstanding about how it's being promoted, how this kind of co-operation helps, I point out only one detail, there's certainly more, but I'll save our time. When it comes to participation and funds for it that are now being provided from the budget, isn't that just commendable, distinguished ladies and distinguished gentlemen? As for the issues of the National Council for Culture, and there are many very good solutions, solutions that deserve only praise and principled support of the law of all of us here. First of all, the issue of personal composition, which is now being promoted. We can't miss to notice that. We're also talking about those details that appear to be and disagree entirely. One of the grudges we've heard has been about the issue of authority and I think we're talking specifically about Article 17 of the original law here. In particular, point 4 of which the amendment is proposed and which concerns the issue of the role of this advice on the preparation of the strategy, we must not fail to notice a single very important thing here. This proposal did not remove the advice from this process. The total change refers only to whether words – they participate in the debate, now according to the new proposal – is considering and giving an opinion on the proposal. So he still plays a very important, observed role. However, we must not fail to notice the following. We have a new point 6a, which extends the powers of the National Council. Then isn't it commendable and then there's room to talk about any decomposition or degradation? I don't think so. Furthermore, today the committee in charge could also hear that the present representative of the National Council has made his own observations on the issue of financing this council in so far the existing law has not been resolved. Is this proposal just regulating the funding issue? Once again positive, once again yes. This proposal sets out the budget resources for this need. Did he perhaps point to the fact that he didn't have his own working rooms? What the ministry representatives said had, thanks to the ministry's participation. Thus, he referred to the general conditions for the work of counsel. That's right. Therefore, general conditions, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to funding this proposal provide adequate administrative technical assistance in the work of this Council. Aren't those just good suggestions? Aren't those just things for our unanimous support and praise? Once again, I think, yes, and we'll see in practice how much this kind of help will mean to the National Council. I'm confident, it'll mean a lot to him. As for the other grudges that were mentioned today in the principle debate, the most important ones are definitely two things. The first would be recognition for a top-notch contribution to national culture, a famous member of 14. We talked about him today, and I think it's important to underline a few aspects of this issue. First, one very direct answer to a certain insinuation, you will allow me the freedom to call it that, with this proposal, is it, therefore, to make changes in terms of deleting Article 14, in any way degrade the role of significant cultural workers who have so far earned the right to this kind of, say, rewards? A brief, concise answer, very direct is – of course, no. And it looks at the confirmation of this, of course, not exactly in the fact that those who have granted those rights, that right will not be compromised in any way. So they remain in force and there is no dilemma about it. It remains, too, and a fact, which I believe we all unanimously concluded. They did so precisely in this debate, but today at a hearing within the board of directors and those who gave themselves the role of spokesman for dissatisfaction in this law. They themselves said, not one, but more times, that there are problems in practice that have been reflected in the existence of a certain political coercion, pressure, call whatever you want, when determining this kind of reward, or confirming this kind of merit. That is why, you will correct me if I am wrong, I believe that at this point in practice and do not implement this mechanism in Article 14. What happens to this bill now? It's a very simple thing. To understand it only takes a little bit of goodwill and absolutely nothing more. The regulation is brought into complete synchronisation, in accordance with practice. It's just the whole story. Nothing else changes. The rights achieved remain, the recognitions earned by worthy creators, the deserved workers, the people who are recognizable absolutely stand, and we must not afford ourselves the luxury of not saying a single word, not by any chance, to cast a shadow of doubt about it and to insult anyone with any kind of rude comment, inappropriate in any way on this subject. As far as culture institutions are concerned, it's of national importance. So this question has two aspects. First it's so-called. status, and the second is the question of funding. For a bang, it may certainly be more important for these institutions to deal with this second issue, which has been regulated by the budget's priority funding so far. Is funding of proposed amendments and amendments to the law compromised? Once again, absolutely not. So, look at the correction relating to funding that so far has been the focus of funding projects by the founders' budgets now shifted to financing institutions set up by the founders. So, all of these institutions, once again, institutions that have acquired their status with great right and for good reason, will be provided so that they can function. That aspect should absolutely not be brought into any doubt at all. As for that status and the honors, I absolutely have nothing against the suggestion, the fact, anything on the subject of a particular institution standing a panel that will serve to highlight its significance. Let us remind ourselves, ladies and gentlemen, that it is not the essence of the very existence or the absence of that panel, that it does not make the official status of a large institution, but rather the process goes completely the other way. The institutions deserved to be respected, valued in society, and that is why certain honors follow. It's like that, and it won't be a threat, and it's not worth it in any way. I think we're dealing with noise here too. As for the comments on other issues, whether or not any degradation of the boards of directors is being carried out, the election issues of directors, once again, do not. I'd like to invite everyone to notice that these questions are only settled more precisely. Competitions continue to exist, the roles of the boards of directors remain unchanged and proposals are further submitted by the Management Board to the founder, the procedures are more precise, more concrete and clear. What's wrong with that? As far as strategy issues are concerned before or after the law, we all agree, it is good that we have it and it will be very good when this strategy is adopted one day. Just any comment on the topic – why not now? You could, to be honest, and with your hand on your heart, say, put someone outside this room, because those who are asking these questions today have been able to make their own contribution and make this strategy complete. Why didn't we? It's up to us to discuss maybe internally, so that, God of health, as we say, and bring it together, but to be concrete and to the very end, it's serious. That's the kind of transfer we don't have the right to direct each other here. As for other comments, questions, ambiguities, possible confusion in the text, questions of literacy, you know that there are no problems. We've always been open to any good proposal that will contribute to that. Centralisation of decision-making, once again, without any further explanation of what is supposed to mean, as well as market action. I would remind you that in this text of the law, the word "market, market" or anything on this subject is mentioned in just one place. It would continue to be mentioned after these changes and additions in the same way that it was in the original law. That article five of this proposal has absolutely nothing to do with it. I believe it's an accidental lapus during today's debate. Have any associations supported or not supported this proposal? I appreciate that on the committee, held this morning, a representative of an association said there was a adoption of a proposal submitted by the association to a significant extent by the ministry. That association made proposals along with another, two, three, four... So, a total of five associations and an evaluation – there was a significant adoption. I think this is an affirmative approach. It's not a dispute. If there are more amendments that are highlighted as the interest of this association or these associations, it's also one of the things that we'll all be very happy to discuss together these days. This is an affirmative approach, as well as a finding of the same people that the ministry successfully separated the specificities of artists and the specificities of experts, which was also their proposal and which was also done very well. At the very end, a little bit put into the other plan is the question of defining the concepts of cultural activities, areas, as well as the principles of cultural development, which I find very good and very important. It is important for a society, ladies and gentlemen, to deal with these issues by regulating them, and by giving them certain positions of importance, by specific weight and by expanding them in accordance with time and their needs. It is important that one society deals with these issues equally with the importance of culture itself. The culture in which, in an unbreakable relationship, first of all, its name, in an eternal braid, Latin expressions for discipline of cultivation and creation and cults in the wider, can be said, religious sense, therefore, food for both the body and the soul. The culture, which therefore represents a measure of what will define both ethical and aesthetic in a society, which will define its light-rays, which will ultimately define both its spiritual and artistic justices and further achievements. A word of culture that, as a concept, as a discipline defines everything that makes us better people. We usually isolate it, we usually sort of separate it from that materially, and what we would say is coloquial, which makes everyday life and a better life, but the truth is different. The truth is, there's a strong organic bond, an unbreakable relationship. Unfortunately, we don't always see her and we don't all see her, but she exists. This relationship may be most clearly seen in those words of the patriarch Paul – why is culture as something that makes us better so important? Because we're gonna get better, it reminds us of those words, when we're better. Thanks to culture, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to her decent treatment, among other things, and to the laws that show how a society treats her. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49108	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. He's not here. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49109	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I hope that I will not be resented here if I make a welcome welcome to Minister Tasovac, who has not been here in our National Assembly for a long time. I'd like to remind all of us that we've been here discussing a cab for the public service, we've had a few sessions of the Committee on Culture and Information. I've always been prepared for one question of our guests from the executive office, always going to all these sessions, at all these meetings, waiting, the minister was not there, but here's an opportunity for respected gentlemen to ask at one session of the National Assembly and the Minister, who came to promote a law called the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Culture, Honored Gentlemen. I also read the stenogram. Minister Tasovac said today – culture is the mirror of every society, so he added - that's why editing and supporting the culture sector must be an integral part of every responsible policy, and then Mr Orlic now added – that's why culture should also have a dignified treatment. Gentlemen, Minister Tasovac, whether 0.6% of the culture budget is the treatment that should have culture, so that in this way we have some attitude and attitude towards culture, gentlemen. Minister Tasovac, who is the European government, do you know that, allocates less funds to culture than the Government, whose member you are? Can you say the name of a European government that did it? You say -- culture is a mirror of every society, so this 0.6% in my court, Minister Tasovac, is a relationship to which the government treats culture, and then I have two notes, Mr Tasovac, which are specifically related to the content of this law. Dear gentlemen, by voting for this bill, we will create a conflict of regulations in the area of culture. Minister Tasovac, here's to prove it, so let me hear the counter argument. The provision of a new Article 55b of the Law lays down the competences of representative associations to carry out research, protection, use, collection of movable and immovable cultural heritage. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, not only will the Proposer, in this case Minister Tasovac, not provide preconditions for their legal work, but the possible adoption of such a solution will be in conflict with the Law on Cultural Goods, gentlemen. Well, I guess the idea here, even when the bill comes to the Assembly, is that we have the consistency of the contents of different legislative projects. I therefore support the action of the Committee on Culture and Information, whose session this morning was proposed not to accept this bill. Mr. Tasovac, do you agree that you can have a conflict between the two laws on the assumption that we accept this law, about the same thing that we have different solutions? Or, gentlemen, the bill introduces ourselves, in our understanding, unfounded and unacceptable, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, distinguished guests from the Ministry, over-indulgence of cultural resistors. This ferocity is not only seen in the context of this bill, but in the accession of Minister Tasovac in general. Do you know how many bill proposals are being made? We have this Law on Culture, we have a bill on cultural heritage, immovable cultural goods, museums, archives, libraries, cinema, respected gentlemen, whatever word we have for culture Minister Tasovac is preparing some new law. Minister Tasovac, in modern European democracies, it's called overtiredness in culture. Instead, Minister, here I am now telling you that we are preparing a draft law on a trustee for culture. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49110	Mr. Pavicevic, please talk about amendments to the Law on Culture. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the scene: I am completely in matter. I read this from letter to letter, the explanation completely. There's no dilemma. There is no dilemma, so I'm surprised why you don't talk about what you read. Ask for a word again.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49111	Here's Mr. Arsic to hear, have you ruled me out, Mr. Arsic? So did you, like Mr. Becic, Mr. Arsic, say one commendation this morning, that you do not repeat such practice and you are now repeating bad practice. But, well, maybe it was some kind of slip. As much time as I have left, now I'm not looking.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49112	A little over half a minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49113	Half a minute. Okay. Also, Minister Tasovac, what we consider to be rather than a number of laws on which he is working and perseverance in the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Culture, we are all in line with the recent amendments of European standards on cultural goods. When you speak here honored gentlemen, as Mr. Orlic did, about the National Council, so wait gentlemen, did we have here the burial... at the White Palanca. So did anyone on behalf of this National Council come forward on behalf of this cultural good, esteemed gentlemen...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49114	Time fellow Pavicevic...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49115	Please, let us speak here properly, precisely and precisely. Mr. Tasovac, one dialogue to open up here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49116	The word is made by Minister Tasovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49117	I thank you for the discussion and for saying Milka Babovic "at the excellent" artistic impression that you left on me, although I can hardly really understand what was the point of your exposure here, except to point to an insaneness, which is absolutely a criticism that does not stand. What just represents European practice is that the roof law opens up opportunities for the adoption of laws from individual areas of culture. And we're in Article 1 and underlining it, so individual areas of culture will be regulated by a special law. As for your comment that you wished for me – I love you too.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49118	The word is by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49119	Dear colleagues and colleagues, at the very beginning, I would like to refer to the fact that Serbia is said to be the country most likely in Europe with the smallest amount that has been set for culture in our budget. I couldn't deny it, and most likely, that's the case, but those who say that forget that no country in Europe, and I don't believe in the world, had any sign of that happiness that there are such governments that brought Serbia almost to the brink of ambition, or bankruptcy. So it is not possible for Serbia to allocate greater resources to culture and education and health and all other actions, but if we are to be honest, what is culture? Culture is a picture of every country and every individual or, as the minister and colleague said, it is a mirror in which each of us can look and see his faults and his own good side. So some might in that mirror, or in that cultural mile, be identified as destroyers, if the arsonists of this building here, as the people who destroyed our good and our culture. Culture is something that we all wear from home, which we carry from our earliest youth, or childhood. It is something that we have brought from the house, or it is a fine custom to turn to neighbors or passengers on purpose and to call it God’s help or a good day. It is one custom that I have met here in the congregation and noticed, unlike many other places, that every time I pass by you says good day or greets you in some other way. It is, unfortunately, in Serbia and among our people a long time ago a practice that has died. Culture is the respect of our letter and language, and we must defend that letter and language through culture. Today, Matija Beckovic sent an open letter addressing all Serbian citizens. I suppose in one way that is kind of funny, and unfortunately sad, he suggested using only two words. I can't get them here. I could get one, but the other wouldn't, and that wouldn't be complete. I suppose you'll all see it in both the means of information and the various networks. By destroying our culture, we slowly began to destroy both language and our letter. Culture is also the respect of our ancestors who have entrusted us with their deeds. It is both a message and an example of generations to imitate their ancestors and to be better than them, if God will. Once, I remember, when I was a primary school student, and today I think it was a time when we were taught too early what culture was and perhaps in the wrong way, it was kind of incomprehensible for us. According to us, then the culture was to go to the opera, listen to the Philharmonic, listen to Bah, Beethoven, Mozart, Brams, I don't know who else to listen to jazz. Maybe that was inconceivable for our age. It was supposed to take years to realize that it was one part of culture and that it was one very beautiful part of culture. But culture is just like that common folk music. It's a flute whistle that a chap plays while he's guarding his flock. That's all that came out of the people, in every part of our end and on every level. These are the works of our writers, our poets. These are works by Vuk Karadzic, Đura Jaksic. These are also the evenings of my Montenegrins who are known as the nemares who built this country, who have built various buildings across Europe, thus putting their name into Serbia's culture and celebrating all over Europe and the world. These are also the Gročan celebrations that take place every summer in Grocko, where proud hosts, mostly fruit producers, show everything they have produced and what they can provide to their guests. It's also a fair during St. Elijah's in Miriev, where me and my colleague live. It's also beautiful celebrations in the Stapar, where we have a view of horses and fijar, when hundreds of horses and fijars defil and with pride people can enjoy this form of culture. That's what cares about our origins. It's also the care of the past and the will to never forget it. As I understand it, the group of enthusiasts has prepared a project that I suppose is now already in the competition procedure, where in 40 shows will show everything about Serbia's historic development, or to show all of Germany. I think that those in charge of funding this project will have enough understanding to help this project, so that we can get to know our past better, get to know our ancestors and learn how and how they fought to enjoy what we enjoy today. A lot of things we didn't know about our past so far can be learned through such series, or shows. Recently in "The Witness" in Zarko's lodge, our passionate artist Oliver Mandic, through the verses of Duško Trifunović, said something that reminded me of how we view culture and how we treat culture. These verses of Duško Trifunović read: “Thank you for coming, stay a little longer, just to remember why I called you. “ I suppose you have understood our relationship to culture. We all praise the culture and the legislators of culture and the need for it. We're lucky to have her, or, as the poet says, what came over, we just can't remember why we called her, that's all. Why we need her. Is that just the minister, one minister, one government and the ruling majority? No, it's the concern of all of us and we all have to be wise enough to realize that culture is what the entire being of Serbia, all of Serbia's inhabitants, all past and future generations. To bring culture back to life and bring it to the level it deserves, we must all work together and all together to make an effort for culture to be in the place it deserves. Is it easy for people who are in culture? Well, it isn't, but there are few people in Serbia who find it easy. Times are hard. We've come to a situation where there wasn't enough money for any area. I believe that through this law, in times that come and culture will take the place it deserves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49120	Thank you. Now I'm setting a five-minute break. We continue work at 19 hours and 30 minutes. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, continued to work. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49122	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a law which, I think, is too strongly condemned by individual colleagues, primarily by the opposition, because it continues that practice and that concept that was initiated by the 2009 Culture Act, which corrects those mistakes observed in that law in the previous period and there is no serious reason to judge this law so strongly because it brings, I would say, a lot of new good institutes and explains a lot of things that have not been properly regulated in the previous law. So these are the changes and additions of only one law that has done a great number and a lot of questions in culture itself, in the area of culture. I think we need to have a lot of understanding when it comes to the delicate position that culture is in today. A delicate position, in the sense that we are, after all, a society that is quite economically devastated, a society that cannot single out large resources in many areas and also in the area of culture, which is primarily in the process of serious reforms and public financing and that, given these priorities that our society has, we must have one realistic approach when it comes to culture itself and the opportunities that culture can have in the fields of culture and measures that we can take. So, everything this law has done at this point seems to me that primarily comes down to what is reality, means that we preserve what has already been achieved in the field of culture, which is not negligible, that we preserve the institutions that we already have in the field of culture, which are not negligible at all, and that we primarily promote the quality and work of these institutions, as well as the content and quality of the contents that citizens offer to those institutions. The law, in itself, and what is good, introduces priorities and it stems from what I said, that our opportunities are limited and that is very good, and in any case it is to praise, more clearly defines not only choice, but also responsibility and management staff, director of boards, supervisory boards, which is very positive and brings one quality when it comes to managing staff. Then, what was a failure and what showed in some way a certain misunderstanding of a wider community, it is international co-operation. This law regulates it, and it is of great importance not only to the institutions of culture, I would say, for the whole state of Serbia, it accurately regulates the obligations of the Republic, which has an autonomous province, which has a local self-government, when it comes to financing culture and defines a series of institutes such as representative trade unions, independent artists, I believe in a very, very good way. So the law is essentially very problematic. We need to be aware that we are a small country, a culture that is exposed to global pressures, a market economy that is being introduced today in Serbia, and that in these relations where all institutions and all budget users are significantly changed, you cannot, within a short period of time, introduce the institutions of culture into a more self-financed situation, i.e. that the state must take care of the institutions of culture and allow, in some foreseeable period, that through greater financial separations and the development of culture itself and one cultural policy that reflects all these changes that are currently taking place in society and that we define the area of culture and define in a better way, the social role that culture should play in our society. I think it's something that's waiting for us in some future period, that the ministry, of course, and the government, is very important and influential and complete social elite of every citizen, that from the fact that culture is generally well-recognizable, and the need for factic culture to have a critical relationship, I would say, according to all those social phenomena and new social phenomena that appear in these social relationships that change every day in our country. So the importance of culture is remarkable. Culture can't possibly be a expense. Culture must be seen as an investment. It is necessary to define and understand what is most important – that today there is no rich society that has no developed culture. The societies we look up to have an extremely developed culture. Therefore, it is our obligation, in some future period, to improve our culture through an evolutionary process, to make it possible to be at least approximately or at a similar level as developed countries, because investment in culture will mean the very progress of our economy in some future period. Therefore, there will be opportunities for the amendments it has to discuss a lot, but I am quite sure that even after that discussion in particular, we will have an even better law and that this law will fully satisfy the need for the current moment, when it comes to culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49123	Thank you. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49124	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, we all know that culture is the identity of one people and without culture we don't even exist. If we don't protect our cultural heritage, if we don't preserve our achievements and achievements, we're going to lag behind as a society, we're going to gnaw. Not only will we drown in the ham and the spine, we will drown in it. I know that, despite everything, you understand very well, although somehow it seems to me that when you sat in a chair in this council of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, you kind of became immune to the spine and ham. We must not allow entertainment to be in front of every creative piece and we must not allow the system of values, Mr. Tasovac, in Serbia to determine the passionate content. Now it's like that and you as a minister, I think you're very aware of that. As a culture and information minister, you have the opportunity to watch every day the headlines of all the media in Serbia. What's on the front pages today, besides lies, contempt and hatred, ham and spine? Have you had a chance to view or read the article or text about a theatre performance on the front page? Or, for example, Vlada Velichkovic, on some front page? If we want to be a serious and decent society, then we need to subsidise the institutions of culture of national importance, and when it comes to museums, theatres, libraries, literary awards and various cultural projects of national importance. Today, Serbian citizens feel misery and humiliation in every sense. Among other things, the lack of culture. The mistake was to abolish national pensions, for the simple reason that we're trying to undo something that artists have been creating for decades. I'm not sure how and in what way and how did you communicate well, among other things, and with them, as bearers of these confessions? Did you explain to them why this was done and that it wasn't what it said in the light of your bill? And finally, more importantly, did you tell them as Serbian Culture Minister – thank you for the contribution they have made to our people for decades? Of course it is strictly necessary to set criteria for this, there is absolutely no choir. And of course we should stick to the agreed and regulated law. But also, in one other thing, I disagree with you -- I think every work in culture is measurable. And I am absolutely confident and convinced and convinced, for the simple reason that it is produced in the form of books, films, various works of art, theoretical texts, theatre performances and in every other way. That's why I think it's very important, because that's how we communicate with the world. That way we may change ourselves and make ourselves better than we are. Gifted people always help a serious and responsible society. It seems to me that Serbia has done a lot in the past few years to send talented and gifted people forever beyond the borders of this country. I don't think that's supposed to be the case. And just as many countries in the environment have arranged their cultural heritage and shown it to their own but also everything, I think that we too need to do a lot more, and you as minister have a huge task to fight to finally bring together every museum institution in the country, not just the National Theatre, not just museums, the Museum of Contemporary Art, not just the City Museum, but local museums. We today have no opportunity to present to the world our cultural heritage, which was defeated in the 21st century. What I am asking you, as well as my colleague, Mrs Vesna Marjanović – or withdraw this law that we consider very bad, or drastically amend it, so that maybe we can close our eyes and vote for it. Otherwise, I don't believe this law will bring any good to our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49125	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Ivan Tasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49126	I thank you for the highly constructive debate, however, I still have to look back on this when they say that cultural evaluation is possible. You know, it's the subject of a debate that's been going on for centuries, in which way it's possible to evaluate. Let me quote Dragutin Gostuška, or paraphrasing from the book Art in the lack of evidence, about the fact that there is no objective criticism, because it does not need to be objective, it is an extremely subjective attitude of an individual. So it is impossible to establish these general criteria, these are individual opinions and individual criteria. That's the part where the two of us disagree. However, what seems to me to be the most positive message of today's debate in the Assembly is that absolutely everything recognises the importance of culture and the importance of investment in culture, in the same way the Serbian government recognizes it. So it just seems to me that there's an absolute consensus on both the importance and importance of disseminating into culture, but not just from state funds, but from private funds, from foundations, the possibility of applying to international funds. It seems to me that we have much better days coming in financial terms. There's one more thing, it also showed practice, and it's that budgets, it's seen through movies and through many other works and through theatre shows are not always crucial to the quality of the piece itself. I would briefly look back, and I agree with you that we should not just focus on these most significant capital projects, and just for your information, I would simply share with you the information that, for the mandate of this government, the works at the Wolf and Dosite Museum have been completed. The Museum of Science and Technology, a restoration of the facade, adaptation and formation of a new gallery for occasional thematic exhibitions and multi-purpose halls, adaptation and equipment of official rooms. The Matica Srpske Gallery in Novi Sad, works on the reconstruction of the Suture premises, the introduction of a fire protection system, have been completed. The budget has allocated funds for the completion of the façade, which will completely complete the reconstruction. The Museum of History of Yugoslavia completed works on the reconstruction of thermotechnical installations and the adaptation of the Old Museum facility, providing all the conditions for the exhibition of the Russian avant-garde, which had about 10,000 visitors for the first month. The National Museum in Zrenjanin finishes the work on adaptation and equipment of an occasional exhibition hall. I'm not going to read any further, just because this list is really big. So it is impossible to make as much visible success overnight as I would have wanted and as much as the Serbian government would have wanted. But simply by working in this way, planically and in stages, step by step, we simply create all the preconditions that we can best present what is both our cultural heritage and what is our contemporary art, and not only in the country but also in the world and using entirely new ways of presentation, new technologies. I don't know if you've visited the Michaela Pupin exhibition at the Museum of History, and also a new set-up at the Museum of Sapac, where new technologies are being used. I'm sorry that many of these good things, and I agree with you, are not well-recognized through our media, it's just the thing that we should all be working on together, so the good news that it really has becomes visible to a far greater extent.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49127	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49128	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Arsic, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, the Honorable Mr Zoran Babić, the Honorable People's MPs, I am speaking to Mr Babiæ tonight and to you, because you are the only one of the 12 members of Parliament tonight in this high building. That's what Mr. Babic says about you, about your relationship to work, about the relationship between you and SNS to Serbian citizens. Mr. Minister, and Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly, and this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Culture has its foothold in the exposé of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Aleksandr Vukikojeg, presented to the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on 27 April 2014. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament and, let's not forget, the exposés of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Mr. Alexander Vukic is the most comprehensive, most precise, most concrete, 52 densely typed sides and the best of all 72, the previous exposé of the Serbian Prime Minister from the time of the first Prime Minister of Modern Serbia, Prote Mateja Nenadovic, to this day. Respected citizens of Serbia and respected MPs, just the exposés of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Aleksandr Vukic, and his realization are the basic precondition for stopping the sunfires of the Republic of Serbia, into which we were brought by the party of the former regime. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, not a single prime minister in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has spoken about the plans of his cabinet in culture other than Alexander Vukic. Alexander Vukic devoted three pages of text to culture in his exposé. On page 39 of the aforementioned exhibition, Serbian Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic, among other things, said about culture, quote: "Before we achieve strategic cultural goals, I want to tell you that we are going to achieve a seemingly small goal, but symbolically important to our culture. I promise that we will restore the National Museum in the Square of the Republic, which, to the shame of all of us, is being closed for almost a decade," the quote concluded. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, respected citizens of Belgrade, no more skeletons on the National Museum building. The papers are on the outside, as you can see done. Now they're working on the inside, and the museum will be open, the works are running their course. The National Museum will also open to the satisfaction of those wonderful workers employed in it, as well as citizens of Belgrade and the Republic of Serbia. This is how the Government of the Republic of Serbia, led by Alexander Vukic, does so under the system of "agreedly - accomplished". That's how it's gonna be tomorrow after these elections. The former regime has also closed the National Library of Serbia, and today you are criticised, Mr. Minister, without arguments. How, gentlemen, from the former regime, you'll explain the fact that you've renovated the National Library of Serbia building for four years, and it could all have been over in eight months. It is even more tragic that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia as users of the National Library of Serbia were denied during that time to use books and other library buildings. The only thing that worked for that time for four years was the Open Society Office, which was opened by the former director of the National Library of the former regime of Serbia. During your government, gentlemen from the former regime, from the National Library of Serbia, and you are saying tonight that culture is part of our identity, curtains dominated by four Cyrillic letters, made by letters from Miroslav's Gospel, and made by our famous artist, Desa Tosic Djurovic. During your government's former regime from the National Library of Serbia, a window was removed with the remains of books from the National Library of Serbia from Kosancic's wedding, which on 6 April 1941 set the bombs on fire by German planes, and you criticise today's minister. During your government, gentlemen of the former regime, from the National Library of Serbia, from the most visible space and most striking place in the National Library of Serbia, it was moved to the site of the sculpture "The Tree of Life", the work of the world-renowned viara naivnik, Bogdan Zivkovic, where Serbian people with paws were made in the tree, recognizable symbols of Serbian history and mythology. During the former regime's party, about 15,000 books from the National Library of Serbia have been thrown into the trash because of the god's wrong writing. Some of these editions belonged to the Dvora Library, so Serbia's cultural heritage from the time of Obrenovic and Karadzic. It's a little "bookocid" for me. This bill, Mr. Minister, will improve the entire culture system in the Republic of Serbia. For the first time, the principles of cultural development are clearly defined and priorities are identified in cultural policy-making. That's not what the opposition gentlemen said today, I don't know why, they won't say it. As the former regime led cultural policy, Bojan Pajtic, who was best shown for the Heterland Castle, otherwise under culture protection, singled out 156 million dinars, money spent, but no money anywhere. The respected citizens of Vojvodina, following these elections in the spring and victory of the SNS in Vojvodina, will also open the Hetherland Castle, but Pajtic must go into political past. All that was not done in culture in 10 years during the rule of the former regime party, today you are transferring to Mr. Minister and this Ministry, and it will be done during this ministry and this government, the building of the Museum of Contemporary Art will be built, although the former government could not have been built in six or seven years, and during that time the doors were closed to visitors. Likewise, this bill defines more precisely the general interest in culture both in termsologically and in essence. It's a great thing, Mr. Minister, that this bill abolishs recognitions for the highest reach in national culture, so to speak. National pensions. That is 95% of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia today, not because, Mr. Minister, there should be no such rewards, but because of what was happening in connection with the award. National pensions in practice for a top-notch contribution to culture have not shown the effects expected under the applicable law. If you knew, the citizens of Serbia, who received national pensions in Serbia, and most of you know, the pain would have caught you, respected citizens. If they had stayed in power, even prisoners with the longest internship would have been proposed for national pensions. Imagine, one Sladjana Milosevic received a pension, and one Vladeta Jerotic did not, and one of the deceased, now, Dejan Medakovic did not. This proposal will allow for an increase in the efficiency of the work of the National Council for Culture. They will be represented evenly, as you, Mr. Minister, said in the opening part, all cultural activities in his work, which has not been the case so far. The law will more precisely and clearly define public competition procedures for the selection of cultural institution directors. You are here today, to put it this way, to criticise these members of the law, precisely because some, or parties of the former regime, were able to propose to the founder only one to give consent to guaranteeing party membership, exclusively party membership. Now it's the other way around. Now all candidates with an explanation, with a professional background, with interviews go to the founder for insight and then to decide. Let me finally say something to the remarks, to your criticism, to the insidious ones, which today were, not only inappropriate, but they were flat-out, unfounded and untrue. It wasn't you, Mr. Tasovac, but the former culture minister, the former regime in 2011, who illegally spent 15 million dinars solely on travel and gifts, the DRI report. Speaking of the DRI report, I am pleased, Mr Minister, in particular, and all the members of the SNS, which was the report during your 2014 ministry, the DRI report was unobstructed. It wasn't you, Mr. Tasovac, but a former former minister of the regime, who bought 2,616 books from the publishing house "The pillars of culture", owned by the former regime's former minister, the DRI report. It wasn't you, Mr. Tasovac, but the former minister of culture of the former regime, and was later, unfortunately, the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, who paid for the pictures, for the UN gifts illegally, nothing less than 15 million dinars, and had to have the approval, the DRI report. It wasn't you, Mr. Minister Tasovac, who burned this great cultural building, it was you who criticized you today. And finally, during the former regime's minister, a director of a cultural and scientific institution alienated a number of funding, just these days he was sentenced to two-and-a-half years in prison and 50 million dinars to return. I hope this will not be the only case, that all those who have drawn into the pocket of Serbian citizens, that the process will eventually end properly. In the end, all in all, this is a very good law, a very transparent public debate has been held, although the criticisms today do not stand. There was even public listening in this high building. They were interested, and they gave everyone an opinion, those to whom it was concerned. That is why I call on all the MPs to vote for this law, and particularly I call on you from the opposition benches, there are only two of you, unfortunately, to vote for this law, because at least a little, even so, you will show your commitment to modernising Serbia, and also to modernising the cultural policy for which the Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic and the entire Government of the Republic of Serbia, the largest number of MPs in this high house and the largest number of citizens, I would say, the Plebiscitarian Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49129	Thank you. National MP Janko Veselinovic is not here. The word has been made by the MP, Jovana Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49130	Thank you. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, Your Honor, I will address you, given that we have not had the opportunity to hear from you, you have not attended the Committee's session. I hope that you have also read these proposals for decisions that are within this item of the agenda, not just the Culture Act, so you will be able to help us, since there was no oral explanation about this. One of these proposals for decisions is very important for Kragujevac, which is a proposal for a decision to identify the spatial cultural historical continent of the Military and Technical Institute complex in Kragujevac for an immovable cultural good of exceptional importance. The categorization itself and the idea itself are not at all controversial. However, what may be controversial is the realization of all this. We couldn't hear it from your explanation, because there was no explanation. We wouldn't want all this to be just a dead letter on paper. We wouldn't want it to be just a model, like Mercedes, or maybe Berograda on Water. The few questions I would ask you, given that there is little time left for the group, are there any concrete projects related to conservation works in the territory of the Military Technical Institute and what facilities are covered by the project, if there is a project? What will be the intention? Will the word "expert" be respected? Not only when it comes to this, I'm skeptical, because when this Culture Act is at stake, we see that they're organized listening, but there's no word of experts. Will the word "experts" be respected in the eventual execution of conservation works on buildings located within this Military and Technical Institute? We don't want to get into a situation where this can only be used for pre-election campaigns, so eventually there's nothing weeds, or maybe some businessman gets permission to build something on the territory of the Military Technical Service without respecting the word of an expert, so someone builds that casino, and the military-technical institute has great significance...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49131	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49132	Let me finish my sentence... It has great importance and the entire site has been built on asphalt and the buildings have been built since the 19th and 20th centuries. You yourself said that it is important for the historical, cultural and social development of the people and national history, so I ask you not to disturb it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49133	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49134	Of course it will be respected and the word of the profession. After all, the moment you declare something a real cultural good of exceptional importance, it also defines very clearly how this entire complex will be treated. The spacious cultural historical continent of the complex of the Kragujevac Military and Technical Institute is the oldest preserved urban continent of the economic and industrial type in Serbia and I think it is very important that we declare it a cultural good. However, here we have touched on another very important issue, which is actually that we have now entered into a re-examination of everything that has been declared a cultural good so far. We started erasing from the cultural goods register of those buildings that no longer exist, because believe it or not, there is a paradox to be run as cultural good, and let's just say that this building hasn't existed for 10 or more years. What's certainly also important, which is that they are in the preparation of laws in the field of protection. That is why it is also important for this roof law, which gives us the basis to pass all these individual laws, and a concrete answer to your question – yes, everything will be done according to the highest standards and professions and the highest European standards.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49135	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dusica Stojkovic. The remaining time is 124 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49136	I would first like to thank Mr. Minister for the clarifications and answers I have received on the questions I have asked you in my previous presentation. I would especially like to inform the citizens of Serbia that I am particularly concerned by the appearance of the so-called ". false wooden lawyers, false protectors and self-care professionals, who, as I hear last night, got a "scar" for life in the media field, so we could assign them both achievements and recognitions for life's work and in the field of culture, of course, in a peorative and negative context. What is happening now is the fact that these representatives, these concubines, use exclusively for pre-election purposes and for pre-election campaigns, which is in progress, associations and cultural creators for their own pre-election purposes. Dear fellow MPs, today in the debate, we have had many occasions to hear who cheered and clothed us with the cultural scene of Belgrade and Serbia, to talk again about the names whose personnel were on individual institutions of culture, whose party personnel were responsible after the revolution that hit us on October 5th and who showed what they can and know in leading the institutions of cultures in Serbia, both the institutions of culture in Serbia at local levels, and in cities across Serbia, in the capital of Belgrade, and in institutions whose founder is the Republic. As far as granting national recognitions, of course we suspected, as citizens, of the whole process of granting these confessions. Let's go back to the '90s for a little while. As a student of the Faculty of Political Sciences, I had the opportunity to listen to individual staff who after 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012 received recognitions and thus were rewarded through certain appointments, through receiving different recognitions, as prizes for participation in the revolution. It was already clear to me on 6 October that after JUL, whom we, as young energy students in Belgrade and across Serbia, had just fought, we had a phenomenon that after JUL we had actually had a new JUL, which came and reigned as certain feuds to the institutions of culture in Serbia. You can't fool Serbian citizens anymore. The phenomenon that you did after the end of the 1990s will no longer happen again, as Serbian citizens no longer believe you, no matter what we say in the course of an election campaign that lasts, in the upcoming 2016 elections. For the sake of the general public, I want to inform you about the situation that happened today. We had a Committee on Culture on which a certain decision was made, but the great thing that happened today was that during today's debate some MPs and certain parliamentary groups supported the amendments and additions of the Culture Act, which we are discussing today. So Parliament groups supported the adoption of amendments and additions to the Law on Culture. In the end, I would like to take the opportunity to invite all my fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament to support in our vote the Law on Culture in the day of voting, but also today a less represented law on the mandatory copy of the publication on the agenda. Mr. Tasovac, I urge you to consider with attention all amendments submitted to protect culture in Serbia in the best way possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49137	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Mirjana Andric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49138	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow ministers, dear fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, today we are discussing a very important bill of law in this honored home, which is the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Culture. Culture is one of the most important systems in the development of every society. It is known from system theory that each large system and complex system tends to entropy, or decay. In order for the system to not fall apart, it is necessary to ensure its regulation. So in order for a nation's culture to survive, it has to be regulated by laws. The laws should be timely, quality, enforceable and with a high degree of control of their enforceability. All the nations who didn't realize it in time lost their cultural identity. So from the face of the earth, the Mycene, Semitic, Asumitic, Tripoli, and many other cultures that once were the cradles of our civilization disappeared. The first law on culture, which systematically regulated the basics on which our culture rests, was adopted in 2009 and began to be implemented in March 2010. No matter what, it is necessary to show gratitude to both the then government and the then Minister of Culture for taking such a difficult job and establishing the basic settings that we are today adapting to the time in which we live. The draft law by the Department of Culture and Information Working Group went through all the necessary findings, from the National Council for Culture, to a public debate held in Belgrade, Nis, Novi Sad, public hearing in the National Assembly, to the European Commission, which had almost no objections to the bill. Many proposals from these public hearings and consultations with people in the field of culture have been incorporated into the draft law, which concludes that this law is the product of a broad consensus of all interested cultural entities. The amendments to the Culture Act, which we are discussing today, aim to establish the principles of cultural development, to determine the types and ways of performing cultural activities, to determine the rights, obligations and responsibilities of our Republic, AP, the City of Belgrade and local self-government, define the conditions for the operation of all cultural entities. When it comes to cultural activities, it should be pointed out that this bill extends their number, so an area of folk play, ballet and audio-visual action has been introduced. "The rose is provided by gobber," says the People's Proverbs, and we can only provide ourselves as much as the budget allows, and believe me, she loved them that our separations for culture are at the level of one Great Britain, France, Spain, Germany, but this is not possible at the moment. However, our government has defined the maximum resources that can be allocated to culture, given our economic situation, as well as the percentage of our economy's growth in the coming period. Large public dust, especially cultural, has risen due to the erasure of Article 14. The cultural law relating to recognitions for a top-notch contribution to culture as a lifelong monthly monetary income to an artist, i.e. an expert in culture, that is, so-called "Courture" National pensions. Now this recognition, 45,000 dinars on a regular pension, gets 373 artists, and for that, close to two million euros is allocated from our Republic's budget. At a time when our government tightens its belt, when wages and pensions are reduced, the abolition of national pensions is completely justified in my opinion. In addition to the economic factor, it is also necessary to mention the criteria for the assignments of this recognition which were not clearly defined by the law, because how can it be compared to the work of an actor with the work of painters or archivists, as you said well, Mr. Minister. Every year since this recognition was introduced, and it was introduced in 2008 when the culture minister was Mr. Voja Brajovic, the committee for the award of recognition suffered pressures from various stakeholders to push its candidates to grant national pensions, so many commission members had to resign. I think it's too much to talk about the reasons why it is necessary to keep the national pensions, that's why we've talked about it enough, and we'll talk about it when we talk about the amendments. Another one of the institutes introduced for the first time in our cultural miles should be mentioned, also in this 2009 law. It's the National Cultural Council. His role was advisory, and he was tasked with helping state authorities involved in culture to make faster and better-quality decisions to function culture in all its segments. The existing composition and organisation of the National Council for Culture has proved to be dysfunctional, and some newspapers have been introduced through this bill. The Council has 19 members who are elected for a period of five years from the ranks of prominent and affirmative artists and cultural experts, but one of the members of the council is chosen for cultural heritage as a novelty. The members of the council shall be entitled to compensation for their work, which has not been the case so far, at the height established by the National Assembly on a proposal from the competent committee. The funds are provided from the Republic of Serbia's budget. What we get by this law, as a no doubt quality, is the choice of the director of cultural institutions. Directors of an institution founded by the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province, a unit of local self-government are named on the basis of a previous public competition for a period of four years and may be re-appointed. The public competition shall be held and implemented by the Management Board of the Institute 60 days before the term of office of the Director. The list of candidates' proposals, as well as the minutes of talks with candidates, provides the board with the founder, and the founder appoints a director from a list containing several proposals. The candidates for director must have a higher education and at least five years of work experience in the profession. It is now becoming much more transparent, and candidates will also have the right to gain insight into competitive documentation as well as the right to appeal to the founder of decisions taken by the board of directors. The 2009 Culture Act introduced another institute, the Institute of Culture of national importance. The introduction of this institute created many problems because, as it turns out, a large number of cultural institutions wanted to acquire this status even though it does not have criteria for that status. The desire of such a number of cultural institutions to obtain the status of cultural institutions of national importance stems from the fact that they are primarily financed from the budget. Due to numerous abuses in practice, this member of the law is abolished, and hence further discreditation of this institute, as well as an institution of culture that has rightly acquired this status. My sincerest thanks also for how to finance or co-finance the project in culture and art and to raise efficiency in spending budgets, as well as for financing international co-operation in these areas. In one word, this is a very good proposal for a law whose adoption, I am sure, will significantly improve the overall system of culture in Serbia, will increase transparency in the work of all bodies, i.e. the institution of culture, and their work will be improved, and all the shortcomings observed in the past practice from 2009 to today will be eliminated. That's why in the voting day, I'm going to give my sincere support, like everyone in the SNS for the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49139	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Nebojsa Tatomir, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49140	Dear Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, today we are facing amendments to the Law on Culture, which has been in force since 2009, and someone not sent would say this is just a hairstyle of the old law. However, considering all their changes and additions, their scope and essence, we can freely say that this is about a reform law that changes a lot of bad things and creates good grounds for the maximum application of these solutions in practice, which was also a major problem of the current law. This is a roof law and its adoption will create conditions for the adoption of a state strategy in culture, which Serbia definitely lacked for a long time. It should be said immediately that the law also passed the procedure after several public debates and round tables, that even the Committee on Culture organised a public hearing at the Small Hall of the Serbian Parliament which was very visited and that in the end the commission had no objections to these amendments and additions to the Law on Culture. For the first time, this law defines cultural areas in the right way, i.e. these changes and additions are regulated in a much better way by our cultural system and that the possibility of a more equal and fairer treatment of all cultural activities, which means that the effects of this law will be much better. Now I would look back on a few of the most important things that these changes and supplements regulate in a better way. First of all, the work of the National Cultural Council. He is educated as a professional advisory body that should provide permanent support to the National Assembly, the Ministry of Culture and Government in order to preserve, develop and expand culture. When we look at the objectives and functions that have also set up the National Council for Culture, then we must also legally provide the members of this law with conditions for normal work, which is being regulated by these changes and additions. On one Committee on Culture and Information, we have had the opportunity to hear directly from members of the council all the problems they face in their work, as well as proposals for further work. The Ministry of Culture recognised and proposed amendments to the laws which increase the efficiency of the work of the National Council for Culture. Among other things, existing solutions in the work of this body have shown that some areas of culture are not adequately represented in their functioning and that the National Council cannot achieve some of its objectives, so this proposal creates legal conditions to enable equal representation of all cultural activities by increasing and completing the number of members of the National Council. Also, since members of the council are selected from the ranks of prominent and affirmative artists and experts in culture and that they contribute by their work to the overall cultural being of Serbia and the cultural image, it would be their turn to get some cash compensation for their engagement, which was not regulated by the previous law. These changes and additions examine issues related to recognitions for a top-level contribution to culture, in the people and the public known as national pensions in the field of culture. I must say that most citizens of Serbia are completely unknown and incomprehensible criteria and ways of getting these so-called. National pensions and their assignments have always produced a great storm in public. There's been a devaluation of this process, and I think the abolition of these confessions from one side has been extorted by the Ministry of Culture's move. I welcome that decision, and I would add that in the future, better and fairer solutions should be made when it comes to such recognitions, because there are people artists, cultural creators who really deserve it. These amendments and additions to the law are more precisely regulating the election procedure of directors in cultural institutions in the Republic of Serbia. The existing law did not specify this sufficiently, and because of the ambiguous regulation of this procedure, there was an unequal application of this part of the law in practice. The change of measures defines more precisely and clearly the procedure for public competitions for the selection of directors and creates conditions that will lead to the raising of the quality of elected directors. Of course, the question of determining the general interest in culture concerns the creation of a basis for the proper provision of budget financing of certain projects and programmes in culture, which again is better specified by amendments and additions to this law. The proposed measures are aimed at raising the quality and efficiency of budget spending, thus improving the position of all cultural entities in a position to provide budget assistance for their projects. Finally, I would like to commend the Ministry of Culture, which in the DRI report received a positive assessment for its business in 2014. Of course, in voting day, I'll support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49141	Thank you. The word is made by MP Branimir Rancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49142	Dear Chairman, Mr. Tasovac, distinguished guests from the Ministry of Culture, ladies and gentlemen MPs, respected citizens of Nis and respected citizens of Gadji's Han. Why do I mention Gage Han? Because this is where the celebrations dedicated to Serbia's Jessenin, Branko Miljkovic, are held, as Miljkovic's poetry ceremony. But let's get back to the law. Today, before us, the MPs, in the National Assembly, I find one of the crucial, systematic laws, a bill on amendments to the Law on Culture, which arrived in the National Assembly on 7 August 2015, and today it is on the agenda, to my great pleasure. The Culture Act has been in force since September 2009, and has started with its application in March 2010. Before it was adopted, it was not regulated by a general act that would systematically regulate the basics on which culture operates. It has been four years since the date of the application of the Cultural Law, and given that it was the first act of general character to establish systemic relations for the functioning of our culture, its practical application has raised certain problems in its application. I'll just mention some of the problems the law needs to solve. First, the main issue is redefine the concept of cultural activity and cultural areas. In fact, the Law on Culture avoids directly defining the concept of culture because of its abstractity and thus the fact that there are many definitions of culture. But basically the culture of a nation is a mirror that reflects consciousness, belief and tradition. In short, it is a key that opens the door to the consciousness of a nation and its institutions. So culture is not a substitute, it's a key to life. This has led to a solution that does not define this concept, but lists different cultural areas that make up this concept in Article 8. The second issue of determining the general interest in culture concerns the creation of a basis for providing budget financing for certain projects and programmes in culture. In the current application of the Cultural Act, it has been shown that the determination of general interest in culture was not clear enough both in terms of terminology and content. This creates problems for cultural subjects in practice, because competitions that were called at the level of the Republic, the province and units of local self-government to co-finance programmes and projects in culture, due to the indetermination of the part of the law defining the general interest in culture, could not cover all cultural activities of cultural subjects. This Proposal on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Culture will practically create adaptations to cultural policymaking related to the calling of different competitions for the co-financing of projects and cultural programmes at the level of the Republic, the province and units of local self-government, of which cultural entities will benefit the most. For example, such a solution would have avoided, to put it this way, a misunderstanding about some projects, such as the Nisville Jazz Festival in Nis. Finally, to conclude, everything life creates for life, it's culture. Every work, every job, every act, it's culture. Contemporary culture, the one that goes with time, cannot be without being in its essence, i.e. in their development aspirations international, universal and general human. In voting day, I'll vote for this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49143	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's MP Jelisaveta Veljkovic. He's not here. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49144	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister Tasovac, respected guests from the Ministry of Culture and Information of the Republic of Serbia, today I have followed the entire course of the session with great care and interest and I will go home with that impression. I will go home very happy and happy, because, regardless of our political views, our political differences, today's session of the National Assembly has been followed by a very cultural dialogue. This showed respect not only for each other, I underline, regardless of the political and whatever other differences, but also one respect for the topic on the agenda. It was seen that we were different, that we differ in ways, in ways, in paths, but what we're all alike in, in which all the MP groups and all the people who discussed are similar, and I'm truly grateful to them, we've shown that we're alike in one thing, and that's the goal. The goal is to place culture in our society where it belongs, and that is fundamental, basically where it belongs, where it belongs in every society, and even in our society. I am sorry that this topic, today's topic, one quality and cultural dialogue did not follow the greater presence of MPs. It is primarily a criticism towards itself and my parliamentary group, as well as other parliamentary groups. I believe that colleagues and colleagues who aren't in a place where there's a very cultural event going on. I wish I did. What would I speak of briefly, giving of course support to the Law on Culture, and I will repeat what my colleagues and colleagues from the SNS parliamentary group have said, in the voting day, that we will support this Law on Culture and I believe that we will also vote it, and that is one question – what do we do for culture, each of us individually, each of us individually who is a public figure, someone who is exposed in public life or in our local environments? We can't just look at everything as silent observers and just look at the Ministry of Culture. What have we done? What did local self-government do, local environments? It's okay that the Ministry of Culture, of course, is a roof institution, something that needs to be supported, but a proactive attitude from the locals must exist. I come from a small local environment, where you, Mr. Tasovac, are happily seen by a guest. We were happy to see a guest when we opened the Museum of Banjski treatment or the Museum of Ballneology. Gladly seen guest when it comes to other celebrations. Vrnjaka Banja is famous for its view that culturally good can be part of the tourist offer of the Republic of Serbia, that it can be part of Vrnjačka Banja's tourist offer, that not only comes to Vrnjačka Banja for the sake of good air, the most beautiful park in Serbia, because of mineral waters, because of good people, but also because of the cultural goods, that is, everything that Vrnjačka Banja can be seen and heard. It is within a hundred days of cultural celebrations in Vrnjačka Banja, so there is the International Festival of Classical Music, and then "A Book Summer", "The Theatre Days of the Serbian Theatre", the Festival of Fine Arts of Serbia, and, of course, the Film Screenplay Festival that will experience its 40th year this year. In the cultural life of Vrnjaka Banja, where I come from and proudly bear that name, people such as Boško Ruđinčanin, Milan Nikodijevic, Jelena Borović Dinić have been involved in raising and creating new cultural goods and creating a good environment as it has been in Vrnjačka Banja for decades. I am truly grateful to these people, regardless of the political background, regardless of political thinking, and these people are also very, very active today in creating cultural life in Vranjska Banja itself. That local self-government has a good talker in the government of the Republic of Serbia, and not only a good talker, but also a good sponsor, for projects they propose is a good example of Vranjka Banja. You, Mr. Tasovac, you know, when we went to the Summer Stage in Vranjska Banja a few months ago, you saw the state where the desolation we found her in. There are now many works taking place on the Summer Stage to get a new one, which, of course, could not have been supported by your ministry, but also by the complete Government of the Republic of Serbia. I'm sure in August of this year we'll be holding a jubilee 40. Film script festivals to see in Vrnjačka Banja one canal atmosphere, see the red carpet, see all those people that one such festival and one such event and Vrnjačka Banja eventually deserve. That the Government of the Republic of Serbia and you personally, or your Ministry, have good hearing for those projects that come from local backgrounds also shows that when we looked together at all the small tunnels under the church hill in the centre of Vranjska Banja and as a possibility to accommodate the Museum of Contemporary Art or one part of the Museum of Contemporary Art, just to let you know that we are actively working on it, on the very ventilation of the entire area, but I really think there can be one good offer, not only of a tourist place, but of a good offer and of our entire state. Of course, there is the idea of accommodation of European values and the creation of a core of European values also in Vrnjačka Banja, also in the centre, of the space located in these pre-war villas, in which unfortunately they are situated in some period and social family, in unconditional places for life. One desire of local self-government is for these families to be divided primarily, 32 are for families to get adequate conditions for life, to get good apartments, and in this area that exudes both in this path and in that architecture and everything that baths and is and what baths and means, that we really put European values there, to show our citizens the European path that they have defined themselves. There's lots of possibilities, there's lots of wishes, there's lots of projects. I think it's necessary that we all roll up our sleeves. Maybe someone will say -- you know, those zero points, I don't know how many percent of the Republic of Serbia's budget is not enough for culture. I'm afraid it's even ten times the percentage, so it won't be enough if that budget is low, if that budget is sick, if that budget is attacked by some interest and commitments created in the past, if that budget is burdened by all things and spent opportunities in the past as well. I think it is necessary that we all roll our sleeves, that we all fight to make this budget more healthy primarily, as does the Government of Alexander Vukic, whose part you are, Mr Tasovac, and then those zero points several percent of the much healthier and larger budget will be a much larger amount for culture, but also for other things that are financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. New ideas are needed, such a dialogue as it was today is necessary, that regardless of our differences and our views we can offer each other, we can say – well, this is better, and that in this way not only this topic that is on the agenda today, but also many of the topics that will wait for us in this room and in the future talk and conduct this dialogue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49145	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, I ask before the conclusion of a joint principle and uniform search – whether they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word is made by MP Vesna Marjanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49146	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry to bring these nice words to my esteemed colleague, Babic, I'm going to show it a little bit in a different light. I'm going to talk very briefly about twisting the facts and the lies that have been said unfortunately during this debate. I am pleased that fellow SNS colleagues, who until a few years ago were the EU's biggest opponents, are now calling for the EU as top authority. We have heard even that some have fought against JUL, although today the largest official of JUL is part of this government, but it really has nothing to do with this law, but it has the following – that the 2009 Culture Act has received positive EU assessments in full and, more importantly, that culture is not at all an area of work (not understood) and to the most extent it does not go into harmonisation, and the EU mentioning in this context is not the most adequate. As for the untrues, Mr. Tasovac said several such lies, first quoting the respected Mr. Sasa Milosavljevic, director of the Serbian National Theatre from Novi Sad, directly abuse his words in public listening. On the contrary, he advocated retaining a cultural institution of national importance, believing that institutions of special importance should be treated right now. He had great expectations from this institute that you're abolishing today. The second thing, when the opposition asks reasoned questions to ministers or the parliamentary majority, we get personal attacks on individual DS officials in response, it is now already a pattern that keeps repeating itself. I don't want to defend anyone, nor do I think there's a need for that, but I think that when you call or mention individuals who aren't able to explain it, it's extremely inappropriate. Gorica Mojovic was mentioned. Well, of course, she was an MP in the Assembly, of course, submitted amendments, of course some were adopted. Besides, Mr. Tasovac, she introduced me to you. You came to the assembly asking for support for Philharmonic. As far as I know, she tried to help you with that. You mentioned Voj Brajovic and Ivan Stefanovic, as someone who sinned in the application of the 2009 Act, and they were at the head of the ministry in 2007 and was never at the head of the ministry again. I want to say the following: the mention of persons who are not present and who cannot provide explanations I find truly political disculture and I am sorry that this is, by far, a cultural debate, unfortunately, re-marked by these tones. After all, I invite you, I call on some neutral, objective organizations to finally determine the facts, to see who did what, not only in the area of culture, but also in other areas. When it comes to culture, how much money is in the budget, how many infrastructures were built, how many prime ministers, how many exhibitions were held annually at the time the DS led the cultural portfolio and how many today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49147	Right on line, MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49148	I really don't see that there's a reason for so much food, for so much anger. It's a nice subject on the agenda. A lot of good things happened today. There's no need now, in the end, to somehow cloud it all, unfortunately, with such a naked policy. In one thing I can agree with the distinguished colleague that the mention of a person who is not there is in a negative context that is part of an unculture, but I seem to remember very well for the past four years, and in the past two particularly mentioned names in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the name of Alexander Vukic, in every opportunity and for all, and even when he excavates coffee in the restaurant and then is mentioned Alexander Vukic, of course, in a negative context. I don't understand why you didn't think of that non-culture, political inculture or any kind of non-culture. Why, then, did you not warn you and the people around you and say, "Well, that man is in the government, working hard every day, we will ask him when he comes here." No, when he comes here, then some MPs have a little bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of work to do. Then they say, no, we don't want to have a dialogue. They're brave in front of models, they're brave in front of pictures, but in front of a living man, they're running away. So when some words are instructed, they're usually, and they can hit you personally, I think this topic is an important topic. I think we need to talk about her more often. We need to roll up our sleeves. We all have to work together. I was talking about the infrastructure in the area of culture that was built in Vrnjačka Banja and it is and it could not be done that there is no pro-active attitude and agility and local self-government itself but also a good talker in the form of the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49149	Thank you. (Vesna Marjanović, from town: Replica. ( ) On what basis is she a colleague? (Vesna Marjanović, from the place: Direct mention – in one sentence I can agree with the distinguished colleague. ( b) What is the negative mention of a colleague? (Vesna Marjanovic, from the scene: It is not a negative reference. I will now read to you your right to reply – if the MP in his presentation at the session of the National Assembly is insulting to the MP who is not a member of the same parliamentary group, stating his name or function, or misreading his presentation. Your colleague Babic agreed with you, so he can't misread it if he agrees with you. The MP to whom the exposure relates shall have the right to replication. (Vesna Marjanović, from the place: He did not interpret it well. If he's agreed with you, it means something's wrong with me. (Vesna Marjanović, from the place: No need to argue or give me a replica or not. I'm telling you, why don't you fulfill the right to receive a replica, learn the Rules of Procedure in all these years. (Vesna Marjanović, from the scene: And you stop giving me a lecture.) I'll be a gentleman. The word is made by Minister Ivan Tasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49150	I would like to thank all the MPs who participated in the debate today.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49151	The minister has the advantage at all times as a legislator, and I understand that the minister has asked to report to the hearing. All right, the word has a People's MP, Mirjana Dragas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49152	Dear Chairman, thank you, Mr. Minister, we all understood that you wanted to give a final word and a seal to this debate today, but in any case let me say, in the end, one general position that the SPS has. I think today's debate has shown all of us that the spirit of tolerance, mutual respect should prevail in this room on all issues when discussing not only the Law on Culture but also on all other topics that are relevant to our common life, so we will contribute to all of us being better. Today's debate also, thanks to your participation as well as the participation of MPs, has removed many of the misunderstandings that have likely occurred in some. There will be room and time, in any case, to discuss details of them further, to clarify them, to clarify them, and thus we will certainly be able to obtain a correct law. In doing so, I would simply like to point out that we all need to understand that the adoption of this law is not -- once a curtain has fallen and can no longer be promoted and developed further. It will develop and improve as it requires the overall social life, how our country develops, and how material conditions develop. In any case, our common struggle should be in the next period just directed that more resources exist here, that greater satisfaction with the cultural works created exists among all and thus achieve the ultimate results that we will all be satisfied with.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49153	Time, colleague Dragash.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49154	Once again, thank you for this debate and for your contribution. Bon appétit.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49155	Thank you. Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49156	I want to thank all the MPs who participated in the debate today. To express my security in how the cultural budgets are going to be bigger and bigger, because Serbian culture absolutely deserves it. Also, I would like to thank everyone who participated in public debates during the previous period, in public hearing, everyone who has prepared the amendments. We now have a serious job to do to get through all the amendments and I look forward to the debate in particular, because I think it would be a good time to get rid of absolutely all the misunderstandings and present, more precisely, to open up a new site of Serbian culture.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-09-0.u49157	Thank you. I am concluding a joint principled single search on the proposals for acts from points 2 to 6 of the agenda. This concludes today's work and continues tomorrow at 11.00 p.m. Thank you.
