ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u5968	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the fourth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 118 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert their cards into the MPs' units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 140 MPs are present in the hall and that we have conditions for continuing work. Do any of the presidents, or authorised representatives, wish to request a notice and an explanation in accordance with Article 287? Rules of Procedure? The word is by MP Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u5969	Thank you. Question for National Assembly President Maja Gojkovic. In accordance with Article 287(4), I would ask the President to provide the answers in writing within 15 days and to refrain from any oral explanations. Why have we not yet received an answer from the President of the Assembly to the question – when will the final seating schedule in the hall, which we have asked on 18 October? Why did she break the deadline and break the Rules of Procedure? Why is he afraid that the fourth-in-one parliamentary group is sitting in the front row?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u5970	A little louder, I can't hear you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u5971	When an annual work programme of the National Assembly will be adopted, as prescribed by Article 28(1). Rules of Procedure? For more than five months, we've been doing a full verse. Why no draft bill on the budget of the Republic of Serbia has yet been submitted to the MPs, when Article 171. The Rules of Procedure stipulates that this must happen within the time limit prescribed by law, i.e. Before November 1st? It's November 15th. Has the President of the Assembly already contacted the executive authority which is obliged to deliver the draft budget to us, and if so, has she received any explanation for this delay and what? If it isn't, why isn't it? Why does the President of the Assembly insist that replicas and references to the breach of the Rules of Procedure are not allowed until someone talks about the breach of the Rules of Procedure or after she speaks or after parliamentary questions? Where does it say in the Rules of Procedure? Why did the President of the Assembly allow the prime minister to speak without any time limit and beyond the agenda during the meeting's visit to the Parliament, bringing lies and insulting MPs who did not have the opportunity to speak out of these defence insults? Why did she call for Article 216? Rules of Procedure when he doesn't refer to government issues? If he thinks Article 216 applies, then why didn't she apply Article 214 that limits the answers to five minutes? Why did the President of the Assembly repeatedly claim that members of our parliamentary group are giving her insults and threats when that is simply not true. Also, why the speaker of the assembly claimed that Radulovic threatened and told her – you will see, when it is simply not true. When will the speaker of the assembly apologize to fellow Radulovic and members of our parliamentary group for these harsh and incorrect claims? Why is fellow Martinovic allowed to consistently and systematically, uninterruptedly violate the Rules of Procedure? Why does the President of the Assembly not exclude the microphone or give him an official notice or a measure of taking words or moving away from the session as soon as the first insult comes out or it becomes clear that he has misused the application of the Rules of Procedure or that he is speaking beyond the subject of the agenda? Finally, I remind the President of the Assembly once again that I expect answers in writing, and I pray that it does not respond orally at all, in order to avoid any possibility of abuse of the position of power currently held as chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u5972	I got your question yesterday about the seating schedule and I'm referring you to the secretary general because it's not within my jurisdiction, so you're going to talk to the secretary general about it, and I'm going to answer everything else, as far as I can, since you've given enough of your vision of things. What is in line with the Rules of Procedure, I will answer what is your opinion, I cannot answer that in my own opinion, it would not lead us anywhere. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u5973	The Honorable President, the Honorable fellow Members of the People, helps all. I would like, first of all, two questions for the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The first question is, when special sessions will be scheduled, on topical issues, the first issue is, the security and economic social situation in Serbia regarding the migrant crisis, and the second issue is, international pressures on the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia regarding the negotiations and the situation on KIM. Both sittings on the current topic, the Dveri parliamentary group proposed on 6 October 2016 and on Article 9. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the President of the National Assembly, on a proposal from the parliamentary group at least once a month, determines the day when individual ministers in the Government will answer parliamentary questions on a topic in question. Unfortunately, in October, we didn't have a single session on the topic and that broke the Rules of Procedure, so we're interested in when these two topics that Dveri's parliamentary group ran for the agenda, so we think they're more than still current. The second question is for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic, and concerns the role of the EU mission chief in Serbia Michael Davenport in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So, is Michael Davenport a member of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, based on which he attends meetings of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and, say, can the Ambassador of the Republic of Serbia in Great Britain attend meetings of the Government in any other country and is this diplomatic practice that foreign diplomats attend the meetings of the Government? This is of paramount importance to us, regarding the next question we are asking, and in addition to the Prime Minister, Alexander Vukic, we are also asking Minister Rasim Ljajic and Minister Ivica Dacic, which is - how far have the negotiations on co-operation with the Euro-Asian Economic Union arrived? Because we know well that we have a call from Russian President Vladimir Putin to take advantage of all the benefits that the vast Russian and now Euro-Asian market gives us. We're asking a question - why aren't we using these benefits? So, as far as these negotiations are concerned, what is our negotiating position in this direction, because we are much more interested in this negotiating position than this negotiating position with regard to the EU, which does not offer us such benefits? That's why we want to get information in what sense and how far have the talks on increasing the volume of economic co-operation with the Euro-Asian Economic Union come? What I also want to ask the Prime Minister of Serbia is this very foreign-political context that we are in today, when the EU is simply one overcome idea, when the EU is no longer modern, or current in the EU itself, and when across European countries beat political options that are very critical of the EU and such a Brussels concept of imposing everything on European peoples. This is particularly relevant after the latest presidential election results both in Moldova and Bulgaria, so why not in the United States, where we see candidates who want to co-operate with Russia and where we are now in the whole story. So, where do we, who are going on this Eurofanatic road to the EU, go at all costs? So, does Serbia continue this path to the EU at all costs, or are we finally going to examine that fatal path? I remind you, and I would like to ask this question to call for the promise of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, that here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we will have a special session on the topic of the topic of current -- which through Serbia should continue to go, should Serbia stop the devastating path to the EU and turn to geopolitical alternatives? So this is another series of promises from the Prime Minister, Alexander Vukic, who is not fulfilled and I am interested in asking him, that is, when will this point come to the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? Because for the Dvori parliamentary group, it is of great priority that we are finally here, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is having problems with the subject of the EU, as one of the devastating concepts that we are wrongly and with catastrophic consequences going on for 16 years, and the question is how long this trip will last and what kind of blackmail and pressure we will have on that road, and that we will never enter the EU and that it will fall apart before we enter it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u5974	Thank you. To the first question I don't know the answer, I'm trying to reconcile my obligations with the members of the government, so I don't know how to answer that question. That's the sincerest thing. As soon as I know the answer, I'll give it to you. So I'm not gonna make up any answers here. For the rest of this, you've referred others a question. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u5975	Thank you. I am asking the question of the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Interior and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In the past week, we have been able to see a report from the European Commission, which looked pretty critically at certain segments of our society, and above all I think about freedom of public expression, opinion, freedom of the media in Serbia. It's something that goes on from year to year in all the reports, like something where there's no progress. So there is no media freedom in Serbia. Secondly, which is very important, which is that we are facing a trend in crime and corruption, so there are no results in the fight against crime and corruption announced by the prime minister, the current prime minister, in 2014. But therefore, one area that is related to it is the rule of law that slowly falls ahead of the rule of political power. So, lack of rule of law, already politically affecting police work, affecting the work of the prosecution, affecting the work of the courts. We don't need the European Commission to talk about it, we see it ourselves. So, it's just a reason that we can look in the mirror and face the reality they face in Serbia, primarily citizens who live here. So, on the one hand, we have a rise in crime and corruption, and these people continue to do it in Serbia, and on the other hand we have an incredible ease of deprivement and detention without sufficient legal grounds and valid evidence, and this is already the freedom of the individual who is constitutionally guaranteed becomes a big problem because it is inadmissiblely easily taken away. You have hundreds of such examples over the past four years. At the end of these procedures, it is the epilogue that Serbia's citizens' budgets pay enormous compensations that are currently worth tens and hundreds of millions of dinars because someone did not want to do their job properly or tended to be due to the short-term political benefit of someone without evidence arrested or launched an investigation. One of the most recent and recent examples of an epilogue two weeks ago is from Nis. Three years ago, long-standing city official Branislav Jovanovic was arrested with media announcements, the front page, with gendarme rotations, an apartment search that lasted for hours, with charges that he damaged the city's Nis budget. The man and his family were dragged through the media, that the process would be suspended for two weeks, not only because there was no evidence, but because it was found that no damage was done, but the benefit for the budget. Now the question is who will answer because he spent the resources of the state, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia for such a politically mounted process? In order for that to not happen, I ask the question of the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior – what will they do about it specifically? What exactly has the Ministry of Justice and the competent institutions done so far about the very frequent occurrence of illegal detentions and violations of the presumption of innocence, which is mainly carried out through the regime's tabloids and the media? Furthermore, has there ever been a found perpetrator responsible for leaking information from the Ministry of Justice institutions or the Ministry of the Interior towards the media who, in addition to obstructing investigations, are also violating the presumption of the innocence of those people against whom these processes are being initiated? As a third question, how much does Serbia actually cost a liberating verdict and will someone in that chain answer their own money, their property and their reputation because he did not do his job professionally or because under the influence of politics he was doing something against and beyond his powers, past ethics and past the Constitution?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u5976	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u5977	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, first I have a question that I have asked in the last session of this Parliament, and it is addressed to the ministers for work, martial arts and social affairs, agriculture, and the Minister of Health, and it is related to the amount of compulsory social and health insurance for holders of registered agricultural land in Serbia. It's a big problem that, unfortunately, is not solved. And it is an opportunity that now that the budget is being prepared for 2017, the problem should be resolved. Here's the thing. Mandatory health insurance is 90,000 dinars per year for each holder of registered land, regardless of whether that land has 50 acres, or half a hectare or is a large owner, there are over 50 hectares, and there are many, many more. And you can see from this statement that it's really deeply unfair. It would be the same as someone who has a salary of 100,000 dinars and someone who has a minimum of 21,000 to pay the same in pension and health insurance. Therefore, I ask that a group or a working group be formed between these three resolution ministries as soon as possible, so that this problem is resolved as soon as possible and that the same story from previous years is not repeated in 2017. My second question was addressed to the Minister of Health Mr. Loncar, although it was 15 days ago, I still haven't received that famous report of control at the health center in Arangelovac, and I would like to ask the minister to deliver it to me as soon as possible. On the other hand, I have an additional question for him, it's about replacing health books. The process, currently happening in Serbia, the old health books are changing, the deadline is the end of December of this current year for this process to end, but we are witnesses in Serbia, here we are in Šumadia, in front of our health insurance branches, that there are huge lines, that people are waiting for this winter. That process would have to be accelerated. Of course, the ministry has filed a complaint through the so-called so-called E-Government. It significantly speeded things up, one number of people checked in, and that's how. However, it is evident, especially in the mountain-mounted areas of Serbia, in municipalities that are mostly rural, that a significant number of citizens do not have access to the Internet and cannot in any way, let me say, electronically, to register to him to bring a new health book to his home address. First of all, I ask the Minister and the Ministry to make one, if I may so call, working group or action team between the ministries, between local branches of the fund, i.e. the Centre for Social Work of Local Self-Government and to enable households who are nursing parents and where they cannot reach the health insurance fund's branches to be transferred to their home address and that they can then, later, get that health book, because they physically have no one to bring it to. We now do it in local self-government with the help of local communities, sometimes we do it with the help of so-called. Gerrento housewives who are engaged through local self-government, but it's all controversial. There must be one appropriate way to resolve this problem here, and only with the clear coordination of the Centre for Social Work, where local self-government founders and the resolution ministry are, in order for all this work to be completed by the end of the year, that is, in the first quarter of next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u5978	Thank you. The word is by MP Veroljub Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u5979	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to refer the first question to Minister Voulina. In fact, it's a problem that we all know exists, which is not solved, which is neither normal nor human. We all know that workers of the flag impro strike more than 30 days of hunger in Kragujevac, 132 people, 75% of them disabled. No one solves the problem. Jobs are overrun, contracts are in six months' advance, working on three shifts, Saturdays, Sundays, no question of the work, but the question of the company's status is raised. It's not normal not to react to the ministry, not react. It's not enough for the secretary of state to show up there and the problem to continue to be a problem. It's not normal for local self-government not to be involved in this, and I guess it would be normal for Minister Vulin to show up and solve the problem. So it is so serious that we are worried, so I ask – when will the problem of the company's status that should probably be a state-owned firm be solved, and then all problems are solved, especially, I repeat, if we are aware that there is work to be done? The second question is again a question that is important to all cities, and I would concentrate again on Kragujevac. It is the barracks ‘Radomir Travelnik’. That's what the Obrenovics did, built it. There's an island downtown that we've all been visiting since 9.5 a.m. Destroyed space, no one's here, urbanism solved. So there's supposed to be a big theater tomorrow, a central market, a big garage, a residential space, a cultural and historical content that's supposed to happen together with Milosha's crown, just left uncovered, unsettled. So I'm asking -- when are we going to solve the problem that we've been trying to solve for years back? Nothing is disputed, I think, exactly the same as the barracks “4. July" in Belgrade. No more families in Kragujevac, no more apartments, they're military faces. It's very simple, the city can build it, there's a way, but it's a question of when it'll be resolved. I think that's where we need, except for the Army Minister, to deal with someone else's problem. The third problem is the problem that is extremely important, which is especially what we stress from our parliamentary group. The fact of the matter is that local self-government is being dissipated. It's so obvious you don't have to potentiate. In addition, we are witnessing these days how much funds are denied to local self-government, and at the same time the state treats local self-government. Namely, there are government debts to local self-government, and that's probably all over the place. A specific example is the case of the Kragujevci. The purpose owes the city, i.e. the Republic's budget on behalf of unpaid contributions for personal income, you can laugh, but that's the fact, that's the thing that's proven, written, registered and confirmed, 2.5 billion dinars. So, let me repeat, so that we don't understand each other, 2.5 billion dinars, and at the same time we're talking about some of the city's debts, so it can't work, so the budget's in crisis, and now it's in crisis because someone left some debts. So this is just enough that you don't have any more debts like the city. You can do that by making up for it. So the city owes Elektroprivredi, compensation is made, the city owes Serbia, a state-owned company, compensation is made. I think it's such a serious problem that we need to take it seriously, so it's my question – when is it going to be resolved once in a way that has to be solved, that there are no cities for which the country is a stepmother and the cities for which the state is a real mother, which is therefore a fact? The question seems appropriate to me, so please understand it the right way.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u5980	Before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf of the students of the Political Department of the Faculty of Political Sciences of the University of Belgrade who are monitoring this section of the gallery session. Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Miodrag Lint.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u5981	Dear Presidents, honourable MPs, I would like to ask a few questions to the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs. Namely, in 2014 the ministry prepared a bill on rights of fighters, military disabled people, civilian disabled wars and members of their families. At the end of 2014, several public debates were held and through these public debates we saw certain shortcomings in the draft law itself. I recall that there are about 400,000 fighters in Serbia, of which about 50,000 members of the military and police of the former Republika Srpska. The key obstacle, first of all, to Krajisnik, the Krajina fighters, is that the draft law does not provide for the right to recognise the dual-term military standing after 27 April 1992, so when the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia was founded. It is a big problem, because the Krajis feel discriminated against, insulted, injured because they believe they have fought honorably for their hearths and for the SFRY, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Republic of Serbia. Another problem is that the draft law threatens disabled people, provinceal people with disabilities, families of local fallen fighters to lose their right to family and personal disability if they were killed after 27 April 1992. Also, the ministry has started in an illegal manner to apply this bill and all those disabled and families of fallen fighters who have stayed outside Serbia for three months have been abolished the right to a family and personal disability. Also, a real personal disability has been abolished for 170 civilian disabled wars in the Krajina area. We don't think that these are good things and that the competent ministry should fix this draft bill before entering the assembly procedure. That's why I'm asking a few questions. The first question is - why does the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs insist that in the draft law it lays down a provision for all members of the RSK military and police to recognise a dual-term wartime training between 1991 and 1995 - which is why families of fallen fighters are deprived of the right to a personal and family disability if they stay outside Serbia for more than three months? The right to a family, a personal disability has been acquired and it must not be abolished. The third question - why did the civilian disabled war in the area of Krajina be abolished the right to a personal disability? The fourth question is - when will the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Fight and Social Affairs finally send the draft law to the government and when will the bill come to the Assembly procedure? We think it is high time that the 400,000 fighters in Serbia were regulated in one system way, especially about 50,000 Krajisnik, or members of the Republika Srpska Army and police. I think it's an important thing that it is the civil and moral and national debt of the Serbian state towards the greatest war victims in the former Yugoslavia, and this is what Serbs have suffered in the area of the current Croatia and the Federation of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u5982	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u5983	Thank you. Dear President of the Assembly, I would like to ask a few questions to the Ministry of Health, specifically -- will local self-governments such as Svrljig and municipalities in southeastern Serbia be given the opportunity to provide new jobs for doctors and nurses in the coming period? The reason is because that part of southeastern Serbia, for example in the municipality of Svrljig, are municipalities that are very demographically endangered, which have a large number of older people, these are mountainous and mountainous areas where, for example, the municipalities from which I come from, that is the Svrljig municipality, there are close to 500 square kilometers, we have 21 doctors, and our villages are very old where last year there were over 360,000 health services to these people. Therefore, I would ask the competent ministry and the minister - whether for a period coming to see workers, or doctors for southeastern Serbia with an accent as a municipality such as Svrlig, Bela Palanka, Književec and other municipalities, that we would ensure that our older citizens can have services to be treated, because we are witnesses that these people are in the hills of our municipalities, that their children have gone away from them, that a large number of their children and poor thoughts about them. I would ask that question and I would like as many people as possible to be provided, that is, to be accepted in these municipalities so that we can ensure a normal life for these people, and in particular I am talking about mountain-mounted areas, villages where there are very few people, and we need to provide basic health services. I also note that a large number of municipalities, such as the municipality of Sreljig, have for now also hospitals where doctors are already coming but also announces that these hospitals will be shut down because there are not enough people in those territories. I think it would be necessary in these municipalities such as the municipalities of Southeastern Serbia, to provide more doctors, because it is not right that a municipality that has 500 square kilometers has 21 doctors, and some cities, some larger places that are closer to Belgrade and Belgrade itself are hiring for a few doctors for a period which, I know back maybe a few years. I think it's very important just because of the lives of all those people who stay in those municipalities. And I'd like to ask another question to the minister without a portfolio, Professor. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, related to the activities of our government, i.e. its ministry of stimulating the birth and survival of all in the municipalities of Southeastern Serbia and normally in all parts of Serbia. We are witnessing that these municipalities are very old, that in some villages 15 years ago no child was born, and in a conversation with the minister we saw that. I've seen that no child was born in some municipalities, such as the Black Treva municipality. Well, I'd like to know if there will be any stimulating measures for newborn children, for unemployed families with an accent on our villages, for women who remain in those villages to have children there? I'm sorry, because we from southeastern Serbia may not speak well grammatically, but believe me, we know well that we are working and we want good and south-east Serbia and normally the whole of Serbia. The question would be - will certain funds be set aside, funds that will be able to stimulate birth in mountainous and mountainous areas, in villages, and in southeastern Serbia, and throughout Serbia? Another question from the Ministry of Agriculture - will any back-up debt paid in the previous period for the purchase, purchase of a herd recovery mechanism? A large portion of the funds have already been paid to our owners, but there's still a little bit left, so I'd like to know, will all of this be paid by the end of the year?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u5984	Thank you. The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u5985	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask the question to the President of the National Assembly - how could you allow the EU Ambassador to Belgrade Michael Davenport to attend the session of the Committee on European Integration and still chair the session? You entered the session yourself, you saw him sitting in the office in the central seat. After intervened representatives of the SRS and proved that under Article 74. Rules of Procedure, Davenport could not attend the session except at the Gallery to sit down, the other way was not, you were intruding with the National Assembly and said if necessary you would chair all the Committee sessions. When I tried to make that question in the form of advertising to the Rules of Procedure's injuries, you told me it wasn't allowed, that at the time of the vote it was not possible to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure. That is not true, it does not stand anywhere in the Rules of Procedure, and it is not logically established because the breach of the Rules of Procedure can happen at the time of the vote. And at the time of the vote, it is essential to intervene and prevent the breach of the Rules of Procedure. We want, Serbian radicals, only one thing here... (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: How they listen to him carefully. Shut up, Kenna, you have to answer for your many crimes. (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: We will see. Maya has political responsibility, and you have criminal responsibility. Why is the humiliation of the National Assembly allowed in this way? You knew that an EU report in English was presented to the National Assembly in the electronic version, and on the basis of that report in English, the president of the Committee on European Integration has scheduled a session and that something that is not English is considered. According to our Rules of Procedure, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, there can only be a Serbian language and a Cyrillic letter in our use, and the President of the Committee on European Integration has declared that the EU's official language is English, so as we should use it or teach it, God forbid. I have accordingly asked earlier questions to which I have never received an answer – why do the highest state officials, such as Prime Minister Vukic, hold the EU flag in their working cabinets and places for the reception of foreign statesmen besides the Serbian flag? We had a tragic situation the other day that Prime Minister Vukic received Boris Johnson, the current British foreign minister, and on the one hand the British flag stood without the EU flag, and on the other hand the Serbian flag with the EU flag. Britain has decided by the will of the people to leave the EU, but has not left it yet. In a year, two days will be the least of that abandonment until they have each other's debts. It's like a bad divorce where spouses argue over every little thing. On the other hand, Serbia has not yet become an EU member. He'll never become one, by his chance. That's what they've been telling us for a long time, that no one will be admitted in the next five years, so again, our state officials are headed by the Prime Minister with a foreign flag. It is actually a public deception and it is in a certain way an insult to the Republic of Serbia. Is it time? Why didn't you warn me earlier?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u5986	Yes, it is. So you're expecting an answer because you didn't ask for it in writing? (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: It is best that I have the right to the replica. There's no reply to questions, I know. So, at the President's call... (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: If I cannot answer it in writing.) That's right. (Vojislav Seselj, from the city: No, no, verbally. I'm kidding. ) So, at the invitation of the chairman of the Committee on European Integration, Marinika Tepic came to the scheduled session of Ambassador Michael Davenport. Its right is to invite ambassadors, statesmen, representatives of foreign delegations, and so on, in accordance with the appropriate application of Article 89, as well as any chairman of the board. at the committee session, because it considered that EU Ambassador, Mr Davenport, was the most appropriate person to present the European Commission's report. I believe that she did not properly assess the conditions for holding that session because she did not provide a translation in Serbian and the Committee's composition, it could be seen that many MPs would ask, as they have not so far asked, for the document to be in Serbian so that they could adequately discuss it. She estimated she could run that session as president of the board. The deputy wasn't present. If these two cannot lead, or some president and deputy board, the Rules of Procedure were led by the President of Parliament, and this took place in an earlier meeting when President Nebojsa Stefanovic had to lead and schedule a session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, because the president and vice president, or vice president, were obstructing the work of the committee. That was in that meeting. Under Article 27, the President of Parliament is in charge of applying the Rules of Procedure and leading this Parliament, and I draw all my powers from that member. And I appeal to all committee presidents to use the Rules of Procedure because the same application applies to committee sessions. It should be well studied and the next session of any committee of this kind when it feels that there may be problems in work and functioning to think carefully when they fail and to evaluate the moment when something can and can't be scheduled. There have been numerous statements about it in the media, calculations, twisting the essence of things. The point was allowed obstruction, but I think it's gone too far, and about the events that took place after that session, I wouldn't be in public because I respect my country and I think it's done a lot of damage to that behavior. The great damage to this behaviour was done to this Parliament because it was a disgrace to us, not to anyone else, and if it was an intention to embarrass parliament in that, in my deep opinion and impression, it worked. (Vojislav Seselj, from the city: According to the Rules of Procedure. There is no Rules of Procedure now because you want to abuse the Rules of Procedure and to lead... (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Let me point to the member you have broken. It's not. Next time we go. Now questions are being asked and answers are being provided. The answer is given and the answer is as it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So it's not true that the ambassador presided. He was a guest and he was sitting in an O.R. where he was supposed to be, and that's how it's always been. And the interpretation doesn't make any sense. The form is what it is, strictly written in the Rules of Procedure. We can only respect her or disrespect her, for which we must bear certain consequences. I expect the president of the Committee or her deputy to schedule a session when the conditions are obtained, primarily the translation of the Serbian language, and then calm the atmosphere around that session, and I ask all MPs and those who are for EU membership and those who are not always for EU membership to listen to the guest, then ask him a question and conduct the discussion, but do not act as unhosted as it was the other day. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: You have now broken the Rules of Procedure. Now you have violated Article 89.) I didn't. I answered the question. You said better orally than in writing. (Vojislav Seselj, from the city: You have violated Article 89.) That's right. When we move to the session, I'll give it to you as soon as we get to the session. This was the answer. The answer can be liked or not liked. (Vojislav Seselj, from the city: I do not respond to the answer. ) The word is Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go. There is no question and replica in that part of the session when the vote is determined because the debate was closed and there is no further violation of the Rules of Procedure for what did not happen in the hall. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: There may be an objection to counting. ) Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u5987	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask two questions. I would refer them to the Prime Minister and to you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Of course it's about Thursday's events. I'm interested -- when will the official parliament and the government react to what happened here in the Assembly on Thursday? In fact, we can now interpret in different ways the session of the Committee on European Integration has been called. I agree with the opinion of those who stand at the view that it was necessary to provide a translation of the report into Serbian. Finally, I said so during the session of the European Integration Committee itself, simply to discuss it in Brussels, a translation into Serbian would be provided. Some MPs have experience, and even the Hague tribunal translated from Bosnian to Croatian into Serbian when they asked for it. So, I absolutely think that this remark was in place, but it's amazing that Parliament and the government don't take an official view of the incident that's been talking about us and that compromises Parliament and the country itself, because I don't think Michael Davenport is the biggest victim of Thursday's Assembly events, I think it's the biggest damage on the ground, because what kind of message do we send with such behaviour? Let's first say that we who are fighting for the idea of European Serbia, that we have sent a message from weak people and cowards, politicians who are unable to provide basic preconditions for the realization of that policy. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Well, why aren't we arrested? We have never acted violently in Parliament, but we have not retreated to any kind of violence, whether it is verbal or physical. So, if this behaviour is left without sanctions from political ones, I don't mean the warnings and the distances from the session, but the clear political views of parliament and the government's stance, I think it will actually be counterproductive, because it will speak of the non-existent force of those who then prevented the Committee's session and the impotence which is characteristic of all those who represent themselves as representatives of a policy that seeks European Serbia. I ask you, Mrs Gojkovic, to answer the question when will parliament take an official position, even through a statement by the College of Parliament? When will a clear message be sent that everyone is welcome here to parliament, provided they accept the basic rules of parliamentary life? We are not political equalists of a number of delegations that have passed and passed through parliament, so we have always listened with respect to their views and in a decent way or defended our own. Whether it is an EU ambassador or an ambassador of the Russian Federation, there must be an elemental rule that this parliament will, through what is real, present in it in the manner in which such an important institution should be presented in our society. It is not the defeat of Michael Davenport, nor the problem of the EU, it is our problem. So, when will the official government react, what has the foreign minister done? We in the past have had so much experience, we know that SMEs have responded to controversy in parliament, have sent protest notes when something similar has been said in other countries and have criticised MPs when they have represented a policy that was not at the will of the current foreign minister. When will the Government and SMEs react and what will you do as Parliament's president specifically to take an official position? Someone will think that what Seselj is doing is actually what is the policy of our institution. That's not true, it's an isolated political stance, which, unfortunately, because of the absence of the correct reaction speaks of our impotence, not the power of one who represents such a thing. They are right to ask for a translation into Serbian, and it must no longer be repeated, and I think it is necessary to correct the Rules or Rules of Procedure by which the Committee's session is organised, in order to avoid such a thing in the future and on the other hand a clear attitude and a call to anyone who needs us here for a smooth work. We need Davenport, not Davenport.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u5988	If you've been listening to my answer to Member Seselj, there's a lot I've answered. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Do you agree with Chad or with me? ) With MP Cedomir Jovanovic more than with you, it has been done to the Parliament first and it is very ugly that everyone has found it appropriate that they did not attend the event to comment on the events on the Committee on European Integration, and I have abstained from the courtesy and desire to calm down the situation without commenting on it in public. I probably made a mistake, so I let everyone attack us who didn't even know what happened on the Committee on European Integration. There is no need to change the Rules of Procedure about the necessity to have the documents here in Serbian, it is our legal obligation. That, you may say, was the failure of the chairman of the Committee on European Integration. It's no big deal to say that some board president has made a failure in the entire meeting organisation. I will not replace anyone, the president of the Committee has done well so far, she was obviously not prepared for the challenges that await her in this House's assembly, because there are those of us who have political experience, there are those who have something less, although she has a lot of experience. So it has to be in Serbian everything and you're right. This takes account of all the serious countries of Europe, to be in their language, and is increasingly used as an official English language, because at international conferences everyone speaks their own language if it is an EU member, and the translation has to be provided, you are absolutely right. You know the board presidents run the sessions, schedules, have to prepare. I didn't dream I had to interfere with the board and control whether something was wrong or not. I believe that the Rules of Procedure had to be applied, to pay attention to the need to be authorised representatives of non-member parliamentary groups, not to be allowed and to move from a small hall to a large hall and thus enable that event, which could have prevented it from being kept within the Rules of Procedure. I communicated with Ambassador Michael Davenport. He was at my place in the Cabinette. We talked about everything, I've managed many things in dialogue with him and to prevent there from being greater damage to parliament, to the state above all, and here I absolutely agree with you. I got a letter yesterday, but I'm not as prone as others, and it seems I have to do it, to go right in front of the cameras, to boast, that Michael Davenport said he was ready to come to this Parliament at the invitation of the President of the Committee on European Integration, on every call of my own, of course, to provide conditions for adequate work, and to commend both my behavior on that day and the assistance of the members of my cabinette, name and last name, but, well, I'm not kind of prone to be a skilled politician, to run in front of the cameras, and to show it, to brag and to pick points. I should've, I should've officially performed and condemned things like this. The opposition led this committee, part of the opposition, radicals and the Dvori did this, and I abstained because these are all MPs to whom I am president, not to condemn them, and I should have, and there you are absolutely right. I don't know if you're happy with the answer, but this was an absolutely honest answer. I've been keeping my mouth shut about this in public for three, four days, and now I've answered the most sincerely. The word has been made by MP Vesna Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u5989	President-in-Office, honourable MPs, using the right of Article 287. Rules of Procedure, today I would like to ask a question, or I would like to request a word from the Minister of Health, Mr. Lonchar. My question concerns labor medicine as part of the health system, which, unfortunately, in the last 15 years, has become increasingly unwarranted. Medical work is an extremely wide range of medicine that deals with prevention, and we are all aware of the fact that one dinar invested in prevention is the same thing as 16 dinars in curatives. The aim of medical work is a healthy working-active population, because only a healthy person can contribute to both his family and his working environment and the entire social community. What concerns is the growing number of specialists in medical work in Serbia, out of 800, it was down to only 250 specialists, which is due to retirement, due to the fact that most had to plead for the job of the chosen doctor, which is not the profession they were educated for. The problem is that the Republic Health Insurance Fund does not recognize specialists in medical work in its personnel plan. All this leads to the conclusion that we need more specializations in medical work. I would stress that medical work is achieving a significant percentage of its own income from health homes because it provides a large number of non-standard services. Namely, the medical work performs periodic, previous, targeted, check-ups, professional orientation checks, driver's medical examinations, weapons carrying, professional illness and work-related illness, which is carried out as a non-standard service with compensation. In that context, I am taking the opportunity to propose to the Minister for Amendments to Article 41. The safety and health law at work, by forcing employers to engage in medical work to carry out health care services for employees. I propose that in the adoption of laws and sublegal acts in the field of medical work, the profession from our home Institute of Medicine and Radiological Protection "Dr Dragomir Karajovic". My question to the Minister would be – does the Ministry of Health provide for some measures and activities to resolve the status and position of specialists in medical work that are not recognised in the Republic Health Insurance Fund as a special health profile, and can significantly contribute to self-financing of institutions in which they work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u5990	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? (No) I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by the MPs: Milena Ćorilić, Zoran Radojić, Muamer Bačevac, Vladimir Orlic, Aleksandra Maletic, Milisav Petronijevic and Aleksandar Stefanovic. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that this session has been convened within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the proposed agenda as soon as possible. You have been presented the minutes of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. We're moving on to a decision. I put to the vote The minutes of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016, held on 11, 12, 13, 14, 18, 20 and 21 October 2016. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 127, v – one, abstention – two, did not vote 41 MPs. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(3) and Article 93. Rules of Procedure, it is necessary for the Assembly to decide on proposals for the putting on the agenda of acts under emergency procedure, proposals for supplementing the agenda and proposals for the merger of discussions. National MP Milan Lapčević proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for nine, against them none, the abstentioned, did not vote 164 messengers. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Goran Bogdanovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic proposed that, by emergency procedure, the draft law amending the Law on the financing of local self-government be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the proposal for a law on the transport of dangerous goods be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – two, against – 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the United Nations on the provision of contributions to resources of a multidimensional integrated mission of the United Nations for Stabilisation in the Central African Republic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against whom no one, abstentioned, voted, was 171 a Messenger of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Radoslav Milojičić suggested that the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of local self-government should be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, the abstentioned, has voted for—seven against—165 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law laying down facts on the status of newborn children suspected of missing from a maternity home in the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned one, voted 161 people's messenger for – 11 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the proposal for a law on preventing domestic violence is put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to vote for this important law. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 130, against – no one, abstentioned – two, voted 38 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that the draft law on the organisation and jurisdiction of state authorities in the fight against organised crime, terrorism and corruption be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 125, against – one, abstention – one, there was no vote by 36 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on amendments and amendments to the Criminal Code be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 127, against – no one with abstention – has voted 36 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the confiscation of property stemming from a criminal offence. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – 129, no one, 34 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic proposed that the draft law supplementing the law on the election of the President of the Republic be put on the agenda after an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 11 votes against – one abstention – no one voted 150 MPs. National MPs Milan Lapčević and Dejan Šukic proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Amendments and Supplements Act on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 10 votes against—no one, abstentioned—no one voted 154 MPs. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the point of the draft law amending the Law on the financing of local self-government. Do you want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u5991	Thank you. Dear Presidents, fellow MPs, I will today try to get your support for putting 10 draft laws on the agenda, since, behold, almost two months of work, unfortunately still on the agenda of the Assembly we do not have essential laws, which essentially concern the lives of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The first of these laws is the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of local self-government, i.e. the practical repealing of those amendments that we adopted a month ago when the percentage of income tax is reduced for citizens who remain local self-government. The reason for this law is that we haven't heard in this debate what the government's intention is to do with these about five billion dinars, how much less these changes will be in the budgets of local self-government, and more in the account of the central republican budget. And we didn't, since he wasn't there when we had the Minister of Finance's hearing, we could get an answer to what the government's intention to do with that money, we didn't get it, and that's why we proposed today, in front of the SDS-NPS Group two laws. One is that this percentage should be returned, and the other is to reduce the income tax from citizens, or 10% to 9%, to make a level of this effect that has now been adopted by the amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government, there are local budgets, that they remain reduced by these five billion dinars, but that by five billion dinars, the revenues of the Republic budget are reduced, and that they go into one process that represents a painful point of the Serbian economy. It's a huge burden on taxes and social benefits. Today in Serbia, taxes and social and pension insurance are almost 70% of the net wage. We are at the top of the country, and anyone who deals with the economy will tell you that the big problem for businessmen is paying such a huge cost to the state for profit. This reduction from 10% to 9% of citizens' income tax in the total amount is not large, but it is symbolic and sends a message to the state that it wants to facilitate business in the Republic of Serbia, that it wants to deal with the grey economy, because one of the biggest causes of the grey economy, which is estimated at 300m euros per year, are precisely this big pay procedures.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u5992	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 20 votes against – no one, abstention – one, was voted by 141 MPs. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by the point of the draft law supplementing the Government Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u5993	Thank you, President. The Government Act should be amended together with the Law amending the Law on the financing of political activities, and this part of the Law on Government itself says that above the member and the Article 11 changes and says – health capacity, incompatibility and conflict of interest, so said Article 11. - before the government's election, any proposed member of the Government must provide the National Assembly with medical assurance of the health capacity to establish a working relationship in state bodies. A member of the government cannot be in any other public office in the state body, the entity of an autonomous province, municipalities, cities, cities of Belgrade, or perform acts that are incompatible by law with the duties of government members, nor create the possibility of a conflict of public and private interest. A member of the government is obliged to comply with all the regulations governing conflict of interest in the exercise of public functions. I've repeated that a few times, a few notes from the introductions. This does not apply to any government individually, nor to the last, since the law cannot act retroactively, nor to the current, since it is chosen, as it is, but to the future. So you don't get what's happening to you, which is that we're getting high-ranking state functions, not just in the last four years, but a little earlier, people who are suspected of being justified, whether their psychophysical abilities can meet these high challenges that bring a member of the government. It doesn't mean that people are sick, it doesn't mean they're crazy or incompetent, but it's a question of whether they can respond to those high needs that they're going to be chosen for. I think it's very good and it can preserve the citizens of Serbia, the state of Serbia, the institutions of Serbia and this parliament, but above all the government, as the most operational and important institution in this country, from making decisions or at least making statements that cannot benefit either the state or the people or the citizens, but are creating major problems for all of us. I hope this time you will honor my appeal and vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u5994	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare: 21, against – no one, abstention – has ever voted 143 MPs. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law amending the Law on the financing of political activities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u5995	This law that I have already mentioned, and it is also related to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, and in order to shorten time, I will talk about both, if it does not cause a problem. So, the draft law amending the Law on the financing of political activities and the draft law supplementing the laws on selecting MPs essentially have a common goal, which is to prevent the spending of people's money, citizens' money, taxpayers' money on advertising, political ones, which in no way can be honored, joy and satisfaction in any sense, aesthetic, moral or any kind, anyone in Serbia. We are witnessing that in all election cycles, the ruling party that is at that moment has three, four, five, 15 times more money than anyone else and is burying and contaminating Serbia's media space with disaster ads. That's one part, that's the aesthetic part and that political inaccuracy and the inequality of political participants in the election process. But there is more to it than that, which is somewhere over or close to 100m euros a year, when elections are spent on these ads. And it's a disaster. At the same time, we have this situation that we have to treat our children with text messages, and at the same time they're throwing away the same folk money for a lot of commercials going on in some televisions, whether they're happy or Greek, or they're pink, I don't know what kind, but anyway it's a waste of money. We have a situation today that one of our colleagues has to use text messages to treat his child. It would not have happened to him or any Serbian citizen to adopt this law, that the funds now allocated to the budgets and in the years to come are directed to treat children who cannot be treated in our country for any reason. If there needs to prove the humanity of the idea and the clear definition that it is useful for all of us, then I don't know what else to suggest that MPs would vote for it. By the way, I invite you to send a text message to 5757. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u5996	Thank you. I'm putting it to a vote. I am concluding the vote and I am saying that for – 26, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 139 MPs. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, on the basis of Article 92, suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs. Do you want a word? (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: I was already talking about it. That's what you were saying. Then I'll put it to a vote. I am concluding the vote and I am saying that for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 146 MPs. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Higher Education. Do you want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u5997	This is an old proposal. I think he's almost two years old. It's very simple. This bill, if adopted, will be the best remedy against the theft of intellectual property, i.e. the law that says in its first article – in the Law on Higher Education, the Official Messenger and that, point 1 is added, which is – academic integrity. Article 2 says – after Article 5, the name of the member and of the 5a that reads – academic congratulation is added. Academic congratulation is based on the independent production of written works, as well as on the strict respect for other people's copyrights. What part of this sentence does not correspond to colleagues who will not vote in favour of this bill, is the part that says – academic integrity is based on the independent creation of written works, or part – as well as on the strict respect for other people's copyrights? Thus, the independent production of written works necessarily implies and respects other people's copyrights. So, I think the sentence is very simple, and I don't know who but a plagiarist would have an interest in not adopting this member of the law. I've received a response from the government, which is rare, to this bill. Well, he says, given the fact that in the bill the principles of academic honesty are defined only in relation to written works, the introduction of academic honesty as a new principle of higher education cannot be accepted in the way it was given in the bill. How do you plan to protect yourself in the oral part? How, which organ will listen to the permanent what who says and that protection will be in the oral part? Of course, the written part, not written, is more important, and that lectures in people's presentations can even quote without reference, without calling for a source of other people's thoughts, but in written papers, without which no academic title can be obtained, whether it's any degree or doctorate, it's very clear. Here in the second part of the argument, namely the government's opinion is said that the government is ready to change all of that, and that is a long time ago, the Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic is signed. I think that we should help the Prime Minister and the Government by proposing, not the agenda to put this bill in place that will help the government not to worry and not to look at amongst themselves who is honest and who is not academically decent, but to bring it to us and to help them in this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u5998	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I am concluding the vote and I am saying that for – 19, no one, abstentioned – one, has voted 145 MPs. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a proposal for a resolution of the National Assembly on the recognition and condemnation of genocide against Armenians committed in the Ottoman Empire between 1915 and 1922. Do you want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u5999	Repeated motion for a resolution. I think I have repeated my arguments many times, that the citizens of Serbia, the Serbian people, but everyone else living in this country have their own personal, collective, state-owned, national interest in condemning the genocide that was committed over the Armenians a hundred years ago, that it has nothing to do with Turkish politics at this time. We could talk about her, but that's not the point of this resolution. That genocide, attempts by genocide, were made, were successful, unfortunately, genocides, something that marked and I hope no longer mark events in this territory, in this part of the world where we live, that these genocides were also where the state of Serbia was once and where it is now, but also in the environment, and also in a geographical area called Kosovo today, by some geniuses and plagiarists. Therefore, let us make our solidarity to the Armenian people something that will surely be returned to us from all sides. To repeat, the text of this declaration, resolutions or statements adopted over 50 parliaments in the world, on all sides, both Russia and China, but both France and Germany and many others. I think Serbia is a place among those honorable states. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6000	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I am concluding the vote and I am saying that for – 20, against – no one, abstention – no one voted 144 MPs. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill amending the Law on Tax on Income of Citizens. Do you want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6001	Thank you, Your Honor, the President. Fellow MPs, so here we go. We have proposed two laws that are bound, i.e. solutions are interlinked. The idea is to increase the rate of income tax on citizens who are singled out by local self-government, but to cut the tax, the tax rate to decrease from 10% to 9%. Since 2004, the tax burden, i.e. the burden on profits going to the state in the name of contributions and taxes, has not changed and amounts to almost 70% and is one of the main causes of the gray economy. There are many employers today in Serbia who pay their employees with their consent as they say legally or on white minimum earnings and pay the country a minimum amount in the name of taxes and contributions, and the rest to net earnings is paid in an envelope by hand. This leaves the state deprived of significant resources. These estimates go a few hundred million euros. And that, unfortunately, is normal, it's due to a situation where the state doesn't guarantee you that you'll have as much pension as you should if you're paying the full amount of pension, because two years ago, this country unconstitutionally and illegally reduced pensions to just some pensioners. Today in Serbia, the state cannot guarantee that you will have the right and the opportunity to treat yourself in state hospitals, no matter how much you pay for your earnings every month, and then in some companies private health insurance is developing which is not bad, but in other countries it is a matter of choice whether you have private or state-owned. With us, the obligation to pay for state insurance in certain companies is also paid for private insurance, both health insurance and pension insurance. All of these are reasons why we believe that this change would not solve these problems, but at least it would be a guideline to which state should go, on the one hand, more responsible spending on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, as well as local budgets, and on the other hand, less segregation on income, to disburse profits. Every time there's talk at the beginning of each government's mandate, the last ten years have been said, we're going to cut those 70% to below 50%. Nothing ever happened. If we could see now, in case local self-government is taken five billion without any explanation of what the purpose of this is in the republican budget, and here's a way to reduce that burden and go through the relief of the economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6002	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who has abstention for – 18, against – there is no one who has been abstaining – who has not voted 146 Members of the people. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. Before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf of the students of the Department of Reporting and Communications of the Faculty of Political Sciences of the University of Belgrade. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling board to determine the facts and circumstances regarding the destruction of buildings in Belgrade in the part of the city known as "Savavala" on 25 April 2016. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6003	Thank you, Your Honor. I think most of the public is only familiar with the media about what happened on the night between April 24th and 25th of this year and the state's reaction, or the absence of a state reaction. Seeing in the days immediately after the state would obviously avoid solving this event through the institutions of the system, our parliamentary group of the Social Democratic Party – The National Movement of Serbia submitted another June 6th to the assembly procedure for the establishment of a polling committee. This quickly joined my colleague Balša Bozovic's initiative and the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I think it's high time, of course, after seven months of silence from the state and no response to what was happening that night, and it's not the point then that several barracks are legal or illegal, as often the prime minister of the Republic of Serbia comments, have been shot down. The problem is that the state of Serbia has been suspended for several hours. Police did not go out, did not respond, and who is responsible has never been identified. We want to get answers to the questions of what happened on that night, who are the employers, who are responsible, to finally hear the names, which are the complete idiots from the top of the city government who are responsible, as in all these days followed by the Prime Minister, as the Prime Minister has qualified those people. What might also be interesting is the topic of discussion and knowledge and determination on this survey board, for example, as we have now seen in the case of finding weapons near the home of the Prime Minister's father. Very quickly, our services identified 97, as they say, safely interesting people who stayed there. Let's just say, it would be interesting to see how many people lived, it comes down across these cell phones base stations, very easily, which were people around, whether they were bald, blurry, fancy, and I don't know what kind of place they were in. Furthermore, which are the complete idiots from the top of the city government were present at the site, and that would certainly speed up the prosecution's investigation which seems to me to be running away from opening these questions and getting the right and essential answers. So I urge you to vote in favour of this initiative, to form a committee of inquiry and to come to the truth in the case of the Savamale. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6004	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – 27 for – 138 MPs. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on financial support for the family with children. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6005	Thank you, President. Amendments to the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children are one topic where the government agrees that it is necessary to change the way the state helps the family with children. What I can't agree on is the way the state does it. We proposed this law in September of the month. I've tried here several times to get your support for solutions. I didn't get that. However, the government's opinion has also arrived. According to the Rules of Procedure, the government is obliged to give its opinion to draft laws that are not proposed by the Government, but other applicants. In his opinion, the government is usually determined according to certain changes. When laws come from opposition MPs, the government rejects and proposes to the Assembly not to accept such laws. The government also responded in this case. I have to admit, the answer here is different from those fixed responses where the government, I say, does not normally recommend acceptance. This is where the government informed, you as MPs received this memo, if you did not read it, that in September 2014, a working group was formed to amend this law and that the working group worked, worked, worked, and then elections took place. The elections took place in April 2016. So this task force has been working for a year and a half and failed to make a proposal for changes and additions. I think it's absolutely unacceptable. Such irresponsibility on this important subject, on a subject that cannot be solved by forming a demographic council, as we now see announcements from the government, but by concrete measures and legal solutions. In this proposal, we gave our proposal some solutions. I was talking about it to the Prime Minister who didn't know about our initiative. When the parliamentary issues were here, I was talking about this topic, I was talking about our social protection system being ineffective, that the amounts may not have been reduced in the previous years, they are absolutely the same, but that the system is inefficient and poorly targeted and does not give solutions. It is unacceptable that there is still no deadline in this answer when we get this law. I call upon you to speed things up, to put this bill on the agenda, to get the government to come here, to talk about it. We can adopt different solutions than those we suggest, but do something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6006	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 22, against – 145 MPs. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Media Services. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6007	Thank you, Your Honor. Fellow Members of the People, this amendment and addition of the Law is about a TV taxi or, once called, an electric tax. It was now being attacked by the ruling party for years, it was promised to be abolished and finally suspended two years after the formation of the majority in June 2014. The amendment of the Law on Public Media Services was then made, and only that tax was otherwise called. A tax was called for public media service and was scheduled to start with its payment in January 2016. And, behold, at the end of last year, the Assembly adopted amendments to this law and re-paying that fee binds to an electric number. So, exactly the same as we had and so much was attacked by 2014, we get the same solution, with the only argument that it's now 150 dinars. I remind you that this amount of 150 dinars is guaranteed only for this year and that since 1 January 2017 this amount will amount to as much as the Management Board has established. The Governing Board may determine up to 500 dinars the extent to which the legal maximum is and I am sure if the Government does not provide an additional amount of funds from the budget that the Management Board will make use of the legal possibility and increase this amount to a maximum. In practice of amending and supplementing this law, it led to the virtually that the release that was so attacked by the old law existed, which is that the owners of the facilities, several objects, which have an electric number on the garage, on auxiliary facilities, are released from this fee is practically impossible. It's a much more complicated procedure than it was before and today some people pay it by counting, well, come on, 150 dinars isn't much, I can handle it. But in less than two months, we're gonna get into a situation where that amount is going to be three times larger than it is today. Then the citizens will wonder what is wrong and what are the people's representatives doing and why aren't they taking care of us? I call on you to adopt this solution that says that a natural or legal person can be a obligor on this basis only in one place, and not in many places if there are more electrical numbers, because it was the essence of the law to determine the list of debtors. One person can't be a multiple liability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6008	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 22, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 MPs. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Goran Bogdanovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Information and Media. He's not here. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: No one, the abstentioned, voted 156 MPs for – 10 against. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Goran Bogdanovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Assembly. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for eight, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted with 158 MPs. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Goran Bogdanovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Order and Peace. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10, against – there is no vote of 156 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Bogdanovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on corporate tax. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for nine, no one who is abstentioned has voted with 157 MPs. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Bosko Obradovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's poll committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the 2016 election process, from the day of the call of the republic's elections to the day of publication of the final results of the elections. He's not here. I'm putting the motion to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote: for nine, against the abstentions, no one voted with 158 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the selection of MPs. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for six. 162 MPs did not vote. I'm guessing he didn't pass the proposal. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law amending the General Administrative Procedure Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: No one, the abstentioned, voted 161 people's messengers for seven against them. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill amending the Law on special measures to prevent the conduct of criminal acts against the full freedom of minors. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 MPs. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – draft law supplementing the Anti-Corruption Agency Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for nine, against those who are abstentioned, there is no one who has voted 159 Messengers. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Property Tax Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for nine, against one, the abstentioned, there is no vote of 158 MPs. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Gordana Comic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts and circumstances that led to a helicopter accident in which seven people lost their lives. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for –14, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 154 MPs. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law on planning and arrangement of space and settlements. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, voted with 158 MPs. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Sector Payments System. Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6009	Thank you, Your Honor. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Sector Payments System was adopted before the end of the previous term of office. We then criticised the solutions in this law, first of all, those that threaten the interests of public sector employees, then the fact that this law does not cover the public sector as a whole. In fact, knowingly beyond the reach of this law, the public enterprises of which are the founder of the republic, or local self-government. Since it's been a few months since this law was passed, we see, they're showing up at the end of his bad solution. We see that this fact that public enterprises are not covered, that it is not covered by the NBS, that it is not covered by the Public Media Service, simply devises such a law, because these differences that exist in the public sector, as citizens first and foremost perceive, are employed both in the public administration and in public enterprises, do not meet their purpose, there is no equal paid work for the same job in different institutions. So today someone who does a kind of job at the state administration is normally paid a lot less than the same person who does the same job in the NBS, where the highest salaries are, or in public enterprises, where there's almost no control at all. We can constantly read about how in public enterprises neither respects the law on wage cuts, nor respects the government's decisions that there are no bonuses or any other rewards and little by little the only ones that respond to such examples, and only after that reaction is, the IMF's reaction, the government is doing something. We have the fact that many injustices remain and that the solutions, i.e. that the intention of this law is not met, and therefore we have suggested that these changes in the public sector include public enterprises, NBS and Public Media Service, to delete some solutions that go to the detriment of employees, which reduce their rights, which make it easier to fire, to reduce the space for party employment that has practically become mandatory and the only way to get to work in the public sector. On the other hand, we have announcements of some increase in earnings, since the new year, from which government employees are unfortunately skipped.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6010	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, with abstentions, voted 147 MPs for – 21 against. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the point of the draft law supplementing the Tax Act on additional value. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6011	Thank you, President. I believe that since this law has been in place for more than a year, we suggest that you are familiar with its contents. Namely, our proposal is to tax baby food at a lower tax rate. Today, it is taxed at a tax rate of 20% as well as all other goods. Our proposal is that baby food is taxed at a lower tax rate than 10%. A bunch of arguments in these years and more days every time we had the chance to try to put this agenda item on the agenda we were taking. Of course, this measure is not enough and cannot solve demographic problems in Serbia, but it is certainly one of the possible measures. What we've been calling for over a year is for some changes and concrete measures to move forward. However, there is no response from the ruling majority. Now, here's the latest we hear the formation of a demographic council with the Prime Minister at the helm. What will be the results for this advice? When can we expect concrete first measures to come before Serbian lawmakers? We think that time is going by very quickly, that the processes of the negative demographics that are happening in Serbia may have already crossed that critical point without returning, and we think that the response is necessary immediately, and that is why we have been asking for your support for this change for more than a year. The minister when a year ago, by adopting amendments to the VAT Act in another part, which the government thought was most important for Serbian citizens, we tried through the amendment to propose to him, the minister himself said that this was not a problem and that the results would probably not be great, certainly would not be a great cost for the budget, but, at that time, the minister said as an argument, that the amendment would not be accepted and this initiative would not adopt too much administration of the Tax Administration. I think that citizens are rightfully asked – what does the Tax Administration do, since tax solutions are not issued or are very late with them, tax from the biggest debtors is not charged? We have companies that owe dozens and dozens of millions of euros to the state and then overnight receive a reprogramme, on the one hand, those debts, and on the other hand, the state's assistance in terms of favourable loans, which is a bad policy and price, and bad policies are paid by citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and I'm afraid if we don't do something about demographics, the Serbian people will pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6012	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 26, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 143 MPs. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the points of the draft law. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6013	Thank you, Mr. President. Another reason why we feel it is important to pass one such law of a bit of an unusual name, the Law on Law Proposing, arises from the fact that even today, on the agenda of the session on its own chance, since none of the proposed laws proposed by the opposition MPs will be adopted, we will have four laws of which all four have entered the assembly procedure according to an urgent procedure. It seems to me statistics of about seven laws, as much as we had in this conference, I think it's six per emergency procedure or five. In the last session, the assessment of the laws that entered the assembly procedure was 54%. Such a practice simply violates legal certainty, prevents citizens and institutions interested in certain legal solutions that we are discussing and adopting here from having enough time to get to know them properly, to eventually respond, to propose some amendments and to adopt better laws here than we adopt them. Not to adopt the best laws tells statistics how many laws we have passed under an emergency procedure came to be re-admissioned after a few months into the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. Some laws have been adopted four or five times in the previous term of office for those two, not two years, and that parliamentary opportunity for the government to explain the proposal and that some law is being misused by an emergency procedure and that is clear to all. When you read that argument, you can't find any arguments as to why something is brought about by an emergency procedure, whether we're too late to fulfil any obligations, whether a solution is conditioned by some other law. There's no such thing. One arbitraryity, and because of these things, Serbia has problems, and this is also found in the reports of the European Commission and other international institutions that value Serbia's legal system, and appreciate it with a poor assessment and the essence of this law, is that there are, of course, cases, but that they are clearly prescribed by law, not by the Rules of Procedure, but by the law when we are going to consider some laws by emergency procedure and that these are really exceptions, not rules. I call on you to restore Parliament's reputation and raise security in Serbia's legal system to a higher level to adopt this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6014	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 23, against – there is no vote of 146 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session to the point – Proposal for a law on the termination of the Law on the provisional arrangement of the way pensions are paid. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6015	Thank you. President-in-Office, fellow MPs, for two years now, this extremely damaging Law on the temporary arrangement of how pensions are paid. When the law was proposed to the National Assembly, this word was temporarily explained and explained by the law until the end of 2017. The debate said, and the Prime Minister who was there, and the finance minister, said they expect better results than what was planned at that time, a better situation in the budget and that three years ago conditions would be created for this law to cease to apply. Here, it's been two years and we've been listening all year in 2016 that there's a surplus in the Republic of Serbia's budget, about great results, but there's no announcement that this law is going to stop. On the contrary, in response to this proposal by the Government, the law implies that this law will become permanent, that it will be valid indefinitely, as it is said that the long-term financial sustainability of the pension insurance system should be ensured and that the proposal for this law is therefore unacceptable. I ask you here now, Members of the SNS and Government, can you make a public commitment to the citizens of Serbia that this law will be abolished in at least a year? I remind you, the word is temporarily on behalf of this law and there was this three-year term. It has been two years, the results are better, reportedly, according to both the Prime Minister and the finance minister. So now they're at the level they were planned for 2017. Why, then, is the proposal not to adopt our draft law on the abolition of this law, to return pensioners to that level that existed in October 2014? Can't increase from 1.25% last year and an announcement of 1.5% for next year to compensate for a reduction of up to 25%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6016	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 26, against – no one with abstention – has voted 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Culture. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6017	Thank you. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on Culture stems from our intention to correct, according to us, a bad solution that was adopted when this law was amended at the beginning of this year. In general, this government leaves with a number of laws very important things to lay down regulations and other sublaws, and in this law, it has also left the right, i.e. the way to determine the right and the payment of national pensions to responsible citizens in the field of culture, to regulate the regulation. What we're looking for is that some basic things are determined by law, because we think that establishing such important things by regulation is bad, because regulations are passed non-transparently, it's very difficult to find them and especially to follow how the government acts on them, while in the case of the law, it's where it's easier and where your right to do something and the possibility of achieving a right is stronger when it's guaranteed by law, not regulation. The government, in its opinion of this bill of ours, which, of course, says it proposes to the National Assembly that the law be rejected, said that what we have proposed here is a matter of regulation and that the law should not be adopted. I call on you to accept, for this very reason, that such important things be the subject of the law, not regulations, that by law we define that every cultural worker who receives an international award within the area of culture that he deals with acquires the right to national recognition, that it is not the decision of a commission, which, by what criteria, often untransparent, can decide to get that recognition and someone not to get it. We've got this sports prize case, sports awards. The law there says that any athlete who wins one of the medals in international, European and world competitions achieves that right automatically, and then the regulation only determines how that right will be achieved. We want this case to be with cultural workers. We think that the area of culture is equally, if not more important than the area of top sports, especially since today's top athletes make big profits and all the honours of it, while in culture the situation is economically uncomparably difficult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6018	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one who is abstentioned has voted for – 25, against – 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marinika Tepic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the sittings – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prohibition of Mandates of Non-Nazi or Fascist Organisations and Associations and to prohibit the use of neo-Nazi or Fascist Symbols and Marks. The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6019	I thank the esteemed president. I would ask fellow MPs to pay a little attention to this bill of mine, which, if I did not read it again, would change it, and as regards the recognition of one, not the new one, but the new one in the legislative proposal, groups of people according to whom non-Nonastic, or fascist organisations are extremely extremely defined, which are previous years in Serbia's public life and how they proved it. In Article 1 of the Law prohibiting manifestations of neo-Nazi or fascist organisations and associations and prohibiting the use of neo-Nazi or fascist symbols and markings in Article 5, this discrimination against certain groups of our citizens is recognised, more precisely, by highlighting the symbols or markings or any other act of members or supporters of neo-Nazi and fascist organisations and associations are considered to be any organised or spontaneous public appearance in which hatred, intolerance or discrimination are triggered, in the present solution, to members of any nation or national minority and to a church or religious community. My proposal for amending this law concerns the introduction of another group, i.e. according to persons of different sexual orientation, members of the lesbian, gay or bisexual population or transgender persons, or LGBT population, who would first be recognised by this change of law in the laws of the Republic of Serbia through the collection of LGBT populations. We are fully aware, even at the level of court resolution, that just acting as in the last case of Mladen Obradovic, when he was recently released for such potential actions and discrimination and showing hatred to the LGBT population, was released under unacceptable circumstances for me, for example, as was his wife's pregnancy. Since she's not pregnant anymore, I guess that won't be a reason to reject this kind of legal initiative. I would ask fellow Members of Parliament and MPs to agree that this proposal at least be put on the agenda, and through the debate that it may be complemented by certain other groups of our fellow citizens who may also be at risk by neo-Nazis and fascists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6020	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that the vote was – 28, against – no one with abstention – has voted, there is no vote of 147 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marinika Tepic suggested that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Games of Happiness. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6021	Thank you, President. I also ask fellow Members of Parliament and MPs to take into account this extremely significant change in the status of the proposal at this time and also to achieve agreement to put this proposal on the agenda and at least to discuss it, given that the initiative is aimed directly at increasing funds in the budget fund for the treatment of rare diseases, as the Law on Games currently provides, but in a much lower proportion, or much lower percentage than this initiative for amending the Law. According to the law on gambling, 60% of gambling revenues are allocated directly to the Republic budget, and 40% to the budget funds defined for the work of the Red Cross, local self-government, sports and youth and, among other things, for the research and treatment of rare diseases. What is the subject of my proposal is to redistribute this change in a different way from gambling, namely, instead of 60 to 40, or 60% to go directly into the Republic's budget, and 40% to these dedicated costs, to change the proportion in equal proportion, i.e. to explore the rare diseases of sport and youth, the functioning of the Red Cross in the first round of 50% of gambling income, and then to redistribute the funds in these five areas to research and treat rare diseases that are treatable, but there is no possibility that they can be treated in the Republic of Serbia, to increase the ratio of 5% to 25%. Since this budget fund was established in 2014 by the Government and is extremely limited in the amount, i.e. in the collection of funds intended to investigate rare diseases, but also in the treatment of rare diseases and diseases outside the Republic of Serbia, so for diseases that are treatable, but at this point this is not possible in our country. The aim of this intervention, as I said, is to increase the amount of 5% for this budget fund from gambling to 25%. That in practice means that instead of the current 40 million for these purposes, it would be singled out...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6022	Thank you. Time's up. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'll answer you now. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, with abstentions, voted for – 16, did not vote with 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. I'll give it to you as soon as we determine the agenda. So I can't make a precedent, 'cause I'm opening Pandora's box where there's obstruction in determining the agenda. It's never been done before. There is something in practice, said the president of your parliamentary group. National MP Marinika Tepic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the financing of local self-government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6023	Thank you, President. This proposal to amend the Law on the financing of local self-government makes it practical for the situation to return to that of a month ago when amendments to the Law on the financing of local self-government were adopted, bearing in mind that there are already negative consequences, i.e. noticeable repercusions at the level of financing of municipalities and cities in the Republic of Serbia. By changing this law at the time, the central level was directly affecting the revenues of municipalities and cities that fall within the safest incomes, which is part of the income tax. What began to happen in the meantime, although there was a sign at the time, is that municipalities and cities began to be in debt, to take loans, to meet the consequences of this legislative change, and by taking loans for jobs that are in the primary jurisdiction of municipalities and cities, such as the creation of schools, health institutions, infirmarys, etc. We believe that this is not a good procedure, perhaps not at the level of the solution, but that it was not a good procedure in the amendments to the law and that it was primarily necessary to amend the Law on Local Self-Government, to regulate the local self-government by introducing a political system, or as we all know, that no one questioned, we have municipalities and cities that are more irresponsible to public funds, but to determine a minimum of competences that everyone must perform and take care of, and then determine for example. a part of the university competence for which municipalities and cities that are more responsible or more capable could have additional resources provided. It is also in this direction that this amendment to the law, i.e. to return the previously amended law to its original state, first intervene at the level of the organisation of local self-government, and only then, according to this basis, to change the way they are financed, since the law on funding is following the law, under the Law on Local Self-Government, not the basic law, and it cannot have primate in relation to the jurisdiction itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6024	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – 19, against – 148 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments to the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6025	Thank you, Your Honor. On the agenda of the session, I propose that the draft law amending the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development be found. I propose increasing incentives for our farmers because those who are today defined by legislation are not enough to be competitors with those agricultural producers coming from developed European countries. I don't know if anyone here knows that in 630,000 agricultural holdings, as many as we have in Serbia today, there are 1,450,000 owners of agricultural production. Therefore, the largest employer in the Republic of Serbia is small agricultural holdings, and the least attention is paid to them. Of course, they cannot achieve adequate profits and develop their agriculture with such modest incentives, which have been set aside for farmers for years. So we listen here as we have money, we have surpluses, and I expect that in the coming period, first and foremost in the agriculture budget, and I expect from you fellow MPs, first and foremost from the SNS, to put, vote together with all of us, a proposal of this item of the agenda, so that your representatives of the SNS government can give support to farmers, because we will certainly have far greater effects all of us as a state. I will remind you that we also have poor parameters and indicators of agrarian development in Serbia this year. Three times more imports of tomatoes and peppers to Serbia in the first nine months than exported, we imported 14.4m euros and exported only 3.6m euros, but on the other hand the export potential of agricultural products is over a billion euros per year, which we unfortunately do not use because of a poor strategy and there is no adequate incentive policy for the development of agricultural production. Also, we have a situation where we have undrawn funds from the IPR funds of 185m euros approved by 2020. Three years have passed without withdrawing a single dollar of those funds. So, um, we don't have the funds, em, the administration isn't at the level that they can according to procedures to withdraw those funds. In the end, I must tell you that agriculture in Serbia will not launch magical solutions, neither will Arabs, neither will the Germans, will these little farmers who make up these 600,000 agricultural holdings that employ millions and 450 thousand people.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6026	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—18, against—no one, abstentioned—no one voted 146 MPs. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the session's agenda be complemented by the item, the draft law supplementing the Law on corporate tax. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6027	Thank you, Chairman. I have repeatedly proposed this proposal for a law supplementing the law on corporate income tax, and I will remind you, particularly the representatives of the SNS party, that your government has declared this year a year of entrepreneurship and that Minister Zeljko Sertic, a former economy minister, has actually announced that this year about 40 laws will change to facilitate business operations of business entities in the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, I urge you to vote in favour of this bill that is now aimed at facilitating the business of small and medium-sized enterprises operating in Serbia today. With this bill, I propose that every taxpayer in the Republic of Serbia who works indefinitely, at least every two years, workers in their businesses, reduce the base for the tax on the amount of personal income paid to those workers. Also, I suggest that in the underdeveloped parts of Serbia all legal entities, small and medium-sized enterprises that open new legal entities, they get rid of the profit tax for a three-year period. In this way, we would be motivated to have people do their entrepreneurial ideas and to realize in practice and to hire themselves first and foremost, as well as other people who would work in their companies. I would remind you that the situation in Serbia's small and medium-sized enterprises is not great at all and that we today have only 10 per cent more small and medium-sized enterprises compared to 2002. I think that instead of paying foreign investors out of a half-empty budget, we are buying 10,000 euros for an open job, in order to solve Serbia's unemployment problems with far less resources than we give to foreign investors. Currently, there are about 300,000 small and medium-sized enterprises in Serbia, but they create only about 30 per cent of GDP, below half the average in developed European countries. It's not because our entrepreneurs don't know what to do, because they lack entrepreneurial ideas, they're sitting down, or they're unemployed, as very often called by some government and SNS representatives, but only a good system, they lack the conditions of business that take place in normally organised societies. Serbia, of course, has a major systemic problem because more than 10 already existing companies are being shut down on every six newly established small enterprises.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6028	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, no one, abstentioned – one, voted 145 MPs. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the session's agenda be complemented, the draft law supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6029	Thank you, Chairman. I have proposed this law several times and I believe that everyone would be very happy to support it, but since there is no bell when I propose it, the MPs will not support it. It is a law to supplement the Law on Local Self-Government and to regulate and ensure the scholarship of students and students. Therefore, this bill implies that the possibility for municipalities and cities in Serbia to be able to support, that is, students and students in their territories in accordance with the legislation. Namely, it's in the Law on student and student standards already and envisaged, you just need to agree to the Law on Local Self-Government, and here, I'll accept if you agree to this as well as your bill. Propose him at one of the next sessions of the Assembly and I will vote for it, because I think this is necessary to save the submission of officials of local self-government by the DRI if they scholarship students and students. This is very important because in a situation where we face ourselves as a society and a state every day with growing departures from Serbia, we have to do something about it. In addition to being the country that has the largest negative economic growth in Europe with 38 thousand more dead than we were born in the previous year, 58 thousand people went to Serbia only last year. Over the past decade, more than 170,000 young people aged up to 30 have left this country, highly educated people to work for, of course, a better future, to provide their own existence and employment. It's a sign that Serbs are actually alive today and a signal that we have to change things. This is actually an assessment of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and at least we can take a small step and bring the Scholarship Act into line with the Law on Local Self-Government. So if nothing is done, this policy of emptying Serbia will continue. After schooling, young people will not go from smaller environments to bigger ones than they will go to other countries, more developed countries, and that is something we have to do. It is also necessary to make it possible to scholarship local self-governments and in order to meet the needs of the economy in local environments with the education system, because we are witnessing that there are great differences between the education system and the need for economy. All this, of course, speaks of how many unemployed people we have in Serbia today. If we ignore the manipulative statistics of the Serbian government very often, we are a country that has only 15% of the unemployed people in Serbia. We are the only country in which the unemployment rate is reduced as well as the number of people employed in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6030	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for nine, no one, abstentioned, one, voted 152 MPs. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. Dear Members, allow me to welcome on your behalf and my behalf the students of the Department of International Studies of the Faculty of Political Sciences, the University of Belgrade, who are monitoring this part of the session. National MP Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the session's agenda be complemented by the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6031	Thank you. I have proposed a law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government in the work of regulating the functioning of local communities as the lowest organisational forms of government to meet Serbian citizens in any place in our country to live. So, in the current legislation in urban areas, there is no obligation to form local communities, and I propose that an obligation be made to form local communities as a obligation in both urban areas and urban areas. Also, I suggest that local communities systematically regulate funding. Why? By the end of the year, by law six months after the local elections, all local self-governments have to discuss elections for local communities. So far, local communities have financed their activities exclusively through the means of local self-delivery, which is almost impossible to seduce in accordance with the current legal procedures, because this is being deceived in the same way as the referendum, and it is necessary that 50% of the population of a community go to the vote and put their ballot in the ballot box. Therefore, the existence of a local community is unthinkable and it is necessary to regulate their funding. I suggest that 80% of the property tax created on the territory of a local community should be made available to them from the local budget and regulated legally, so that citizens can handle themselves at the lowest level and decide what their needs should be invested in. In that case, they will need neither the president of the municipality, nor the mayor, nor any other local officials, that they decide and determine what they invest in, but they will have an autonomous right to comply with their needs, which they best know and invest in. So, in order to get to that fundamental decentralisation in Serbia that we're all talking about, fiscal decentralisation to the lowest level is also necessary and what I'm talking about is exactly in line with that. Of course, local communities in this case also gain greater independence and greater importance and will get motive for those most capable people living in these communities to run in these elections and to do something to make their communities develop in the future. I call primarily on representatives of the ruling SNS party to support this bill, as this is important for all local self-government in Serbia and all local communities and for all citizens of Serbia, regardless of who represents which party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6032	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 MPs. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Zdravko Stankovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Enterprises. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6033	Thank you. Today we have a situation of 37 public enterprises whose founder of the Republic of Serbia is around 20 are performers of duty, i.e. V.D. Directors, and there's no telling how much he's at the bar or the country level. This situation is not an accident. Insubordination and party v.d. Directors of the Government of the Republic of Serbia can be replaced without any explanation. Also, V.D. Directors or officials shall not have to meet the conditions necessary for the management of undertakings and which are required in competitions. Today, we have officers who have been managing businesses for more than four years, longer than the term of office of the regularly elected director of the competition. The proposed amendments provide that the period of performance of the function shall be v.d. The director or performer shall be reduced from one year to three months. The President and members of the Commission, the Government, the local community or the province responsible for selecting the Director of the Public Enterprise cannot perform their duties in the political party, in order to ensure the independence of the work of these committees, that the appointment act must be adopted within 15 days of the date of expiry of the application. An absolute ban on political party membership is foreseen, performing any function in the political party's body when it comes to the director of the public enterprise. According to an existing solution, the possibility of a standstill in the political party's performance is foreseen. In order to complete the department, it is necessary that the ban be absolute character. The amendment of the law stipulates that a public company can only have one executive director, except for a company founded by the Republic of Serbia, which can have up to three executive directors, unlike an existing solution that provides that the public enterprise can have up to seven executive directors, which is too large. The proposed change stimulates the departisation of public enterprises and cost reductions to the austerity measure. Directors and executive directors can only exercise the right to stimulate when a public firm earns profits in business. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Public Enterprises educate the departmentalisation of public enterprises and greater transparency in the selection of directors of public enterprises. The introduction of stricter conditions for directors in terms of work experience creates conditions for more efficient work and raising standards in the work of public enterprises. At the same time, a number of proposed provisions should lead to savings in the work of public enterprises, which would stabilise the overall savings measures in the micro-economics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6034	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, with abstentions, voted for – 10, against – 148 MPs. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Zdravko Stankovic suggested that the agenda be completed by the point – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on textbooks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6035	Thank you. We propose to amend the law by which textbooks will be free of charge for all participants in primary schools. The primary education mission is to be the cornerstone of the entire education system and to ensure quality education for all citizens. Primary education is mandatory and free of charge, and secondary education is only free of charge. From there we can interpret when something is mandatory and free, that the state must take minimum terms to do so. The amendment of the Law on textbooks, which we propose, makes it easier to fulfil the constitutional obligation to attend primary school and will also prevent the deterioration of family living standards that single out significant resources for textbooks. A large number of families are denied the right to free textbooks because they do not belong to statistical categories of materially endangered. Today it is only necessary for textbooks to single out between seven and 15,000 dinars, plus various manuals, exercises, electoral items, foreign languages, and when school supplies are added to all this, this cost comes to one and a half real average salary in Serbia. Education is much more than any other area requires to be viewed in the long term for a period of 20 years. The government, justifying itself by lack of money, is paying insufficient attention to education. If we are not involved in education today, we will feel the consequences in the next 20 years. Investment in it is investment, not consumption. The main problem is that there is no clear understanding that the instrument of development is human capacity and not only as future workers, but also as future citizens of Serbia. Once again, we propose to amend the Law on textbooks, which will be free for all primary school students, regardless of the material condition of their families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6036	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – six, against – there is no one who has been abstaining – who has not voted 147 MPs. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Zdravko Stankovic proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6037	Can we first determine if we have a quorum?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6038	Please confirm the quorum. Please insert your cards into the MPs' units. You need to re-enter the cards. I can see a lot of you thinks if the card's in the system, it's working. No, you need to re-enter when the quorum is determined. No quorum, 122 present. I'd like a five-minute break for the heads of Parliament to secure the quorum. [[after breaks]] Please insert the cards into the MPs' units to see if we have a quorum to continue the work. We've got 128 present. I am putting to the vote the draft law amending the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever been able to vote, for 128 MPs. National MP Aleksandra Jerkov suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Agricultural Land. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one with abstention – has voted for 130 MPs. National MP Aleksandra Jerkov suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on textbooks. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against them, has voted for, one, against, one, and none, with abstention, have ever voted 129 MPs. He didn't pass the proposal. The National MP, Aleksandra Jerkov, proposed that the session agenda be complemented by points - Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Code. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted with 132 MPs. He didn't pass the proposal. National MP Aleksandra Jerkov suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - Proposal for a law on the foundations of the education and education system. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one with abstention – has voted for 130 MPs. I'm guessing he didn't pass the proposal. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a bill on the termination of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever voted 133 MPs. No proposal accepted. National MP Balsa Bozovic proposed a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts about the role and responsibility of top authorities in the lawless destruction of buildings in Belgrade's Savamal district and to determine the facts of the responsibility of the person who executed the destruction of those facilities. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one with abstention – has voted 133 MPs. I'm guessing he didn't pass this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the dots - Proposed law on additions to the Criminal Code. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one with abstention – has voted 133 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - Proposal for a law on the suspension of the law on the temporary regulation of the way pensions are paid. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one who is abstentioned has voted for – two, against – 134 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a bill on the termination of the law on the establishment of public interest and special procedures for the expropriation and issue of a building permit for the implementation of the Belgrade water project. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare: for - three, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 133 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Aleksandra Jerkov suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one with abstention – has voted 133 MPs. National MP Goran Jesic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Agricultural Land. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 132 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Radoslav Milojic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Police Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6040	Thank you. I look forward to this expedition, Madam President. As you see the MPs are gone, you call them...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6041	They're at a press conference.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6042	I don't mind. The constitutional basis for the adoption of the Police Law is contained in the provision of Article 97(4) of the Constitution of Serbia and the DS is precisely proposing these amendments and additions to the Law on Police because the life of all citizens comes first. The proposed amendments and additions to the Police Act are necessary, given the state of our police force and the state of our police force. The situation is so bad that you, gentlemen of the SNS, have twice cut their salaries in the last two years, and then you have honored police officers with a reduction in their daily living, which is now 150 dinars. 150 dinars are made by people who risk their lives, who provide us with both our country and for those 150 dinars can afford a bun, and it's an empty bun, and a glass of yogurt, which is really a shame. Two key points are in the amendments to the Police Act. The first is that the ministry must determine the needs of the system and have a compatible attitude and compatibility between the number of students admitted to the Police Academy and the number needed to be employed at the MUP. We demand that all students who finish the Police Academy, who are staff, who are able, who have passed the best training be admitted to police institutions, not some Dijana Hrkalovic who did not pass the police station and now line up special anti-terrorism units or gendarmes. That's not what the DS was fighting for. The second thing is that the provision of Article 172(2) of the Police Act destroys the presupunction of innocence, which also cuts with the Constitution of Serbia, and the DS suggests erasing the member. This means that against every member of the MUP, any citizen, even some Martinovic can file a criminal report, that member is automatically away from work, which is nowhere in developed European countries. The Democratic Party proposes to delete Article 172(2) of the Police Act. Police must reform to a modern, generally accepted and European law. Is it true that 46 BIA members have been replaced in the past few days? The Democratic Party hopes to adopt these changes and additions to the Police Law, not because of the DS, but because of citizens of Serbia and police members at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6043	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, with abstentions, voted for – five MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Radoslav Milojic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - Proposal for a law supplementing the Social Protection Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6044	Thank you. The President-in-Office, the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law, is contained in the provisions of Article 97(3) and DS, given the situation in which all Serbian citizens are present, suggested three concrete things. The first thing is that all students, whose parents do not work, are provided free textbooks by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, to provide all students whose parents do not work with free transportation from home to school and free lunch for all those students. About 50,000 children, unfortunately, covered by primary and secondary education, are hungry today. Fifty thousand children are hungry while Zvonko Veselinovic garners millions of corruption contracts in co-operation with the government of the Republic of Serbia and other murky jobs. This is not the kind of Serbia she stood for, which she fought for and for which the DS will fight, and I hope you will adopt these amendments and amendments to the law, which are very concrete. Unfortunately, we have an example of a Moll boy who only recently committed suicide because he and his family are in a very difficult financial situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6045	Ambassador, please, no names, no last names, no personal effects. Let's respect the family.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6046	I didn't mention the name and name. That same boy went to cooking school and signed out, in Vienna from the third year... .
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6047	Please, just without a name, underage faces and family to spare.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6048	I didn't mention the name and last name, no. He's out of school... I only mentioned Zvonko Veselinović, and let me finish, and I didn't mention the student...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6049	You mentioned the name of a minor. Okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6050	No, I didn't. Take out the stenogram and please give me back my time if you can. Unfortunately, we have a boy who gave up his third year of school in Vienna because he couldn't provide free transportation or couldn't spare money for a monthly ticket from home to school. In 2015, the total share of children, in the overall population of Serbia, was only 16.9%, which is a devastating data and the DS suggested that all married couples who cannot afford it are provided with free out-of-body fertilisation by the state. Serbia is the leader of the region, as you say from the SNS, but Serbia unfortunately is a leader in the region at the risk of poverty, according to Serbian citizens. We can build bridges, we can build roads, but we can't let today, in 2016, our children are hungry. So I hope that you will adopt the proposed amendments to the Social Protection Act and that children whose parents do not work will have free textbooks, free snack and free transportation from home to school, which is minimum for life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6051	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that seven votes against, none, abstentioned, were ever voted by 132 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Radoslav Milojičić suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on the financing of local self-government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6052	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please check the stenogram to see if I mentioned the name and last name. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in the provision of Article 97(3). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the DS is now proposing amendments and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government, as the life of all citizens comes first. So the DS specifically proposes to return to all local self-governments through transfers, individually five billion dinars, as this National Assembly took away their SNS votes. Local self-government is in an extremely difficult situation. Since you, as you say from the SNS, no longer advocate the borders of Karlobag – Ogulin - Virovitica, but, as you say, we do not see it as examples, you stand for European values, to see what it is like in developed EU countries. The European Charter that Serbia just ratified in 2007, which you were against back then, guarantees the political, administrative and financial independence of all local self-government. Let's see which municipality, which city, which local self-government in Serbia, unfortunately, from 2012 to 2016 has any political, any financial independence. In the EU, half of the budget is directed to citizens and local self-government, i.e. municipalities and cities, while this data in Serbia, unfortunately in 2016, is only 10.2%, and there are also funds that the central level of government also directs the AP Vojvodina, which means that nine times more money has a central level of government than local self-government. You, gentlemen, have, unfortunately, taken more than 50 billion dinars from 2012 to this day, by local self-government, by indirect means by citizens. You did it to cover your deficit, so any household can have a deficit if these people don't have breakfast, don't eat, don't eat, don't have any expenses. It's not a system that wants to support DS. You are subtracting from citizens to give money to your father's son, the son of the President of the Republic, Mr Nikolic, in Kragujevac, whom you paid 185 million dinars in the day. What about the other municipalities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6053	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: seven votes against – one abstention – no one voted 133 MPs. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. Please determine the quorum now. Please insert the cards to see how many MPs there are in the O.R. There's no quorum. I'm setting a two-minute break. Please provide MPs so that we can continue our work and vote on the agenda. [[After a break.]] I ask MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system to determine the quorum. Please sit down, stop the phone call and focus on just this job that's extremely important for today's session. I ask the MPs of the United Pensioners of Serbia to repeat the voting process with the card. Please, we're not registering again. Thank you. There are 129 MPs present. National MP Meho Omerovic proposed a joint principled search on the Bill on the Prevention of Family Violence, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Code, the Proposal for a Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the Prevention of Organized Crime, Terrorism and Corruption and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the confiscation of Assets stemmed from a criminal offence. Do you want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. (Tatjana Macura, from the city: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) There is no voting procedure in this process. (Tatjana Macura, from the post: No Rules of Procedure.) ) Okay Rules of Procedure, but there are parts of the procedure, so in the voting process we do this. Quiet, don't help me. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 129, v – 12 abstentions – there are no, there are no votes of eight MPs. I find that the Assembly has accepted most of the votes of this proposal. National MP Bosko Obradovic has proposed that a principled review be carried out on the draft law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code and a joint principled search into the Bill on the Prevention of Family Violence, the Bill on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in countering organised crime, terrorism and corruption and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the confiscation of property arising from a criminal offence. Bosko Obradović, you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6055	Thank you, Chairman. The Dveri Parliamentary Group wanted this single search proposal to actually suggest that the amendments and additions to the Criminal Code should be a special point of the agenda, not to say put into a much broader context of a more proposed legal solution. We considered it simple, since it was a draft law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code, which covers material legal provisions within the scope of the General Part of Criminal Law, as well as a special section listing specific criminal offences, to take into account the role, scope and importance of criminal and material legislation on all legal traffic and state and social values protected by it. In fact, we believe that this act requires a principled search as a special item of the agenda. We have a similar problem that we had last time that four points of the agenda that are extremely serious, which really deserve each of them to be a special item of the agenda, so that we have more time to discuss in some way violently pushing ourselves into a joint search, thus reducing our ability to debate and debate such complex and serious legal initiatives. We appreciated that, well, we saved a little bit of Parliament time and we put three points together in a joint search, but for this one, the amendments and additions to the Criminal Code, we felt that it should be separated into a special agenda. I think it's a balanced and correct proposal by the opposition and that the ruling majority should respect it. That's why I once again appeal to the authorities to allow for longer discussion of these important legal solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6056	Thank you. Your motion for a longer debate is premature. So that doesn't go until later. Now I'm putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 147 MPs. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic proposed that a joint principled search be carried out on the draft law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code, a bill on the organisation of the jurisdiction of state authorities to combat organised crime, terrorism and corruption, and a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the confiscation of property arising from the crime. Here you go. Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6057	Thank you, Mr. President. Members of Parliament, the proposal that we adopted on the pooling of discussions on four points of the agenda in our opinion and for this reason I did not report it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, although they are different laws, but something that unites them is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Code, and thus this debate can be united. What we wanted to discuss about the Law of Violence in the Family was set aside from this package. We believe that this problem in Serbia today is extremely large and that the topic is important enough to devote a separate debate to it, and not to discuss the state's measures to combat domestic violence, which, unfortunately, is in constant growth and has taken the form of an epidemic. In this year, average one victim a week, one life is lost in crimes related to domestic violence. This topic is important and we have waited long and long for it from the government, and therefore we think it is necessary to separate it, it is very, I say, businessly possible to carry out this merger that most today has voted, but I think the topic is extremely important and it is very difficult at the same time, in the same debate to talk about measures to combat domestic violence and state measures to combat organised crime. That's two different things after all. I think that the quality of the discussion and, at the very end of the line, the measures and decisions adopted, that they will be better quality if we separate this debate. It's just one day of our time here, and I think the topic is so important that it deserves one day to talk separately, I repeat, about the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence, which is, in our opinion, extremely important. I don't think he belongs with any other changes, because those things that we discuss and those measures that we take after that debate, I believe they'll save some lives in Serbia, but the question is whether that's all we can do and whether we can do better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6058	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 21, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. I'm putting on a vote on a draft agenda in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 136, against – 19, the abstentions – there is no, there is no vote by three MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, established the agenda for the 4th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016, in general. Easy, can I publish? How do you imagine the work of Parliament? One moment. I find that, due to the minutes, most of the votes, the National Assembly established the agenda for the fourth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016, in general. Dn e v n i r e d 1. Proposal for a law on preventing domestic violence; 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code; 3. Proposal for a law on the organisation and jurisdiction of state authorities to combat organised crime, terrorism and corruption; 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the confiscation of property arising from a criminal offence; 5. Proposal for a decision on the selection of the president and members of the Securities Committee. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I set a break of one hour. We will continue at 15.00 hours and I will ensure the arrival of the Minister and her associates for the start of the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6059	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing today's work. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they have been invited to attend today's session: Nela Kuburović, Minister of Justice, Radomir Ilic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Zoran Balinovac, Assistant Minister of Justice, Dejan Carevic, Director of the Department for the Management of Disposal of Assets at the Ministry of Justice, Vladimir Ceklic, Assistant Director of the Department for the Management of Confiscated Property at the Ministry of Justice, Jovan Ćosić and Zlatko Petrovic, senior advisers at the Ministry of Justice. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint principle search on the draft laws referred to in points 1 to 4 of the agenda, before the opening of a joint principled search, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of Members of Parliament. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go. Before I give you my word, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, pages 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass the act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Gorica Gajević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6060	Mr. Chairman, I'm calling on the Rules of Procedure and all that. 94, 157 and 167. In fact, Article 2, first of all, of Article 157 says that the National Assembly can decide to carry out a joint principled search on several draft laws that are on the agenda and are conditioned or connected to each other. I do not dispute that these topics of the agenda, such as domestic violence, corruption and crime in Serbian society, property acquired in a corrupt way and changes and additions to the Criminal Code are linked to each other, and certainly we will all agree that this is the greatest cancer wound of Serbian society. But to talk about all these important bill proposals, amendments and additions, in a united debate, it shows that we are not aware enough of how many dangers these pose to Serbian society. We therefore take the time to consider on all sides of this proposal, to give the best possible amendments to all of this, and to make as much as possible, or to make it possible, and to make good laws that are applicable in practice the next day. As for Article 167(2), it says - an emergency procedure can pass a law governing issues and relations arising from circumstances that could not be predicted, while the adoption of laws under urgent procedure could cause adverse consequences for the lives and health of people. There's no such thing as an unforeseeable circumstance here, and there's no great harm to the safety and health of our people. It's a much bigger shame to go over these bill proposals lightly in some superficial discussion, saying once again that we don't see on all sides the problem we'll still have in society if we don't pass good laws, prevent violence, prevent crime and corruption, and change the criminal law that sanctions all of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6061	I hope we stop the practice of accusing the National Assembly of violating the Rules of Procedure. All this stuff you've now advertised by the National Assembly has made decisions. So, the government proposes an emergency procedure, we accept or refuse. A fellow MP suggested joining several agenda points into one debate, the National Assembly of Acceptance or Refusal. How can I break the Rules of Procedure then? The National Assembly decides, not me, as an individual. You have the right, as a People's MP, to hand over every piece of paper concerning this matter to me, I will put to a vote in the National Assembly and any chairman has the obligation to do so, and the National Assembly decides. Do you want to take the election day Assembly pleads on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) The word has a National MP, Balša Bozovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6062	Thank you. In accordance with Article 97 of The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, it would not be bad for Mrs Gajic, who spoke a little while, and she had the right to come to a solution together, Mr Arsic, if we could have twice the time for discussion. I think it's the breaks that marked today's work of the Assembly. We had 10 breaks, for the simple reason that there was no quorum at the session on several occasions. But it would be very desirable, if we already have such important laws ahead of us, and when it comes to domestic violence and the topic of current corruption, organised crime, terrorism, as well as the amendment and addition of the Criminal Code, that we simply have enough time to discuss these issues because I think they are also very important, as my colleague Mrs. Gajic said a little while, burning problems in our society. We have, as you know, a problem with defining how our society will look in 10 or 20 years. We have, in an economic sense, a very clear way to slave society, and on the other hand, when we talk about domestic violence, we have one more thing, it's about slaves in our society, it's about women who suffer violence, where society is treated in a very inert way. We believe that this is an opportunity not to push a burning problem under the carpet, but to really talk about it in quality and debate and come up with solutions that are best, and maybe the bill is just the first step. We will certainly declare him on the basis of whether some amendments will be adopted to complete this proposal. In any case, I believe that double time is something that deserves not only this home, but also citizens who follow in the direct transmission of this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6063	The same goes for you, counterpart Balša Bozovic, as I told my colleague Gorica. Mr. Sarovic, you asked for a word? It's a business thing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6064	Ladies and gentlemen, a member of 107 has been injured who says that every speaker is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly and that facts and assessments relating to the private life of others are prohibited. When explaining the proposal to supplement the agenda, Ms. Marinika Tepic, speaking of the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the ban on the manifestation of neo-Nazi and fascist organisations and associations, mentioned Mr. Mladen Obradovic, otherwise a prominent Serbian nationalist, and I could freely say a member of the SRS. She gave herself the right to talk about how he was allegedly released by the court for some crime because his wife was pregnant and something like that and how unacceptable it is for her. Mrs. Tepic obviously does not know what it means to divide the authorities into executive, judicial and legislative and should know that this kind of pressure on the judiciary is not allowed. What's acceptable to her, what's not, that's her problem. If he already wants to talk about the verdicts, let him talk about the verdict the president of her party was released from because he beat up a man in small hours with security, personally or in any case.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6065	Now you're doing the same injury.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6066	Let me finish. Secondly, I would ask Mrs Tepic to stop misleading Serbian citizens that members of the Committee on European Integration have been provided with this translated text of the Report on Serbia's progress and to stop misleading Serbian citizens as she has the right to invite Michael Davenport or any other ambassador to address the MPs in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6067	You're bringing the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6068	I'm done. Article 74. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly strictly define who and under what conditions may participate in the work of any congregation committee. So, I think it's a shame to threaten the MPs with sanctions, security checks, fines, by putting out because we insist on respecting the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6069	I understand, colleague Sarovic. As far as these last remarks are concerned, as chairman, I can only take care of what's going on in this room, and what MPs are saying at their press conferences can't really. (Nemnja Sarovic, from the post: This was in the hall for Obradovic. I would like to appeal to the MPs that in some of their future exhibitions they take care not to present the facts and details of the private life of the person under discussion, and especially not of their close relatives. This happened when, I say, the lack of this Rules of Procedure was that at the moment the agenda and the timetable of the acts being placed on the agenda were very narrowed down to the ability of the chairman to stop the MP in his reasoning. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day? Yeah. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Marjan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6070	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, you have just recently injured Article 103 of Position 4 and with this regard I am advocating position 7 and 8. Given that the advertising of the previous colleague's Rules of Procedure had little to do with the presentation of the previous speaker, I do not insist on that, but it would be good to apply the provisions of Articles 7 and 8 of this article and to reject the time spent in such a kind of advertising by the Rules of Procedure from the time of the parliamentary group. 'Cause, like Davenport, what kind of coppers, I don't know what the Rules of Procedure is advertised on here anymore. I don't see any previous speaker talking about it. That's one thing. Number two, the advertising of the Rules of Procedure should take up to two minutes. Longest to two minutes. It lasted two minutes and 30 seconds. Here, I will not insist that you refuse those 30 seconds, because it is the opposition, but that in the future you take care if I overstep or someone else oversteps the time from our side, take it and compensate, refuse from our MPs' groups, and if this is repeated a little more often, only in that situation to include it to them. I do not ask that this vote, just so that our viewers know that the advertising of the Rules of Procedures that followed here was not exactly in line with the Rules of Procedure, as well as the advertising of Mr Balša Bozovic, who returned from the United States, from the elections, so it is not clear to him our Rules of Procedure. The Americans when they saw who came to support Hillary Clinton, they knew who they weren't supposed to vote for. Bon appétit.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6071	Since you said you didn't want the Assembly to declare itself in the day of voting on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I also don't think I have a duty to give you an explanation. A colleague of Sarovic's?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6072	Article 27, Mr. Arsic, works cleanly for the public, since Mr. Risticevic is obviously not familiar with the whole situation. So, in line with Article 103, I asked for a word, immediately after the completion of Ms. Marinika Tepic's presentation, but Maja Gojkovic, who at that time chaired, told me that the practice of not giving the word after the injury to the Rules of Procedure during the discussion of the proposal for an extension of the agenda and that she would give me the word when it was over. Now that it's over and you're done taking a break, I got my word. Therefore, it is not about any abuse by the opposition, but we have acted in accordance with the presidency's instructions. Now you, Mr. Marjan Risticevic, are always welcome to report to the Rules of Procedure, we will never ask for your time, we will never ask for your warnings. You, of course, have your democratic right to repeat the mistakes repeated by your predecessors. Believe me, regardless of what we are consistently against punishing the MPs, that we have never been afraid of punishment and that we have always looked forward to being punished, because we know that with every next sentence and the end of your regime, at least one step closer.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6073	Mr. Sarovic, you're on your way to the replica. I ask the parliamentary groups that if they have not submitted their application for the word, with a order of MPs, they will do so immediately. According to Article 157(2), I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a common principle search on: Proposal for a Law on the Prevention of Domestic Violence; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Code; Proposal for a Law on the Organisation of the Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the Prevention of Organized Crime, Terrorism and Corruption and Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Abuse of Property stemming from a criminal offence. Does the proposing representative, Nela Kuburovic, the minister of justice, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6074	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Proposal for a Law on the Prevention of Domestic Violence, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Code, Proposal for a Law on the Organisation of the Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the Prevention of Organized Crime, Terrorism and Corruption, and Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the confiscation of property arising from a criminal offence, have been prepared following a detailed analysis of the existing normative and factual situation. Of course, the outcome of the analysis points to the need to develop new legal projects that would strengthen the normative reaction of society and state. Working groups consisted of representatives of judges of all courts and public prosecutors, professors of law school, lawyers and civil society were established. Work versions were led by a months-long public debate and all interested parties had the opportunity to declare and correct them. All four draft laws make up one whole. The solution in one proposal is based on solutions from others and makes unity with them. This creates a system that is acquired in an even stronger and more effective way to combat organised crime, terrorism and corruption and a system that serves to prevent domestic violence. This violence, unfortunately, has led us to a situation where none of the citizens, through state authorities, or both the Government and the National Assembly, have the right to remain silent and to respond urgently, both by means of repression and by measures of prevention, social policy, psychology. In one word, the condition to deal with this social anomaly is a multidisciplinary approach to it. The law is only one, the truth very way to combat domestic violence. The existing legal framework in Serbia provides protection to victims of domestic violence by applying the Criminal Code and Family Law, but lacking. The criminal code solves the problems of violence only when violence has already been committed and when there is a crime and a reason for turning into a perpetrator of violence. The detention here is a way of protecting the victims of violence, separating the victims from the factors of violence, preventing the recurrence of violence, and giving the victim some time to think about everything and make sometimes very important life decisions. However, difficulties arise when violence occurs or threatens to repeat it, and there is no legal basis for determining detention and removal from the scene of violence in the factor of violence. Even greater difficulties arise when violence does not occur, but threatens the immediate danger of it. Since there is no crime, there is no reason to detain a potential perpetrator and thus prevent an accident that can follow. On the other hand, the way of protection provides for the Family Law involves suing and conducting a special litigation procedure, and the speed of protection of the victim depends on the adoption of provisional measures. Besides, there is a law on preventing domestic violence. The law overrides a vacuum that exists from reporting dangers from violence to the start of litigation or criminal proceedings against the perpetrator of violence. Right in that vacuum, the victim is at risk of repeated violence or his escalation. This law introduces into our reality the principle that a perpetrator of violence must not remain together with the victim whenever there is a direct danger of violence. The continuity of the protection of victims of violence is established until the time when it will be able to recover and the bully bears responsibility. Therefore, the responsibility of the bully and the protection of the victim shift backwards. Before the fact of the criminal proceedings or the protection procedure provided for in the Family Law takes place. However, the law does not apply to minors of domestic violence, since the responsibility and sanctions that can be imposed on them are governed by other laws such as the Law on juvenile offenders and the criminal protection of minors, the Law on Infringements and Family Law. Also, emergency measures are not suitable for minors because of their age and legal status. The purpose of the law is to prevent violence whenever there is a direct threat to it but also to help the victim of violence. The functioning of national authorities and other bodies, organisations and institutions shall be prescribed. The reaction to violence consists not only of limiting the right to commit violence but of a series of psychological and social procedures and methods. It is true that the reaction is primarily meant to express urgent measures to the perpetrator of violence that restrict his rights in favour of the protection of the victim of violence. Emergency measures prevent repeated violence or the ability to reach it for the first time. In addition to the urgent measures affecting the perpetrators, however, the authorities and institutions that care for the protection of victims of violence and provide different forms of support for victims start with notification of her rights, her position by providing legal assistance to social and psychological procedures whose purpose is to take a breath, raise and stand alone, begin to look differently at the world and change the way of life. The content of the law, therefore, consists of action towards the perpetrator, but the same is true of action towards the victim, which is viewed in the protection and support of the victim. This also serves individual plans for protection and support of the law-imposed victims. But when these types of functions are viewed from sociological rather than strictly legal perspectives, their interdependence and persuasion are observed. Such depravation of certain rights prevents the perpetrator of violence from continuing to commit violence and protect the victim. At the same time, the protection of the victims prevents the possibility of violence. The law also determines the meaning of the concept of preventing domestic violence. The prevention of domestic violence is defined as a set of measures to reveal whether it threatens the immediate danger of domestic violence and a set of measures to be applied if the immediate danger of violence is detected. In reality, a direct threat to violence can occur in three cases – firstly, when a possible perpetrator has never committed violence, but threatens him, then, when a possible perpetrator has committed violence before and threatens to repeat it, say, committed violence a year ago, and lately acts as if he intends to repeat it, and finally, a direct threat to violence exists when the perpetrator commits violence immediately before the actions of police and other organs, and is expected to repeat violence soon. In all three cases, it is estimated whether there is a direct danger of violence, consisting either in the danger of violence being committed for the first time or that violence is repeated. The immediate danger is determined by the behaviour of the possible perpetrator and other circumstances, and there is when it is established that the possible perpetrator is ready to commit violence or repeat violence directly in the time ahead. The concept of domestic violence is broader than that of the Family Law. In addition to physical, psychological and sexual violence, economic violence was introduced in accordance with Article 3. The Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating Violence against Women and Violence in the Family, adopted in Istanbul on 11 May 2011, which the Republic of Serbia signed in April 2012 and ratified in the National Assembly in October 2013 and entered into force on 1 August 2014. The institutional pillar on which the law from which it all starts continues to be a branch is a police officer to prevent domestic violence. He's a specially trained coordinator who needs to prevent violence and take care of the victim's protection. But to prevent violence, he has to know about it. Therefore, the duty of all to report violence or immediate danger to the police or to the public prosecutor. The duty to report violence is burdened by all state authorities, organisations and institutions. The obligation of state authorities and centres for social work has also been extended to recognise domestic violence and the dangers of it, but within their regular jobs. Recognition of violence is not special from other businesses a separate procedure, but takes place through some other procedure. For example, a doctor provides medical protection to victims of violence, along with medical protection, is obliged to recognise violence and inform the police. The concept of recognition does not refer to the perception of physical properties that point to violence, but to the recognition of the phenomenon of violence at all. It is possible, and when a police officer reads a report of violence and has no contact with the victim, he does not see or hear it, but from studying the application he reveals, he recognizes that it is domestic violence. Therefore, it all begins with a report of violence or a direct threat to him. The rule is that after receiving the application, a police officer comes out on the spot, with the aim of applying preventive operational measures and collecting evidence, they can bring a possible perpetrator to a police station and keep him there. The purpose of the detention is also to enable the conduct of proceedings against the possible perpetrator and to give the victim an indirect rest. Duration and retention are limited to no more than eight hours. After learning about domestic violence or the dangers of it, the competent official assesses the risk of immediate danger to violence. During the risk assessment, care shall be taken of the essential facts which, for example, are mentioned in the law, whether the possible perpetrator has committed violence earlier or shortly before the risk assessment, whether he is willing to repeat it, whether he has threatened murder or suicide, whether he owns a weapon, whether he is mentally ill or abuses a psychoactive substance, whether there is a conflict over the custody of a child or about how to maintain a child's personal relationship with a parent who is a possible perpetrator, whether an emergency measure is given to prevent domestic violence or a measure of protection against domestic violence under Family Law, whether the victim is afraid and how it assesses the risk of violence. Before completing the risk assessment, it may request the opinion of the Social Labour Centre, the circumstances of the centre's competence, which are relevant for the risk assessment. The risk assessment made up of a competent police officer is the basis for further activation of other participants in the prevention of violence and protection and support of the victim. If it finds that the immediate danger of domestic violence exists, the competent police officer is obliged to deliver all the information he has collected and his risk assessment to the primary public prosecutor, the social work centre and the coordination and co-operation group. Fulfilling this obligation creates a legal link and co-operation between different actors in preventing violence and protecting and supporting victims, creating new obligations on the way to the ultimate disposal of victims and removing the consequences of violence or dangers from them. This includes others who can and must help. Finally, the police officer has a third option. If he determines the immediate danger of violence and provides the possibility of the perpetrator who was brought to the police station to plead out the circumstances of the case, he is obliged to give the bully an emergency measure to prevent domestic violence. Two emergency measures are foreseen: the distance of the perpetrator of violence from the apartment and the ban on the perpetrator of violence to contact the victim and approach it. Emergency measures may take 48 hours, no shorter, no longer, and their purpose is to currently solve the problem, separate and distinguish the victim and the perpetrator and prevent further extermination of the conflict and the more difficult consequences of the victim. They can be accumulated by making the unsub stay away from the apartment he lives in, but he will be forbidden to contact and approach the victim. If the victim and the unsub don't live together, it's only possible to state a measure of non-competition of contact with the victim and approach to the victim. The emergency measure shall be expressed in the form of orders as an individual act. The order is given to the perpetrator, and if he refuses reception, the competent police officer shall draw up a note on what is deemed to be the order. The moment of the handover is so important that it starts to run out of time to which the emergency measure is imposed, but also a deadline within which the primary public prosecutor has the right to submit a proposal for an extension of the emergency measure. Just as in his assessment of the risks he identified as a direct threat to violence, he informs the primary prosecutor, the Social Work Centre and the Co-operation and Co-operation Group, the competent police officer informs them that he has said an emergency measure. The chief public prosecutor decides whether he will propose that the duration of the emergency measure be extended by another 30 days. The proposal to extend the emergency measure can be submitted within 24 hours when an order from the competent police officer containing an emergency measure has been handed over. Otherwise, it is considered not to have proposed an extension of the measure. Previously, he studies information about domestic violence or the dangers of it and values the risk assessment he has made and supplied to a competent police officer. Valuation means that the primary public prosecutor gets his impression of whether there is a direct danger of violence, that his impression is not only a reflection of the impression of a police officer in charge. The primary public prosecutor may, regardless of the evidence collected by the police officer responsible, collect evidence that is important to his assessment. Since the extension of the emergency measures longer limits the right of the perpetrator from 48 hours to 30 days. the decision to extend the emergency measure shall be governed by the basic court in whose territory the residence or residence of the victim is located. The Court of Justice extends the duration of the emergency measure if, after its own risk assessment, including an evaluation of the risk made up by the competent police officer and the evaluations stemming from the primary public prosecutor, it becomes confident that after 48 hours, there is a direct threat to domestic violence. A positive court ruling gives the victim additional time to recover and arrange further life as parallel to the duration of extended emergency measures and measures to support victims of violence. The main public prosecutor's proposal shall be decided by the basic court within 24 hours of the receipt of the proposal and without holding the hearing. The law seeks to end insufficiently coordinated co-operation between authorities and institutions that prevent domestic violence and provide protection and support to victims, but insufficiently coordinated actions by these bodies and institutions and other bodies and organisations and individuals helping to provide and protect and support victims. A multi-resor co-operation obligation is foreseen, the purpose of which is to overcome isolated and from other factors independent access to violence. It is necessary that all those involved in the prevention of domestic violence and the protection of victims and the provision of support for victims of violence be united in their efforts, complement each other and create a synthetic and powerful and common response to domestic violence. In addition, the aim of this law is to organise in a universally unique manner the organisation and conduct of state authorities and institutions, thereby enabling effective prevention of domestic violence and rapid, timely and effective protection and support of victims of domestic violence. State authorities and institutions responsible for preventing violence and providing protection and support to victims have been designated. It is about police and public prosecutors, courts of general jurisdiction, misdemeanor courts and centres for social work. Police prevent violence and provide protection to victims, the Public Prosecutor's Office participates in preventing violence, but also leads to a group of co-ordination and co-operation, whose role is, above all, to provide protection and support to victims of violence, courts lead to cases stemming from preventing domestic violence, and social work centres help prevent violence and support victims of violence. In addition to them, assistance in preventing violence, support for victims is given primarily by other institutions in social policy institutions, social protection, health care, education, education. Support for victims of violence can also be provided by other legal persons, associations and individuals, which is an expression of intensive co-operation, as well as an idea that permeates the entire law. In the police administration, the primary and senior public prosecutor's office, the primary and senior court and the social work centre is appointed a person for a relationship, whose duty is to exchange daily information and information important to prevent violence, prosecution and prosecution for crimes related to domestic violence and to provide protection and support to victims of violence. In the middle, there is also an instrument that should enable daily communication, learning about problems, data exchanges that are important for the prevention of violence, even the mobility of police, courts and public prosecutors. The particularly important expression of social synthesis in the fight against domestic violence is groups of coordination and co-operation. They are common bodies whose work is attended by public prosecutors, police and social work centres. There are as many co-ordination and co-operation groups as there are basic public prosecutors. So that within the group, both a competent police officer and a deputy public prosecutor, who has proposed an extension of the emergency measure and who may already be conducting criminal proceedings against the perpetrator of violence, can act together. As can be seen, in addition to the requirements of competence, the requirement for a good understanding of the circumstances of a specific case has been met. The coordination and co-operation group shall meet at least once every 15 days and draw up a record of each meeting. The purpose of these minutes is to determine precisely the responsibility for not taking the necessary measures or not being taken in a timely manner. Group meetings may be attended, where appropriate, by representatives of legal entities, associations, individuals involved in providing protection to victims. Each group discusses any case of domestic violence that is not ended by a judicial decision made in civil or criminal proceedings, cases where it is necessary to provide protection and support to victims of domestic violence and victims of criminal offences under this law, develops an individual plan of protection and support for the victim and proposes public prosecution measures to end court proceedings. Police and public prosecutors' co-operation and social work centres within the co-ordination and co-operation group must not result only in proper guidance of violence cases towards criminal or civil proceedings. So, towards repression, it must already result in an analysis of the causes of violence or the danger of violence in the environment in which the group acts and, accordingly, design, the application of measures to help potential victims of violence and eliminate possible causes of violence. The essence and essence of the work of the coordination and co-operation group consists of the development of an individual plan of protection and support for the victims of domestic violence. This occurs when violence has already occurred or threatens the immediate danger of it. The individual plan to protect and support the victim is one of the three most important components of the law. The purpose of the law is not only to prevent the direct threat of violence by the police, the public prosecutor's office and the courts, as well as to mark the state and other authorities responsible for the application of the law, but also to act on the victim of violence and help her recover, restore confidence, find her different identity and permanently solve the problems in which she was found. The task of the coordination and co-operation group is to draw up an individual plan for the protection and support of the victim and has arisen from the moment the competent police officer receives an assessment establishing a direct threat to violence. It does not matter whether or not emergency measures have been imposed on the perpetrator. The purpose of the individual plan of protection and support is to provide the victim with protection, but also material, psycho-social and other support. The plan is as individual as it is personalized, as it relates to a specific victim, to a particular biography, to specific circumstances where the victim is exposed to violence and to a specific perpetrator of violence. The security measures contained in the individual plan must be appropriate to provide the victim with security, to stop violence, to prevent it from repeating itself and to protect the rights of the victim, and to support the possibility of providing psychosocial and other assistance that serves its recovery, empowerment and isolation. The victim can participate in the creation of an individual plan, if that's what she wants and if it allows her psychological and emotional state. Her participation is good from the point of view of empowering the victim, raising confidence and establishing control over his own life. The individual plan specifically determines the perpetrators of each measure and the deadlines for taking measures to avoid passiveity or multi-jurisdiction, and prevents them from measuring the undertaking when they no longer have any meaning or lose full effect. The individual plan, finally, contains a plan to monitor the measures taken and assess the effectiveness of the measures planned and taken. It is understood that the individual plan for the protection and support of the victim may be one or more times changed depending on its effect or change in the position of the victim and the perpetrator of violence. The law applies to certain crimes, but not in general. Part of the law governing the co-operation and coordination of state authorities and institutions and part of the law governing the support of victims of violence, in particular the establishment of individual plans for the protection and support of victims, is also applied in criminal proceedings against the perpetrator of criminal acts of persecution, whose introduction provides for the amendment and addition of the Criminal Code, then against the perpetrator of sexual acts against sexual freedom, the perpetrator of crimes against marriage and the family, the perpetrator of a criminal act of trafficking in human beings, but also in criminal proceedings against all other crimes committed by domestic violence. It is not applicable, therefore, only that part of the law that provides for an analysis of the risk of violence and the protraction and extension of emergency measures. In return, it is foreseen that the criminal proceedings, which are being conducted for the criminal offences mentioned, are in the court's duty to decide within 24 hours on a proposal by the Public Prosecutor to set a ban on the entry, meeting or communication with a particular person and to visit certain places, the measures to prohibit leaving the residence and the measures to prohibit leaving the apartment. The measures under consideration are laid down in the Code of Criminal Procedure, but no time limit is set for the court to decide on them. It is now scheduled for a 24-hour period of acceptance of the public prosecutor's proposal. There will be records of cases of domestic violence. Police administrations, primary courts, primary public prosecutors and social work centres will keep records of those segments of domestic violence available to them. The purpose of the records is to enable competent authorities to access data relevant to the handling and decision-making of decisions. Such records are one of the conditions of a successful risk assessment of the immediate danger of domestic violence and the proposing and extension of emergency measures. The central records will be kept in the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office and will serve to strengthen the necessary co-operation and coordination. The adoption of this law cannot eradicate domestic violence. The roots of domestic violence are deep and its eradication takes a long time, followed by a series of social, cultural, psychological, but also legal measures, but this does not mean that by timely reporting violence or danger to it and by following different forms of reaction from the state and society cannot prevent violence, its repetition or tragic outcomes. If the roots of domestic violence are deep and hard to eradicate, it does not mean that nothing can be done to prevent acts of violence, eliminate and facilitate their consequences and help and support victims of violence. The complexity of one problem is no one's excuse to not begin to solve the problem, at least at the point in which solving the problem is possible. That's what the Family Violation Prevention Act is for. The bill before you contains, when it comes to amendments and additions to the Criminal Code, only the most urgent and necessary changes. Work on amendments to the Laws is soon to continue and new ones will follow. The reform of our material criminal legislation is gradual, consisting not of one but of a series of reform steps. This takes care of the absorption power of our judiciary and of our lawyerry and the indisputable need for the amendments to the law to be gradually introduced into life and thus to our legal and social reality. We are about to bring our legislation into line, not only with documents, but also with standards that apply in some of the laws of the European countries, which is a complex and difficult job that requires caution, thoughtfulness and phasing out. Similarly, we are looking at the standards and acts of the Council of Europe and the UN, which are yet to be incorporated into our criminal law. The law therefore restricts to a number of partial changes which are essentially linked and concern the same areas of criminal law and related issues. Such a method has become common today in the legislative practice of European countries, hence at the pace of changes, solutions and other characteristics, the criminal legislation of the Republic of Serbia does not lag behind most European countries. The amendments were first made in the general section of the Criminal Code and concern the institutes of small importance, parole and fines. The reason for the changes is that the norms of the applicable Code are not sufficiently precise, which is why they are not applied in court practice as expected. The most important changes in a particular part of the Code consist of amendments to the provisions that make up one group of criminal acts and these are crimes against the economy. True, in the middle, there are areas of material criminal law that have been changed during the last amendments and additions to the law, but so that certain institutes that do not help the case-law to adapt to emerging economic opportunities are detained. Now it's possible. In addition, criminal acts against the economy are arranged differently. Significant newspapers within the special section of the Code are seen in the alignment of our criminal legislation with the already mentioned Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating Violence against Women and Violence in the Family. This results in the complementarity of the law on preventing domestic violence, which also contains a number of norms inspired by the Istanbul Conference and the Criminal Code, which envisions new crimes that suppresses violence against women and domestic violence. In crimes against the economy, the system was first changed. Their order is grouped, now based first of all, on the interrelationship of the work. There are 29 crimes against the economy, five more than the applicable Criminal Code, seven crimes are new, one of which is so much new that it has been transferred from the property act against the economy, and it is about fraud and insurance and decriminalization of two parts. In some parts, their legal description changes, but others do not change their order and place within the Law’s Head, which regulates the crime against the economy. Thus, in a criminal offence, abuse of the position of the responsible person, alters and precises the legal description, since the applicable legal description did not remove any doubt in court practice, gives up the responsible person as the perpetrator, which seems to be in almost all crimes against the economy. Instead, the so-called so-called "supervised" is predicted. Legal subsidiarity. This means that a crime of abuse of the position of the responsible person exists only if the elements of another crime are not achieved and that its perpetrator may be anyone, not just a responsible person. Complete abandonment of the crime of abuse of a responsible person's criminal position without his previous replacement to some new and narrow work that would have been a more precise legal description, at this point would be too risky a move that is not certain to have a real basis and justification. The new solution only limits its application to cases where it is really necessary, i.e. Only if no other crime scene can protect the business system. In addition to reviewing existing crimes against the economy, some new ones have been introduced. There are new crimes of fraud in the pursuit of economic activity, abuse of trust in the pursuit of economic activity and abuse in the privatisation process. While the first two crimes are known as general crimes against property to be applied in the future in the area of economy, the third is quite new and incriminate abuses in the privatisation process that have been observed so far. The regulation of this work was also influenced by judicial practice. The fraud and abuse of trust are in the applicable code of criminal acts against property, and embezzlement, bribery, and criminal acts against official duty. However, they are modified and encouraged by economic relations in this law, and new acts are foreseen whenever fraud, abuse of trust, embezzlement and bribery are committed in carrying out economic activity. This expands the possibilities for a better criminal legal reaction in the domain of the economy. In addition, cases of fraud, abuse of trust, embezzlement and bribery are clearly separated and when in the private sector. As the legal description of several crimes against the economy is stated, it has been significantly changed. The change occurred only in some parts as a result of the change in which the perpetrator of the crimes against the economy can be not only a responsible person, but every person who performs the shop and the other mark of the crime. Some crimes have identified problems, resulting in their more rare application. Therefore, their legal descriptions have been changed, which, apart from more proper application of criminal law, would also mean narrowing the application of the criminal act to the abuse of the position of the responsible person. Finally, a significant change is the decriminalization of two crimes against the economy. The first is the abuse of power in the economy, and the second issue is waiting for the use of payment cards without cover. The banks are at the disposal of technical and organisational opportunities which can prevent the use of credit and debit cards without cover, which means that other types of sanctions are possible, so criminal legal protection is no longer necessary. Adherence to the Istanbul Convention introduces new crimes, mutilation of the female sex organ, persecution, full harassment, and coercion of marriage. When it comes to the criminal act of persecution, it is not only about the obligations stemming from the Istanbul Convention, but also about important criminal political arguments. It's about behavior that can seriously endanger the victim's psychic integrity, which is directed against fundamental rights and human freedom. Comparing legal experience points to certain problems when prescribing this crime and its application in practice. We therefore had a very serious approach to prescribing a legal criminal act of persecution, so that what is more precise would be eliminated in advance by the dilemmas or misunderstandings observed in parallel law. The relevant members of the Criminal Code which provide for criminal acts to take away a minor and change the family status have been amended and amended. This extended the criminal protection of newborn children, so that everyone suspected of being responsible for the disappearance of babies from the maternity home could be prosecuted in the future, which is also a problem before the Strasbourg court. The important news is also to introduce a new criminal offence, a violation of a security-based ban. The aim of the introduction of this crime is to provide for sanctions for the violation of the prohibition contained in certain security measures. In some security measures, there are no sanctions for violating certain prohibitions. On the other hand, in the case of violations of other restrictive measures, there is a sanction to be examined only in that the court may call off a conditional conviction if the convicted violates the prohibition by means of a security measure. So there is also a need for a new criminal act in cases where the security measure is not pronounced under probation. Crimes have also been amended to produce and obtain weapons from funds intended for the execution of a criminal offence, as well as illicit production, holding, carrying and transport of weapons and explosive substances. Those crimes are in line with the new Arms and Ammunition Act, and the penalties for them have been tightened, precisely because of the increase in serious crimes committed by the use of prohibited or illegal weapons. Finally, punishments for criminal acts are also tightened for the illegal crossing of the state border and smuggling of people. Unauthorized border crossings and human trafficking have been very common since the beginning of the migrant crisis. The goal of tightening the sentence is to prevent the exploitation of human migrants' accidents. Finally, the draft law also contains other amendments and additions to existing criminal offences resulting from the need to comply with relevant international documents. Serbia was the first law to organise state authorities in the fight against organised crime in 2002. It has often been changed and complemented, but its essence has not been improved. It remained the same without tracking new directions and ways to combat organised crime. At the time when the law was passed, it was a big step for our country, because the first time specialization was introduced at the level of police, the public prosecutor's office and the court for this form of crime. In addition to the specialisation introduced, these specialised bodies are also authorised by specific investigative techniques. Today's current law has been overcome, without being able to meet the modern needs of fighting organised crime, corruption and terrorism. The adoption of a new law is also an act of applying the Action Plan for Chapter 23 and Chapter 24, and the application of the Strategy - a financial crime investigation adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in May 2015. The new law is also a necessary condition for the application of amendments and additions to the Criminal Code on the agenda of this assembly session. New complicated amendments to the Criminal Code cannot have their effect without a special organisation of judicial and police authorities. The law addresses all issues of organisational character necessary for the effective fight against organised crime, financial crime, economic crime, crime against official duty and corruption and terrorism. The new law regulates all advanced tools, techniques to fight organised crime, corruption and terrorism, a new internal organisation of police, public prosecutors, courts, a way of co-operation between the police and the public prosecutor's office and other state bodies, liaison officers, strike groups, as well as financial forensics. Article 2 of the Law sets out the criminal offences to which the law is applied, and it is necessary to pay attention that the names of criminal offences and the number of members of the criminal offences under the Criminal Code are in line with the text of the Bill on Amendments and Retreadments of the Criminal Code. So many are inter-conditional. It is therefore evident that the circle of criminal acts that will be in the jurisdiction of the authorities applying this law will be much broader. With the narrow scope of the crimes listed in the current public prosecutor's law, both hands are tied to proactive actions and to the conduct of essential and deep investigations. Article 4 of the law prescribed a round of state authorities responsible for handling cases of organised crime and terrorism listed in Article 3, which are the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime, the Ministry of Interior, the Organizational Unit responsible for the control of organised crime, the Special Court of Police in Belgrade for Organized Crime, the Special Department of the Court of Appeal in Belgrade for Organized Crime, as well as the Special Detention Unit of the District Penitentiary in Belgrade. Article 3 of the Law provides for criminal offences committed by state authorities to combat organised crime and terrorism, and these are primarily criminal offences under Articles 1, 2 and 5 of the Law. When it comes to the conduct of the national authorities responsible for the control of organised crime in respect of criminal offences against official duty, the decision to establish jurisdiction is subjective and concerns the properties of the perpetrators, i.e. it is necessary to refer to the elected, appointed or appointed person, while criminal acts against the business are prescribed by a determining condition of objective character relating to the transfer of the property censorship. For the benefit achieved, the value of over 200 million dinars, or over 800 million dinars, is relevant when it comes to the value of public procurement. The current law generates a problem in the prosecution and trial for the crimes of corruption, crimes against incarceration and crimes against official duty. The jurisdiction of the primary and senior public prosecutors has been dissociated and is mainly based on the prescribed penalty of the law. So today, the largest number of these crimes is in the jurisdiction of the primary courts, i.e. the main public prosecutors. It is not possible to concentrate knowledge and best human and material resources in one place, and therefore it is not possible to achieve proactive treatment and specialisation. Now this systemic error is corrected by organising five major public-securitism centres for prosecution, the crime of organised crime, terrorism and corruption. Criminal acts under Article 2 of the Law deal with special departments of senior public prosecutors for the control of corruption, the MUP, the Organizational Unit responsible for the control of corruption and the Special Department of Higher Courts for the control of corruption. Therefore, four centres are established in the form of special departments of senior prosecutors in the territory of four appeals public prosecutors, i.e. special departments of senior prosecutors in Belgrade, Kralje, Nis and Novi Sad for the control of corruption. Article 13 of the new law provides for the first time full specialisation in criminal acts that are corrupt. Prosecutors from those regional centres are now handling such cases. Organized crime and terrorism deals exclusively with the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime. It's also chasing the so-called. High corruption. The prosecutor's office for organised crime acts before the Special Court in Belgrade. All other corrupt objects are being prosecuted at four regional centres in Belgrade, the King, Nis and Novi Sad. The special departments of senior prosecutors should act in front of special courts in Belgrade, the King, Nis and Novi Sad, as the Prosecutor's Office of Organized Crime is acting before the Special Court in Belgrade. One of the pillars and newspapers of this law is a set of organisational measures that will contribute to the improved co-operation of the state authorities responsible for the application of the law and who work closely with them. To detect organised crime and corruption, police and the public prosecutor's office play a key role, with a large number of other government authorities in daily work coming into contact with the fact that they are relevant for the investigations of organised crime and corruption. The lack of co-operation and exchange of information between state authorities which may be in possession of facts relevant to the conduct and course of the investigation on the other hand shall be maintained on the effectiveness of the detection and prosecution of perpetrators of criminal offences. Hence, because of lack of co-operation between state authorities, it is not possible to pro-actively approach both the police and the public prosecutor's office, as well as other state authorities. Therefore, in all state bodies, whose responsibility is to come into contact with facts related to organised crime and corruption, which may be evidence in criminal proceedings or lead to evidence, the liaison officers with the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Police shall determine. Liaison officers should share their knowledge, skills, experience and expertise, participate, as necessary, in the work of that state body to which they are addressed. The liaison officer shall represent a bridge between the state authority from which it comes and the authority referred. The liaison officer allows two authorities to further identify how they can cooperate and speed up the exchange of information. The most complex cases of organised crime require the highest degree of co-operation and all state authorities with the police and public prosecutors to ensure effective management of investigations and prosecution. That is why a new law has made available to the public prosecutor one of the most powerful tools for learning and crossing information, which is the task force. When the case is very complex and requires the permanent presence of officials of several state authorities and a multidisciplinary approach by a public prosecutor in such a complex case, ad hoc could form a task force. It is a multidisciplinary expert group run by a public prosecutor, whose members are police officers, officials of other state authorities, depending on the need for a specific case. Organized crime and corruption are being brought forward through the incorrect financial reporting of companies, bribery of people in charge of the availability of public funds in order to obtain more favourable contracts, incorrect tax reporting, embezzlement and deliveries of inadequate goods, tax evasion, bankruptcy in connection with bankruptcy, misuse of public procurement, privatisation, as well as money laundering, creation of secret funds and financing of terrorism. It is about extremely complicated financial transactions where the knowledge and skills of the public prosecutor's office are not enough for effective prosecution. Let us not forget that public prosecutors are graduate lawyers and in order to solve such complicated cases should overnight turn into top economists, which is not possible, and therefore it is necessary to employ financial forensics in the public prosecutor's office who have the ability to identify the crime from a financial aspect. A financial forensic scientist helps a public prosecutor to answer the following questions, which, due to the complexity of the case, the public prosecutor cannot always give an answer, a description of the definition of the actions of committing a criminal offence, the detection and designation of the perpetrator, the discovery of the place and the time of execution of the crime and the extent of the damage and the amount of the acquisition of the property benefit arising from the crime. It is clear that it is precisely the questions to which the criminal proceedings are being answered, but that the police and the public prosecutor's office, due to lack of knowledge from the economy, cannot answer them. Therefore, financial forensics find evidence of financial nature and assists the public prosecutor and police to direct the financial investigation and collect as much evidence as possible for the indictment. The training program, written for the application of this law, has been marked by a comprehensive approach. All public prosecutors and judges acting in criminal cases of financial crime and corruption must undergo training provided for in the future programme adopted by the Judicial Academy. Knowledge is what defeats organized crime and corruption. A well-organised and trained judiciary with a high degree of integrity can and must deliver results in the fight against organised crime and corruption. The Institute for the confiscation of property arising from a criminal offence is one of the key elements which achieves the purpose of criminal law. It is a special and general prevention of criminal activity. It is about the best preventive mechanism that demotes the current and potential perpetrators of criminal acts, especially works of luxurial nature, and which best meets the principle of material criminal law that no one can benefit from the execution of the crime. Many modern criminal laws, the following solutions from international documents, have introduced so-called. an extended confiscation of property arising from a criminal offence as one of the most effective instruments available by the rule of law in the fight against organised crime, corruption, money laundering and terrorist financing. In 2008, the Republic of Serbia passed a law on the confiscation of property stemming from a criminal offence, which was replaced in 2013, by the applicable Law, on which amendments and additions will be discussed today. I'll brief you on the information available by the Department for the Management of Disposal of Assets within the Department of Justice. They paint the importance of applying this anti-crime law. Some 30 different immovableities, 850,000 euros, about 47kg of pure gold poured into gold bars and a number of valuables were permanently taken away. When it comes to temporarily seized property and immovable property, the Management Directorate has 76 houses, 252 apartments, one business building, one collective apartment building and seven residential buildings, one sports hall, 124 bars, 77 garages, seven apartments, 49 hectares of land. Then, besides moving things, there are 372 cars, 12 motorcycles, one ice-truck, eight trailer trucks, 12 trucks, one boat, one raft, two tractors, two and a half kilos of jewelry, 29 art paintings, and when it comes to companies, 54 companies, four hotels, six restaurants and one bus station were temporarily taken away. When it comes to money, 87m dinars and 12,630,000 euros were taken away. Since the issue of immovable property that has been temporarily taken away, the Abuse Property Management Directorate has realised a monthly income of around 80,000 euros in dinar equivalent. In order to make the applicable law on the confiscation of property even more effective, its amendments and additions are proposed. They can split into four groups. First, there is an extended circle of criminal acts to which the law applies. In the future, it is also considered a crime of serious murder committed in robbery or robbery theft or out of prowess, as well as criminal acts against intellectual property. It will also apply to heavy theft and insurance fraud and some crimes against the economy, unauthorized use of someone else's business name and other specific trade mark or service, bankruptcy and illicit trade. The concept of property is precise, since there are different interpretations of whether or not the share in the legal person is considered property. The possibility of confiscation of other assets of the same value is foreseen if the confiscation of assets arising from the offence is not possible. Secondly, the process of confiscation of property arising from a criminal offence has been amended. He should be more effective in the future. Police are obliged to provide information on the property of a suspect and a third party collected in the investigation procedure when a public prosecutor is charged with a criminal offence for which the law is applied. A period of 15 days shall be set in which the owner of the property against whom the request for temporary confiscation of the property is lodged may submit an answer to the request and provide evidence of how he has obtained the property legally. An objection has been lifted as a legal remedy for a court ruling on a request by the public prosecutor for temporary confiscation of property. It is not rationally the current solution, under which there are two legal remedies against the same solution of the court – objections and complaints. All that remains is an appeal, which is decided by a second-degree court. A deadline has been extended within which a public prosecutor can apply for the permanent confiscation of assets arising from a criminal offence from three to six months of the delivery of a convicted judicial verdict. This led to the meeting of the requirements of practice, public prosecutors need a longer period of time to collect all the evidence necessary for the court's decision on a request for permanent confiscation of property. Third, the Financial Investigation Unit and the Deprived Property Management Directorate are adding some responsibilities in carrying out international co-operation operations. This is about meeting the obligations set out in the Action Plan for Chapter 24. It is foreseen that the Financial Investigation Unit shall educate the Property Recovery Office, which shall process the received and sent requests within the framework of international co-operation and with regard to the detection and identification of assets arising from the criminal offence and with the aim of temporary or permanent confiscation. It is prescribed that the Directorate for the Management of Disposal of Assets be competent to manage assets which are limited in accordance with UN decisions and other international organisations whose Republic of Serbia is a member. Fourthly, the rules on the management of the seized property have been specified, the powers of the Directorate for the conclusion of the contract on the lease of the temporarily seized immovable property to which it manages have been specified. In addition, for the purposes of overcoming the problem in the application of the law, the powers of the Directorate in the event of termination of the lease contract have been suspended, with the obligation of the Directorate being lifted to pay and interest in the event of the return of the money to the person who returns it. This solution is in line with comparable legal solutions in the laws of other countries. In doing so, the dissatisfied party may apply for compensation for damages to the Directorate or to an appeal to the court in accordance with the general rules of the bond law. The application of customs regulations to permanently confiscated mobile items has been excluded and has been authorised by the Government to determine the purpose of permanently seizing immovable property for the purpose of performing socially beneficial jobs. In line with the best practices of European countries and EU directives, it is prescribed that the funds obtained by the sale of the permanently confiscated assets of 30% are used to finance social and health needs, which is why the decision is made by the government. These are short changes and proposals proposed in the laws on the agenda today. I thank and hope that we will have a constructive debate, and the motion is certainly at our disposal that, if there is a basis for this, the texts of the proposed laws will be advanced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6075	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The People's Messenger, Natasha Micic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6076	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Madam Ministers, representatives of the ministry, two amendments and two new laws point to the fact that violence continues to escalate, that crime and corruption continue to flourish, and that the state is looking for solutions that would be implemented through its organs and institutions. What's common to all four proposals, and that's what's positive, is to raise efficiency in crime prevention, regardless of whether it's domestic violence or organised crime or corruption, the introduction of new crimes. The proposals also include better coordination, co-operation, further education conducted by the Judicial Academy and, of course, all these laws are actually due to compliance with European standards. So I can't help but mention at first that our constitution was far from in line with European standards, that last week we marked a decade of validity and that, of course, there was no solemn marking because there was only one collective euphoria from that time in which LDP, the League and part of the civil sector were not involved. I mention this because the opportunity for Serbia to become a civil society instead of a national state was then missed, and I would like to mention, in relation to these laws, that the chance to create conditions is missed, a legal framework for responsible and independent justice. It's the first obstacle to curbing crime and violence in this country. As for the first law, the Law on the Protection of Family Violence, of course, it is good to finally introduce these urgent measures, consisting of either a distance or a ban on accessing and communicating with the victim, the introduction of these specialised police officers, prosecutors, judges, better coordination, the Council is meeting once in 15 days at the local level, with the Government also forming a monitoring advice. Of course, the urgency of the procedure is also positive, the fact that family violence, or the obligation to keep records, is also prescribed. It is a good thing there is also criminal responsibility for persons in state and other non-violence authorities. However, it would be better if it were prescribed and disciplinary responsibility, that non-reporting of violence by state authorities was actually treated as a serious breach of the labour obligation and that is why we have submitted an amendment as a parliamentary group. Another mistake that the NGOs in the law itself have pointed to is the equalisation of these urgent measures, which are of course useful and the major shift and safeguard measures provided for by Family Law, which are more repressive and which provide for an unmatched longer period for obsolescence. However, of course not only more repressive measures are enough, that not only is the law enough, that violence, so violence, and in the family, affects the overall situation, starts with the economy, so poverty, unemployment, then the patriarchal model of life, but also one relationship, and it's not just daily politics. Here I point to another remark, which is that it is insufficiently represented in the law of the role and importance of the civil sector that might be valuable to us in these proceedings. Instead, unfortunately, a campaign against the civil sector is under way in the country that has been fighting for both tolerance and violence all these years. Today, we are actually witnessing how they are targeted and called foreign mercenaries, and that none of the government officials react or at least say that, let's say, the state of Serbia is also receiving assistance from the EU, or the largest grant of 3.5 billion euros in these 16 years, the country itself has received Serbia. There are some other bad messages. For example, the message that the police minister has no smarter work than to file criminal charges against Mrs Vesna Pesic over one text on a specific portal. That's not good. When we know that this violence is booming, that crime and corruption are booming, then the minister sends a bad message about what his priority is. His priority is to protect someone of personal interest. Furthermore, it is also alarming that some lawyers who have also stood out as civil Serbia fighters under strange circumstances, say, are canceling their doctorate because of some formal shortcomings, although we live in the era of some suspicious diplomas, and the man was the first president of the Anti-Corruption Council. So that's not good. As regards the law, I would like to say firstly that the aim of this law is also to agree with the Istanbul Convention, which was adopted in 2011, which our country signed in 2012, which we ratified in 2013, which began only in 2014, and we are now passing this law that begins to apply in June 2017, which means that from ratification to the application of the law they have been discussing for the past four years. Given the fact that only last year there were 35 women victims of violence, 35 women lost their lives only last year, and when we consider the fact that in the same year that 35 women lost their lives, the number of denied criminal charges for domestic violence is 51%, so more than half, and when we add to that the principle of opportunity, i.e. that prosecutors have the possibility of delaying the prosecution by imposing, let's say, payments for humanitarian purposes, then it is truly devastating that a total of 66% of the acts of domestic violence has not been processed at all. And so many women have lost their lives, we don't even have a record of femicidality, and I'm not talking about the fact that we absolutely don't know how many disabled women, as a result of domestic violence, have suffered damage. As far as the second law is concerned, therefore, the Criminal Code, of course, is good to specify the existing and introduce new crimes, both in the economy, such as fraud, embezzlement, abuse of representation, abuse of management, giving, taking bribes. For us, it is very important, for our parliamentary group, which is also a criminal offence for the denial of genocide, and somehow Mrs. Minister did not mention it in the interpretation of these laws, and in the media it remains rather unaccompanied, and I think it is very important for Serbia that should face its past. So the law also defines better and what corruption is, but when we talk about corruption, then it would be important to ask, and I also use Mrs. Minister's presence, and what it is and how far it has come with the Law of Origin of Assets. The law was often mentioned in election campaigns and ruling parties and some opposition parties, and the LDP insisted not on election campaigns, but on regular parliamentary procedures. I think it would be an important step to fight corruption. So, there are a lot of positive things that have been tightened the penalties for smuggling illegal production, traffic and carrying arms, and for tightening the penalties for smuggling migrants. However, we are asking a question and we have submitted an amendment to Article 89. – why, though it is, the spirit of the law to sharpen punishment, why is the punishment of the hooligans tempered? Or why is the position of the perpetrator who broke the ban on attending sports events or failed to perform his duty to report and stay at the police station being punished from 30 days to three months? Why is this attitude erased? Do you perhaps have the good news that we have solved the problem of hooligans, and then these repressions are no longer necessary, at all simple, from the whole spirit of the law, as I said, such a provision. What's worrying is that some indecisiveness, some wandering around in the law itself, although the minister has also announced the adoption of a new Criminal Code. So, for example, the work of small importance, which in most countries does not exist at all, was expelled by both Slovenia and Montenegro, we return to the solution that was in force before the 2009 laws. Then when I talk about harmonising with European standards on this need, i.e. the need to meet the requirements of Articles 23 and 24, it is really alarming this argument, so I would quote it, it says - when it comes to harmonising the Criminal Law with all relevant EU documents, it would be premature to do so already at this stage. Come on, that's what I get. Be careful, the next sentence - until the entry of the Republic of Serbia into the EU, and the EU itself will change or bring new acts. Which tells us as if the legislator, i.e. the government is looking at the European path as being infinite and still lacking to say that it is written in reason – and perhaps the EU will fall apart. That's how it works for me. As for the introduction of fines in daily amounts. So, first of all, it is found that the low level of fines is low, and then the legislator, at the same time the government wants to show its teeth to criminals, but at the same time mitigates the responsibility of courts and even judicial authorities, and has a mild attitude towards avoiding the liability to which they are required. Let me just read you that part. So, it's about introducing fines in daily amounts, then you say in the explanation that the legislator should do something there, not only because this system today has become a European standard, but also because it represents a better system than the traditional one, it says – it is known that courts avoid what is more difficult and complex for them, so in this case they opt for an old system that is much simpler, in parentheses, but not better, although they are so on the verge of breaking the law. Please, don't this testify to my claim, so the court's support for someone avoiding responsibility, and at the same time it's done here, well, this way it actually gives the courts a compromise solution. But you should always think about speeding up reforms. These compromise solutions usually don't lead anywhere. As for the law of confiscation of property acquired by criminal acts. All right, the same shifts, the definition of assets is better, added and shared in the legal face, the circle of criminal acts to which the law applies, and all of this is positive. But you know what worries me? This amazing pride with which the state, including today's minister, speaks of it with great money and besides, and with the amount of budget, with social assistance, with VAT, it also has an explanation, as if it were a new economic branch, i.e. the state in future accounts for increasing incomes, i.e. an escalation of crime. I mean, I only point to it as one failure that we shouldn't do in the future. As for the Law on Organized Crime, of course, a better organisation, we support the introduction of both liaison officers and those strike groups. In practice, it's not some way that it's worked, and it's good to get it up to a higher legal level now. We have also proposed an amendment to increase the duration of these organizational models from four to eight years. We hope that the Proposer will take this proposal into account. Finally, to say that our LDP-SDA parliamentary group will in principle support these bill proposals. That, of course, it is about how they will be implemented in practice, that it is necessary to strengthen the institutions further. If we had submitted 15 amendments, that we were not vain to vote in favour of amendments from other parliamentary groups to correct these proposals. That we have an understanding of effort and some new, better solutions, but I am saying, I hope that the law in the course of the debate will be changed for the better, and that as a parliamentary group we will vote in favour of the laws as a whole.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6077	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6078	Dear Presidents of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must first refer to your claim that civil society had no proper representation in the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence. I must point out first of all that in the very process of leadership and civil society proceedings and how it cannot participate, but when it comes to the coordination and co-operation group, the law explicitly foresees that, in addition to the mandatory police officer, the presence of a public prosecutor and officials from the centre with social work in the work of this coordination group, different institutions and associations can participate, and hence also civil society, and how they can find their part in this. As far as this law is concerned, I must point out that civil society has made a major contribution to its adoption and creation, given that the Autonomous Women's Centre was a member of the Working Group, and I think that the Ministry of Justice is a good example of inclusive work and involvement of civil society in the development of all our draft laws. In the last few years, civil society has made a major contribution, first of all, when it comes to the Alert Act, the Law on Implementation and Security, which has also been brought in and which has been highly commended for the fact that there has been the inclusion and participation of broad groups and large professional public in its creation. Then today, the Ministry of Justice is working on a new law, or law on free legal aid, where without civil society, the draft law could not be found before the MPs in the National Assembly. So I don't think that your objection to civil society's participation is valid, given that the Ministry of Justice is largely benefiting from civil society, their suggestions and objections. In addition to the draft Law on the Prevention of Family Violence, where civil society, i.e. the Autonomous Women's Centre and the Safe House, participated in the development of an Internet campaign with which the Ministry of Justice is soon moving, which is a campaign – Turn off violence. They certainly found great importance in making this law. You mentioned the issue of making a law on the origin of property. It is true that it has been announced and I must say that the Justice Ministry is working on, that the task force is formed, that there is a working version of the bill and that we hope that the law will be in the assembly procedure in no time soon. You've mentioned a lot, so let me just try to look at everything you've been up to as soon as possible. You mention, too, that enough time has passed since the adoption and application of the Istanbul Convention and that the law will only begin its application in June 2017, but what has been done by the Ministry of Justice lately and we are continuing and we are now delivering the relevant legislation in order for both the professional public and the citizens to become acquainted with the law itself and that, when it comes to a concrete law on the prevention of domestic violence, appropriate training that must be carried out, both police officers, both public prosecutors and judges, given that only after the adoption of the law exists is there a legal basis for the judicial academy to adopt a training programme that needs to be implemented until the start of the law, and I assume that you have had the opportunity to see that both the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Justice and Social Affairs also has the obligation to adopt an appropriate sublaw, so that this is precisely why we have a delayed application of the law. When it comes to amending and supplementing the Criminal Code, you mention changes concerning fines. Monetary penalties in daily amounts are not something that is now being introduced into our practice. This has already been envisaged by the existing Code, but what has been pointed out is that courts rarely used it, or applied fixed amounts, and it has just happened to be burdened by the same fixed amount by persons of different assets. It is precisely the essence of the introduction of monetary daily amounts to hit differently the perpetrators of crimes of different assets, and given the provision in force in law, courts rarely applied. It is precisely this reaction to monitoring the implementation of the Criminal Code, so this way we try to remove what was a problem in court practice, to allow fines not to be paid at greater amounts. When you talk about the seized property and you say it's a matter of economic activity, I'd disagree. The point is that we tried to show what the amount of property that was temporarily taken away was, to get to the status of the permanently seized property with which the Republic of Serbia can dispose. It's a long-term process, and it's just an example of the amount of property that's temporarily taken away, which is much larger and much more pronounced than the assets that have been permanently taken away, and it's a negligible percentage compared to the assets that have been temporarily seized, so we've just tried these measures to get better effects in practice when it comes to permanent assets taken away. I hope that we will also have the opportunity to discuss in detail any amendment you have already mentioned that we will discuss more specifically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6079	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6080	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Madam Minister, thank you for your answers. Of course, first of all, I am pleased that we will soon have a chance to discuss the law on the origin of the property. I think it'll be useful to all of us, and to society in particular. As for the property taken away by a felony, I was just trying to tell you that, of course, it takes you to present these amounts of value, but it's not a good glorification and an excessive comparison, I'm saying, you've also filed with the level of the budget, to social aid, so it gets the impression that it's an economic activity. I just wanted to show you that it's one wrong way. As far as civil society is concerned, I don't think we understand each other at all. I know that the civil sector took part in a public debate, but I also know that this public debate was held only in March and April. Your predecessor, Justice Minister Nikola Selakovic, held a public debate during the election campaign, at the end of 2016, elections were already widely called. And the civil sector has contributed, but you didn't understand me, I said, aware of the fact that the civil sector cannot also play a repressive role as state authorities, I am absolutely aware of it, and I support it, but I said that in the bill itself, I am sure that they could be given greater importance, not just discretionary law...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6081	Thank you. We'll talk on the amendments. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6082	Thank you, assembly presidents. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister of Associates, the Honorable Citizens, at first, would not agree at the very beginning that the civil sector is respected, as you just said. He just wrote amendments to the Autonomous Women's Center and complained that at the last minute he was disfellowshipped from the task force and that the things they stood up for were not like, let me say, a bill. The Autonomous Women's Center would not have submitted amendments, unsatisfactory by these solutions. So it's one thing to put someone at the table, and the other to respect his arguments. It's not the same thing, and for that reason, I think you've included the pro-forms in the civil sector, which I don't think is good. This is a very important topic for the simple reason why you know how many times each of us has had the opportunity to hear about domestic violence – it's her fault, why she's suffering it, why she hasn't left it, why she's waited so long, she must have caused it herself, what she expected, she knew it was like that, I don't want to interfere, it's not my stuff. Now, these are sentences that speak of that there is no awareness in society when it comes to this problem, that there is no consciousness, and even among us who have passed this law as perhaps a first step, but certainly not big enough to solve the problem until the end. My colleagues, I'm proud to say, they recognized this problem in time. Dr Dusan Milisavljevic spoke of this problem of family violence throughout the past term of the Serbian Parliament, that two weeks of domestic violence would be removed so that a woman could consolidate, so that she could consider what to do in the day, so that she could advise on how to move on with her life. Dragan Sutanovac spoke of the confiscation of weapons to violent, registered violent men, those registered at a police station as perpetrators of domestic violence, who have legal weapons acquired by law. Those weapons weren't taken from them. For dozens and dozens of times, and Parliament Speaker Maja Gojkovic knows this, Dragan Sutanovac proposed the law to save someone's life, because it was happening that someone who committed domestic violence was registered by the police, returned with his weapon legally acquired and committed the murder of several members of his family. That is why this topic is so important and so sensitive and for this reason we may have been able to save a life so far, regardless of how ridiculous it is for Marijana Rističević, and even though many today it simply doesn't seem serious, but the matter is very alarming and requires our full attention. Statistics don't speak very well of us. Every other woman suffers violence. Each third suffers physical violence. If we know that half of single mothers are below the poverty line, then that's enough to talk about why they often can't, in general, leave the community where they suffer violence. Why can't they take the credit? Because they don't have their own property, because they're not paid, and when they work for the same job that some man does, they're less paid, they don't often work. Since primary school, they've been taught to be in the kitchen and to be housewives. Our primary education is such and high school that 10% of young people think he justifies beating a woman. Two-thirds think it's the same thing to work towards the LGBT population. This speaks of deep problems in our society and that this law is the first step, but that it may even have come too late. If we'd listened to our colleagues in the last session, I'm sure we could have saved some lives. Once a week, a woman in Serbia was killed every week. It's an average and it's a statistic that's defeated for us as a country and for us as a society. Physical violence in the family isn't the only violence. It can be economical, it can also be about intimidation, humiliation, control of every movement of a person, ultimately physical endangerment. Women in marriage remain solely because they are not economically independent. Today, you will rarely find a woman who doesn't work and minors every woman in society does, but the vast majority of them don't get paid for what she does. And when you look at the real state of things, a woman who raises a family, raises a household, takes care of raising children, takes care of children's schooling, cleaning, cooking, cooking, etc., etc., she's not paid for it. If she's still working, and for the same job she's less paid than a man, then she's doing minimum work in one working day. Now, this is the position of a woman in Serbia today, and for this reason, with special impatience, we need to focus on this problem. We talked, of course, in the previous period about the slave society. That's the economic expression of the government of the Republic of Serbia, but we're talking about slaves here and we don't talk about them that often, but that's the point and that's the truth. They must not lift their heads, they have no place to go, they suffer domestic violence and it is very regrettable that the ruling majority are laughing at it and earning it. Mr. Markovic, for example. The SNS are getting it. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6083	I also ask MP Balša Bozovic and other MPs not to receive each other. So he's probably focused on speech, on an important topic, and let him speak, and I ask the MPs not to get it. It's a very important topic. (Vojislav Seselj, from the city: He supports Hilary. Well, it's his right to support Mrs. Hilary. If that's what he wants, it's his political commitment. I'll give you 20 seconds back.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6084	Thank you. What's very important, too, to mention, is that we're not satisfied with the emergency measures, we're not satisfied that the position of Article 5 of Article 194 has been erased. A criminal code, because we believe that in some sense, it will not solve the burning problems of domestic violence in practice and that it will leave for the bully to be able to carry out the violence again and I think it is clear to you and that in practice it will not work exactly as you imagined it would. That's why there's a lot of things we're going to try to make right with the amendments. It depends on whether we support this law as well as other laws. We must thank Aleksandra Jerkov for at this time preparing a law on baby theft, which has not yet entered the procedure. Alexandera Jerkov, a Member of the Parliament, has already been persistent in the second term to be a law that, first of all, does not go out of date and does not go out of date and is found in Criminal Law as a crime that does not go out of date. I'm glad you accepted that. I thank Alexandra Jerkov for that. I also thank Dusan Milisavljevic, Dragan Sutanovac, for helping with their initiatives, when it comes to women's rights and the protection of women, to come to this solution today, not perhaps perfect, but to a solution that is the first step, regardless of what some think is wrong. When it comes to the draft law on the organisation of the jurisdiction of the state authorities in the prevention of organised crime, terrorism and corruption, and when it comes to the law on the confiscation of property stemmed from a criminal offence, these are, of course, partly the things brought by the Government of the DS, and we are very proud of that, and that is what the European Commission has commended and, of course, the European Court of Human Rights. What is very important for the end, and I would like to end it, we need to take to the problems of society, not only with a particular kind of empathy, but with caution, because we are talking about someone's wife, someone's mother, someone's daughter, and I think it's very important that we all end up together in this matter, that when we talk in principle and when we talk in particular, we really bring the best possible solution, to protect those women who are humiliated, some suffer years of violence, those who are turned into slaves, because they do jobs that are not paid for, and even if they are, they are less paid than men. I think it is very important that, as a society, we show that we care about it, that we are an advanced society and every honor and the Women's Parliamentary Network on their contribution that made this law, as a proposal and as a first step, on the agenda, because I think it's never too late. If we had brought it before, maybe we could have saved some life and each of us should always think about it. One life is sacred. Every life is sacred. We also had to propose that we try to get to this solution today. Better rather than later, in any case, but once again I say, this is a very important thing that we cannot push under the carpet, this is a very important fact in which society we want to live tomorrow, whether in the company of slaves and slaves or in the society of citizens and citizens, and that is the fundamental difference between these two policies that have been conflicting for the fifth year in a row. Thank you. (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6085	I heard. You don't have to yell. Here you go. (Radoslav Milojičić, from the post: Rules of Procedure. First, Vladimir Djukanovic answered, and so did you. Here you go. (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the place: Can I have the word? You can if you answer it. (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the site: The system is not running. I don't even have a minister in the system. Something's wrong. I'd like technical services to... Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6086	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm advertising Article 108. – on the agenda of the Assembly, the chairman, i.e. You. I would ask you, you don't see, and the minister to remind the gentleman on the left, who sits next to the minister not to throw him around all the time to Mr Balsha Bozovic. He's an official in the government and has no right to address the MP, to gesture with his hands, to frown, to throw. That's what we all saw sitting here. I don't blame you, because you couldn't see it, but it's first unworthy of one official in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Second, he can't treat a MP like that. Now he's doing it as I speak. You must run, sir, for someone to choose you and come to discuss with us, so I ask you to warn, either you, or the minister, of your employee that he is in the National Assembly and respects the dignity of the National Assembly. I'm sorry, I don't know what the gentleman's name is, but it's really inappropriate to interrupt Mr. Bozovic while he's talking and throwing it at him.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6087	I ask MPs not to receive, members of the House of Ministers, that they do not communicate in any way with MPs in parliament. If you have something to say, tell the minister, suggest to her, in response to the presentation of the MPs, she will say what she has. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Are you three prison guards? Please continue to do this, I've seen it now. Don't do that. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Why aren't you in uniform? Ambassador Seselj, don't provoke him because he's not... (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: I'm serious? ) He is not worthy of it, and he thinks that you are well - meaning, so he answers. He can't do that. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: No, no, I'm serious. Please, here's another time. I'll take a break and you'll talk. The question and the answer of the cabinet members, it's already going on for a while. You said yourself I couldn't see, and I couldn't even react to the injury. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6088	Thank you, Your Honor, the President. I'm advertising Article 107. It's really about dignity. I think you had to react. We have been listening here to an incredible tirad, a demagogue story where the whole Serbian society is being insulted and the entire parliament is being insulted. It's about slaves and slaves. It turns out that all of us men can't wait to get home and beat up women. That's how you treat this company. People whose time money was spent in enormous...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6089	Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6090	In enormous sums, on the alleged protection of women, and there was never more violence. For the first time now, the government is passing a law that will arrange for such things not to be repeated. Please protect our entire society, it's a shame that someone here calls us slaves and slaves. Why?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6091	Ambassador, thank you. So I didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure. That's the attitude of the DS parliamentary group, I can't get involved in it. In their political position expressed by an authorised representative, I have no right to interfere. He gave the grade that they think they should give. Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6092	Thank you. I have to admit, I wasn't sure what you were going to say, that you weren't satisfied with the emergency measures. Does it mean that you are opposed to setting up a restraining order in the apartment together with the victim or forbidding the victim for a certain period of time? What matters is that you've had quite enough time while you've been in power to also act and pass the right law, so you haven't done that, even though the statistics on domestic violence are exactly the same in that period and now. There's nothing worse in this period than back then. What is important and not true, that civil society was excluded from the work group, since they participated together with the representatives of the Ministry of Justice and with professors and representatives of the Ministry of Labour, so unless you adopt someone's proposal, that does not mean that it is absolutely excluded. Different structures of people and different representatives of different organisations participate in the task force, so in some ways you have to compromise all of them. It is true that there were objections to the Autonomous Women's Center itself, but that does not mean that they were not equally respected and that their opinions and suggestions did not find a place in this law. As far as the work group is concerned, I have to make a commitment since it was previously pointed out that the public debate was in March and April, it is not true. It was continued during the summer and several public debates were held when it came to the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence, so this is one of the few laws where public debate was held in as many as eight cities. In view of some practice respected by most ministries when a public debate is held, that only four major centres are held, this time public debate was held in eight cities. Also when it comes to the use of illicit weapons, I draw attention again to the fact that amendments and additions to the Criminal Code are a more severe punishment for the illegal holding of weapons. I also need to draw attention to the fact that only the Ministry of Interior has responded through changes and additions to the Law on Arms and Ammunitions by applying the confiscation of weapons when it comes to violence, given that you have also turned your attention. When it comes to the Law on Missing Babys, I would not say that the law is not in the procedure since the government passed the law and it is in the Assembly, so I hope that at some of the next sessions we will have the opportunity to discuss it. I must say that this particular government has first shown its willingness to make such a single proposal and to go public with it since, while you were in power, it all ended up organising polling committees, recommendations, establishing that there were some irregularities that were absolutely not removed, so that we came into a situation to submit a play against Serbia to the European Court of Human Rights, which ordered that this problem must be resolved by the adoption of a lex specialis and the Ministry of Justice has shown great readiness to do so, so I hope that we will also discuss this law soon. Regarding this particular issue, changes and additions to the Criminal Code have been amended, and when it comes to the confiscation of a minor and the criminal act of family change, so that criminal and legal protection of newborn children is currently envisaged, I can also read to you: "If this act is done to the newborn, the perpetrator will be punished by imprisonment from six months to five years". What is more important is: “If the work is done out of kindness, low initiatives, or due to more serious health, education or underage education, or the work is done by an organized criminal group, the perpetrator will be punished by prison from one to 10 years. ” So, this is a newspaper of the Criminal Code that is currently following the problem you were talking about. So, I think the Justice Department has tried to solve the problem that we've been facing so far in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6093	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6094	I would like to thank the President of the Assembly. So, Mrs. Kuburovic, I can agree with you, you're absolutely right, the law is in the process, I was wrong. The baby theft law, I say, once again since 2013, is in favour of the adoption of such a law, which should have been in the process by 2013. So, what you said about whether we're against it, against the 48-hour and emergency measures, absolutely not. So it's not about that. We're against erasing Article 5's Article 194's position. I will now read to you: “Whoever violates the protection measures against domestic violence imposed on him by law will be punished by imprisonment from three months to three years or by fines. So, I want to tell you, there's a procedure fast. In this case, when it comes to an emergency measure, whoever breaks the emergency measure is given 30 days. So, the procedure is delayed. An emergency protection measure would be brought through a police officer for 48 hours. So, I want to tell you that this is much more accurate and it turns out that you are proposing something that is below the level of protection rights achieved when it comes to victims of domestic violence. That's your opinion, this is our position, and I don't think we agree on that at all. Our amendment will be to return attitude 5, not to erase it, but to remain as it is, because we think that in a better way, it protects victims from domestic violence. When it comes to general law, I find it very important that no one feels threatened. I didn't accuse anyone. We've been talking about women needing protection in this society, and you as a female minister, I'm sure you know that very well. For this reason, first of all, thank you for the answer, thank you for the correct debate, and on the other hand, I ask that even when it comes to amendments to the debate in particular...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6095	Thank you, you've been two minutes, 11 seconds. You know you can't use that time. The word has Marinika Tepic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6096	I thank the president. Dear guests, members of the Republic Government, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I would also like to immediately refer to the re-emergences of the minister who commented on the participation of the civil society organisation in the working group that composed this bill on preventing domestic violence. Just to confirm the fact that the Autonomous Women's Centre is concerned as a representative civil society organisation that has declared itself to have left the task force on the same day that Deputy Prime Minister Zorana Mihajlovic joined the signing of their petition, so there is no doubt that women from the Autonomous Women's Centre have left the working group. This does not mean that part of their suggestions are not included in this bill, but certainly remains part of the remarks and recommendations that we from LSV will make through our amendment proposals to our fellow Members and, of course, expect the support that goes towards improving this law. What is something that is going through in an explanation, in particular the draft law amending the Criminal Code is something that brings us into a deep dilemma whether this is the ministry's position, whether this is a failure of the ministry or a change in the course of the Republic government, which I doubt, or where you say on the other hand in an explanation when it comes to the harmonisation of the Criminal Code with all the relative documents of the EU, it would be premature to do so already at this stage. There is still plenty of time until the entry of the Republic of Serbia into the EU, and the EU itself will change some of its acts in the meantime. I would like to believe, and I want you to confirm to me – whether you wrote it or perhaps it was a failure of one of your associates' unintentioned, because this relationship with the EU's legal assets is something that is completely contrary to the draft policy of the Republic government and if this is the way to be informed about this change, please also make it clearer and tell us, rather than reading it from some pages of reasoning when changing the Criminal Code. What has come from some "lighter" changes in the Criminal Code for us in LSV disputed is, one co-worker previously pointed out, that by this intervention, in fact, the recurrence, i.e. the violation of the ban on the presence of a person in certain sports events is no longer sanctioned by prison, but by fine or imprisonment for up to six months. I'd like to hear, if I don't see the data from which you've concluded that if the hooligans violate the ban on attending certain sports events, they no longer need to be punished by jail time. This abolization of hooligans is absolutely unacceptable for us and we will, of course, try to intervene on this proposal, but I'm curious as to why you brought this proposal and how you think the judges will, for example. who show up in court a group of fans, a group of hooligans to prosecute a prison sentence if they have the possibility of giving a fine, and say a misdemeanor is not appropriate? I don't want to interfere with court decisions, but I don't think it's going to be easy for judges in these circumstances when the law obliges them to act differently to believe that the struggle with hooliganism will come to an exclusive judge in these proceedings. There's a lot of stuff. I won't talk about all the amendments. It's gonna be a special day for that. There is also a discrepancy with the definition of some new crimes that are being established by this law, such as Full of harassment. It explains why it is defined as full rather than sexual harassment. It is explained – because it is a sexual word of foreign origin. Then the Criminal Code shouldn't say a word - counterfeiting if we go to that analogy. I have an obligation to distract you and I hope that you can accept our amendment to redefine the name of this act in sexual harassment, since full harassment is about harassment between the opposite sex, and sexual harassment can mean or imply harassment between persons and the same sex. It is an important difference in qualifications and as far as terms and words themselves are concerned, it is not only a question of whether – it is a sexual word, but also in the very meaning. What is also something that is controversial for us, especially in the amendments to the Criminal Code, is a member of your 40th proposal, which states that Article 387 after Article 4 adds a completely new position of 5, which reads, you will allow me to quote it – Who publicly approves of the existence or significantly reduces the severity of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes committed against other persons or members of a group based on race, skin colour, religion, origin, state and national or ethnicity in a way that can lead to violence or cause hatred against such a group of persons or members of that group, if those crimes are established by the judicial verdict of the court in Serbia or the International Criminal Court of Justice, will be punished by imprisonment from six months to five years. We absolutely support the position to establish this crime in the way it was established to begin. However, we are opposed to the position set out in this proposal that I do not know on which basis you have selectively decided to apply the judgments of some courts, and the judgments of some other international courts not to apply, so here you are bound by the courts in Serbia, the International Criminal Court, but also by the International Court of War Crimes in the former Yugoslavia and the International Court of Justice, and we will try to help with our amendment to make this a complete solution, i.e. to apply all the judgments of the international courts that should be so and to stand in our criminal code. As far as the proposal for a law on preventing domestic violence is concerned, I also welcome and believe in a well-intentioned way that, in fact, through orders, or the introduction of emergency measures, this is a preventive law, and that this is its basic purpose and especially in that very detailed description of the risk assessment. However, there are several misunderstandings, i.e. in our case, that may be problematic in the application of this law on the ground itself, and if we simply try to simulate a situation of violence or the danger of violence. For us, those circumstances are unarranged in which, if an order is given, an emergency measure to distance a bully or a potential bully from his apartment, or from the family environment, which is why the measure was not foreseen, for example. Taking away the keys, or some security that would make the competent, or specialized police officer safe or how much, so sure that there won't be a bully returning to the family environment? Also, what's missing here and what we're also proposing to the amendment that it adopts is a lack of intelligence and sacrifice itself. Therefore, the competent police officer gives the order an emergency measure to the bully or potential bully, but it is not intended anywhere to be notified at the same time or immediately after the measure has been made of the stated measure, because it cannot know that the measure has been violated unless it has been notified what an emergency measure has been made. It will also be one of our proposals. We also have a big dilemma in the application of this law and we believe that these irregularities will be able to correct the amendment proposals. When it comes to the conditionality of following a bully or a potential bully, for example, a measure of distance is given to him. 48 hours and then what happens to him? Where's he going? Who cares about that? I asked in some communication with the perpetrators on the ground what it might look like, and they say – we don't know, it probably won't be our job. So, a bully, after a measure of distance of 48 hours, can go to a bar, get desperate drunk, come back and kill the victim. There is no such thing as this law to follow a bully after the measure of distance has been given to him. And that's the key thing, so we don't have the risk of re-violence or unfortunately fatal outcome when it comes to the victims of violence. And with that in mind, I hope, since I was only going to use the part at this point in power in front of LSDV, I'd like to hear the answers to at least these questions. Of course, I'll continue the discussion with you, and I'll use my time in a later period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6097	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6098	Thank you. As far as the measure is concerned, as you say, hooligans, I would not say that you read the law carefully, but that it is an oversight, because the amendments and additions of the Criminal Code also predict the adoption of a new member, which is a violation and a ban established by a security measure. Just in the light of the law itself, it is said that only sanctions for non-compliance with the security measure applicable to hooligans existed in the applicable law, and there was no possible sentence of imprisonment provided for, and there were no sanctions against other security measures. The amendments to the law through Article 340 now provide for the possibility of sentenceing prisons for violation of all security measures, and for the measure relating to the ban on attending certain sports events and the possibility to impose fines for up to six months, which means that these amendments and additions are subject to a more severe penalty than the penalty is in force. As for the arguments you're saying when it comes to amending and supplementing the Criminal Code, if you've listened to me carefully, I said that we have major changes ahead and in the next period and the Criminal Code Amendment Working Group continues to work after the New Year, given the many changes that await us. So this is just part of the changes, and they will be in the next period and will just be to comply with European standards. One of the reasons why these laws are today and by emergency procedure is precisely because we are late to meet the measures and activities of the Action Plan for Chapter 23, which are currently predicting almost all changes to the Criminal Code that are on the agenda today, so I would not say that Serbia has given up on the European path, since I think we stand clearly on that, that this is our path and that exactly in line with European integration we are taking certain measures, and above all when it comes to criminal acts from the economy that we have to coordinate and which are on the agenda today. I think that just the wrong interpretation of what is written, given that it is not only European standards, there are also certain international conventions with which criminal legislation still needs to be brought into line. There are certain crimes that we have agreed here with international conventions, such as air traffic crimes, but in the coming period there will certainly be more. As for saying an emergency measure, I have to go back to the previous MP who spoke about it, I also think it was a misunderstanding of the procedure itself. So a police officer, if there's a direct threat, can express an emergency to a 48-hour period. It is the court that can extend that measure for 30 days. If a bully violates that measure, he is subject to criminal sanctions and there is a possibility of sentenceing the prison for up to 60 days. In addition to breaking this urgent measure, this law on preventing domestic violence has also provided for a criminal sanction if the measures against domestic violence are violated, which is precisely the one and the position that we are eradicating from amending and supplementing the Criminal Code precisely because it has not been shown in practice as effective enough and the court has not applied that provision, and we believe that the same effect will be achieved through the criminal liability and the conduct of the criminal proceedings within a very short period of time, precisely because there is a possibility that the court will impose a sentence of up to 60 days and, which is important, that sentence can also be carried out before the verdict. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6099	Thank you. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. If you please, MP Marinika Tepic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6100	I'm asking you just once again to specify, since I may not have understood correctly, I'll allow it, but you haven't told me what's going on with a bully or a potential bully in the course of a 48-hour emergency, after being given by a competent specialised police officer. Where's he going, what's he doing, who's watching him? He's not in jail at that time, he didn't break, he was just told that he needs two days to get out of the family environment. So that's an open question that I think is risky if it doesn't come to an end, so I'd like you to answer that anyway. You have not responded to me to amend the Criminal Code, or selectivity in defining courts and international courts whose judgments will be respected on this Criminal Code, so I would ask you to give me one more precise answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6101	Konstantinovic, do you want to answer or have you given up? Sign up. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6102	The Honorable Presidents of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, representatives of the Ministry of Justice, we need to talk today about four very important laws. There was a lot of talk about the law on preventing domestic violence, my fellow opposition colleagues said, very little is said about the Criminal Code, the Law on the Prevention of Organized Crime, Terrorism and Corruption and, of course, the Law on the Abuse of Assets. Why is it a little bit said? Because these are four very important laws for citizens and it is impossible in a united debate to speak adequately about all the laws. I think the RS government and the SNS do not support the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. I believe that the Government is humiliating the MPs, because by an emergency procedure, all these four laws are being sent to the Assembly, giving us one working day to prepare for the debate and to make amendments, and these laws are due to enter into force on 1 March 2018. Is it possible for important laws to be introduced into this Assembly by an urgent procedure, and that they should enter into force on 1 March 2018? As a reason for the urgent process, you cited the EU accession process and the need to join the EU. I absolutely agree, and I advocate that we need to join the EU as soon as possible, but we will not join the EU by passing laws that will start to apply in two years and which, in my opinion, will change by that entry more than once, since both the Criminal Code has changed in 2013 and 2014. I don't think I should remind the MPs that they can't be reasons for an emergency procedure, because the reason for an emergency procedure is only if they are threatened or the lives of citizens are at risk or something that could not have been predicted earlier, and there are reasons for urgency. So you're making it impossible for the opposition to prepare to discuss these laws and to submit amendments that could correct these laws. No matter how notified I am, 300 amendments have been filed. We, as the SDS parliamentary group, have submitted 38 amendments to these laws. I think if you adopt these amendments, we will greatly correct the laws that you have proposed. In order to join the EU, I think we need to share the values that apply to societies in EU countries, and not just overwrite and cite as reasons for the need to join the EU without acting that way. The values of both the EU and these societies are respect, among other things, and Parliament, respect for one another and above all, that is our desire to become a well-organised state in which there will be an incomparable principle of rule of law. I think you've missed the opportunity to establish in one part even if the rule of law in our country. I mean, first of all, that you missed the chance when you were changing crimes from the economy, or against the economy, you failed to end the crime of abuse of a responsible person. You put it in your own mind that this crime should be abolished, that it is a transitional solution, but this transitional solution has existed for years and never disappeared. This crime was committed by abuse of official office, also one, I would say, an archaic crime, which serves only to prosecute political inexperiences, and the crime of abuse of a responsible person exclusively serves the needs of the government to hold the blackmailed all businessmen and all private people in this country. So, behind the SNS' decision not to end the crime of abuse of a responsible person, which is also how it can be abolished, since you have brought 29 crimes out of the area against the economy, seven new crimes, as you say. So, there are all the conditions for this crime to be lifted, you don't end it. It is the wish of the SNS and the desire of the executive authority to be able whenever they want and for whatever reason they want to put every private in this country in front of the defendant's bench. That's how people who deal with the economy in this country get blackmailed. Anyone who doesn't pay for a racket, anyone who opposes the authorities, can be on the defendant's bench for abuse of a responsible person. Why am I talking like this? I'm talking because you gave the definition of this crime a negative way. It's not particularly social and any science that can be given a negative definition. You say – for the abuse of a responsible person can be held accountable by a responsible person who we cannot find for which other crime would also be responsible against the economy. So, if you can't charge someone with a crime, one of those 29, then you're accusing him of a crime of abuse of a responsible person who's absolutely not clear and set up too wide. Even you say in your explanation – we know it's set too wide, we know it's not fixed, we know it needs to be abolished, but what? The Serbian Progressive Party has no courage and no will to impose order into Serbia and create an orderly society and the principle of rule of law. Such a definition of the offence of the abuse of a responsible person is denied by the rule of law in every sense. No one's safe anymore. Anyone who submits criminal charges can be prosecuted, sent to prison and thus eliminated from social life. That's why, I mean on purpose, you missed the chance to abuse your official position as well. And another abuse, there is a request from the European Commission to abolish. If you look at the report of the European Commission, this latest one that we have received, you will see that there is also a demand to end the abuse of the responsible person because it is an economy and it is a matter of damage to the economic environment, of course, infringing legal certainty in every sense. In addition, when you were making changes to the Criminal Code, you did not, of course, miss the punishment for the hooligans who violate the security measure given to them by the court. It was according to the current law, and we asked by amendment for it to change, there was a prison sentence threatened. You are now relativating it and determining the possibility and the fines. So, which hooligan was this law made for? For someone specific who has endured the sentence, who has been banned from going to the games. You are now setting a fine for someone, I suppose, for whom you already know in advance who this law will apply to. You also end the possibility of a criminal offence for people who violate the ban, which refers to violence, to the prohibition against domestic violence. Now you're turning it into a violation. Wait, on the one hand, we have a law on the prevention of domestic violence, on the other hand, you're abolished when someone violates a crime and you turn it into a felony. Well, I guess that's a much easier qualification than a crime. In no way, whether it is a criminal code or a law on the confiscation of property or the repression of organised crime, you have not tried to prevent the abuses that occur in the judiciary. We are all witnessing spectacular arrests where 86 people are arrested in one night in action, and one year after that, no indictments have been filed. Against all these people or most of them is a measure or a solution has been made on the temporary confiscation of property. There have been no charges for more than a year, therefore, there is no reasonable doubt that these people have committed crimes, but they are temporarily taken away from their property and thus punished. These are people who do not, many of them, otherwise solved the housing issue. They now have to rent their apartments, practically, on their own and pay for it, and no charges have been filed against them. That's why abuse of office, Article 359, is a disaster. It's devastating, because it's being abused as a crime in the worst possible way to a huge extent. All of these from the “Slicer ” are being prosecuted for abuse of official position. There's no charge. They're not there because they can't be. Because it's one crime that means nothing. It's a crime when you don't know what you're going to do and why you're going after someone, you stick to abuse of official office or abuse of a responsible person, as they say, when it comes to private companies. So you failed to establish the principle of rule of law by this amendment to the Criminal Code. You said, "It will change again." Since it changes every year, I invite you to do it in some subsequent change or already now to accept the amendments that we have submitted and thus improve the law. As for the Law on the Prevention of Organized Crime, which defines which institutions are involved in the repression of organised crime, it is good that you too have found that this is one law that has been well laid down since 2002. There are no fundamental changes and I welcome that there are no fundamental changes, but there are a few things that we have tried to change with amendments and we urge you to adopt these amendments. They are particularly concerned with the identification of who will be the president of that special court or special court in the context of a higher court and who will be the judges of a special court, or who determines them. We believe it is not acceptable for the President of the High Court to have the right to determine and who will be the judge and who will be the President of the Special Court, for the simple reason that we do not have enough transparency or objectively decide on it. We think that's what the High Council of the Judiciary should do. On the other hand, I don't think it's acceptable the way the M.O.P. checks were defined, the judge's security clearance. The system has not been elaborated, and it is not known what happens when it is established that some of the judges of the special court do not pass the security check of the MUP in law is defined as being able to do so by the MUP not only the security information agency. Then what happens to these judges? Will they be freed? Have you considered that all judges should be checked out, why only those who work in a special court? I don't think that's well worked out, and we suggested that an amendment delete such a provision. As far as the property confiscation Act is concerned, I think it is good that the SNS realized that the solution that was in force until 2013 was much better than the one that you obviously set up wrong in 2013. Therefore, this law now returns the procedure to be as it was until 2013 in which a person, who was temporarily deprived of property, could participate in the procedure before a solution to the temporary confiscation of property was reached. In your law since 2013, the person whose property is being taken away is faced with it only when the decision comes to his house that his property has been taken away, and then he can write a complaint about it. I think that this solution that you return practically from earlier is better, and I have elaborated it further in one amendment and given the opportunity to discuss in a better way whether someone has obtained revenue legally or has not obtained revenue legally. If we were to adopt these amendments, we could support this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6103	Thank you. Just a moment, you asked me about the urgency of the procedure for Member Konstantinovic, as President of Parliament, I would like to remind you that you were before the President of the Working Party for the construction of this Rules of Procedure, which you certainly forgot, from 2004 to 2008, because you were the chairman of the Administrative Committee. You have adopted the Rules of Procedure, which defined the urgency of the procedure by Article 167, in particular Article 1 and Article 3, so that the law can be adopted under the urgent procedure of paragraphs 3 and 2, respectively, and in order to comply with international obligations and to comply with EU rules. It is respected by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we too. So, the Rules of Procedure you brought in, you were still in charge of that group. I just wanted to remind you, because this is where you honor Parliament to pass such important laws by emergency procedure. So we just respect what you created. We have a continuum. No, that's your answer. Cedomir Jovanovic, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6104	Madam President, Article 107. I don't think there's been such a severe injury, after which it can be said, I don't know about endangering the dignity of the Assembly, but that's the basis for me to come forward and draw attention to you, to ask you to intervene to allow the minister to continue to work uninterrupted and quality here during the debate. In my very detailed explanation of the proposed laws, I believe there has been an oversight. The Minister did not answer what was the motives of the motion to amend the Criminal Code of Article 387 and to introduce Article 5. In fact, I'll be precise, I think it's very dangerous if it turns out that the government is aware, that the proposer has consciously made a selection between the courts whose decisions this country and society will respect and those they won't respect. We have, say, the Law on Co-operation with The Hague tribunal and have been working with the International War Crimes Tribunal for years. It is important to sanction, we support this change, sanction the dispute, negation of genocide, negation of crimes against humanity, war crimes, but I think it is an unsustainable legal norm that condemns the judgments brought by the International Criminal Court and our domestic courts, and we ignore the verdicts of, say, the International Court of Justice or the International Court of War Crimes committed in the area of the former Yugoslavia. There may be serious problems if we pass a law like this without a clear explanation. I hope it's a matter of oversight and that no one thinks about challenging the verdicts they've already made, since our country respects them.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6105	Thank you. Vladimir Djukanovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6106	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Here, I have to admit, I'm just shocked by some of the things we just heard. Maybe it's an auto projection, maybe it's something else, but in any case we heard a sentence that the SNS wants because it leaves an old crime that otherwise exists since socialism, unfortunately, that it wants to keep the businessmen in some kind of racket. You know, he just touched the gentleman who spoke earlier, admitted that they were doing it. Well, that's just amazing. We now have an eclectic example of knowledge because they know what they're doing, so I guess by their logic they think someone else is going to do it, and we're introducing for the first time here certain crimes that otherwise existed during that period, I mean, half of their establishment would be in prison. Let's just say, this crime of abuse in the privatisation process. Well, all singing would go to jail. Or, let's say, the crime of damage to the trustees, some tycoons who wrote to them the laws of their own time. Well, let's say, Miskovic. Let me tell you something, this guy's damaged all the trustees you want. Well, anything singing at that time might have gone to jail if there had been such a crime then incriminating. I'm listening here to the hooligan story. Now, look at this, in their time there was a demented law, a completely deficient law on banning violence at sports events. It has never been applied in life, except for Boris Tadic because he drank wine in the stadium, if you remember. But it was brought in for more demagogue reasons to make some kind of advert, and penalties were sent down the following way, on fines, or maximum prison sentence up to 60 days. That was for hooligans. That's what they've been punishing. And otherwise, they've been making amazing provisions, let's say you write down some transparency and go to jail. I'd really like to ask that we don't listen to this kind of thing anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6107	Thank you. Who did you replicate to? It doesn't matter, so I can't give a word to anyone. The word has Srdjan Nogo.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6108	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, I would like the previous indication of the violation of the Rules of Procedure by the People's Parliament to be contrary to the Rules of Procedure, because Article 103(3) clearly indicates that it can occur immediately after the infringement has been committed. I really don't know on what basis MP Jovanovic pointed to something the minister spoke about an hour ago. But apparently he had a great need to make another libel against the Serbian people, his own people to whom he belonged, but I really think it's one other thing that we've established, that soon there will be a Law on the Origin of Assets, that we will bring great order into this assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6109	I didn't understand anything, and I didn't hear you at all. Why did I give Cedomir Jovanovic the right to harm the Rules of Procedure? Well, he answered. (Srdian Nogo, from the post: But that means the minister was injured by the Rules of Procedure an hour ago. Not the Minister but me. Okay, he's given up on it and he's not looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. He realized he wasn't into hurting the Rules of Procedure and he quit. And the question will be answered, the minister will give notice in the meantime, don't worry about anything. So there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure on my part. Thank you so much for the suggestion. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6110	For a short time, I cannot accept that the SNS and the Government of the Republic of Serbia are violating the rule of law by amending and supplementing the criminal law, because just by prescribing new crimes in the area of economy, we are removing the consequences of what was done in 2009 when a member of 359 officially and responsibly joined in one member. It's just been produced by a bunch of court proceedings that haven't been resolved yet. It did not come on purpose this time to criminalise, but I have also stated that it is something we will definitely be working on in the future period, but we must leave time and court practice to apply the new crimes that we are now prescribing. As for the Law on Organisation and the jurisdiction of the state authorities in countering organised crime, corruption and terrorism, I do not see that we have now changed something regarding the provisions on the establishment and determination of the president of the special department. This is not about a special court, it is a special department within the Supreme Court in Belgrade, where the president of the court is competent to determine in the framework of the annual schedule of affairs which judge will do where, as well as in the special department. He has every right to determine which judge will be president of the same, so I don't see where the High Council of the Judiciary can get into the affairs of the judicial administration and determine which judge will be the head of the department. Also, as far as the security process itself is concerned, that's something that existed in the applicable law. This new law only defines in some way how security checks are carried out. That's what the High Council of the Judiciary gets. In any case, if there is any doubt concerning the judge himself and his dignity, I do not consider that there will be no basis for the initiation of the proceedings, or a disciplinary or procedure for resolving depending on what is delivered in the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6111	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6112	Minister, I don't think you've understood me enough about Article 2, 3. 4. of the existing law. The member was introduced by amending the law in December 2012. So we had a chance to see how he was applied to practice. In your explanation, you say that it is excessive to apply it, that both the prosecution and the court are more often applied by such members, rather than by any particular crime or any particular criminal act against the use of the economy and that it should practically be abolished. That is also the European Commission's request. Now you say - we're not ready. Why aren't we ready? We're ready. You have seven new crimes against the economy. I assume you've come up with every possible situation. Why do you leave a crime that you do not know what it is that a citizen, or private person, is doing a business, what is it that he cannot do? Even under the Constitution, it's allowed every citizen to know, if someone is chasing him, if he's burdening him, why and on what grounds. With this criminal act, you don't know that. counterpart Djukanovic obviously did not understand and it is very complicated, not what it means to be negatively defined in the description of the crime. You were able to put an end to the KZ's new crime and say – for everything the executive authority considers socially harmful, it will be considered a criminal offence, unless some criminal part of the KZ is intended. That's the same thing. You can go after someone and you don't know why.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6113	Thank you, MP. The word is by MP Meso Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6114	President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, representatives of the Justice Ministry, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I am sorry, at the very beginning to point out that this part of the debate is not directly transmitted by the public service of RTS, because the World Cup match is very important in water polo between Romania and Serbia. But I'm saying this because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. At the very beginning, I would like to point out the fact that SDPS MPs will support all proposed laws on the agenda, for the simple reason that we have waited very long for these legislative proposals to come to light in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. At the very beginning, I would like to say that the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence, which we are considering today together with other laws in the area of criminal law, is something we have long known, that no form of violence can be solved individually, that the fight against crime is such that it must be general, and the foothold gives it developed, cultural patterns of behaviour and what we call – developed awareness of the civil values of the society in which we live. In literature, it is always good to remember those who are much smarter and who know much more about us and the topics that we are talking about and in the crime theory in a very important and significant study she wrote, I want to say, using the function of the authorised representative of the SDPS, Dr Zorica Mrsevic, with whom I was pleased and honored to work together as chairman of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality over the past few years, talks about the mutual conditionality of criminal acts and the syndrome of broken windows. She says, quote, please don't take this quote away from me at the time I have. "Where broken windows are not fixed, where garbage is constantly applied, and graphite is not prevented or removed, this is the end nobody cares about, and green light is given to vandalism and violent crime. The negligence of society for anyone who breaks a window and whatever other form of broken window means a lack of care for the community and its well-being and represents a signal of vulnerability to such a community. No matter how many times repairing broken windows, it has to be regular and permanent. Broken windows lead to future problems in the form of street gang gatherings, drunks, junkies. Basically, the theory, presented by Dr Zorica Mrsevic, is small violations of the law and violations that pave the way for greater crime. They open the way and crimes, because the level of crime always tends to grow if it is tolerated in its initial forms. “ A quote has been completed, Mr. Chairman. I'm going on with my time. Violence in the family is perhaps the most complex form of human rights endangerment, the rights to life, the rights to physical integrity and the right to peace of mind, respected colleagues and colleagues. The opposition of the state to this form of violence is first and foremost difficult because this violence is very often hidden in our cases. Again in literature, we read a lot, mentions Stockholm syndrome, which marks the situation of emotional convergence, unfortunately, the bully and the victim, when the victim becomes loyal to the bully and refuses to cooperate with the people who are trying to help her. Such behavior is usually called and manifested in any traumatic situation that lasts longer as an unconscious form, an unconscious attempt by the victim to relieve himself of the trauma he is going through. To make trouble even bigger, passiveness is seen not only through victims who have suffered violence for years, but also on the side of witnesses who know or stop violence. It was recorded as one of the examples in the years of the last century, in New York, a woman was killed in front of 38 passive witnesses. She was killed with a knife near her house in an attack that lasted 30 minutes, during which she actively fought for her life and cried out for help. From nearby buildings, they only watched her struggle for life, or heard her call, or kept quiet for a long time. The killer only escaped when someone called to let the woman go, but even then these 38 witnesses didn't immediately call the police and the ambulance, but with a delay when the woman bled out. I would ask some MPs, if they don't care what we're talking about, to leave the assembly hall, because I think this will be very important for the citizens of Serbia. When such recognized socio-pathological phenomena, on the side of victims and witnesses, add to the ineffectiveness of a state that also draws heritage from the past and one basically of a patriarchal and residual environment, where what is happening in the family is clearly kept quiet, it is clear how difficult it is to prevent such violence. I suppose you all know that we are talking about the country we live in, in the country of our MPs, in the country chosen by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, all those countries, especially Scandinavians, who have long before recognized the phenomenon of domestic violence and active measures, have already opposed this violence. The European Court of Human Rights does not allow domestic violence to be treated as a family problem for which the state can remain silent. The European Court of Human Rights in two 2009 judgments, one relating to the case of violence in Croatia and the other in Turkey, directly sided with the state's obligation to balance the right to personal and family life, on the one hand, and the right to live and ban torture on the other. In that judgment of the European Court of Justice, it has been found that there is a responsibility of the State in cases of domestic violence resulting from the failure to take appropriate actions and measures by the national authorities. In particular, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in one of these verdicts, the court said that the state was responsible because of a person found guilty of serious threats to the domestic court and sentenced to a prison sentence was not properly executed in parallel to the measure of mandatory psychiatric treatment during his stay in prison. The European Court of Human Rights found that the treatment of the person consisted solely of talks with prison staff, none of which were psychiatrists. In the judgments of this court, it is apostrophe that the protection of human life and physical integrity carried out by the state through its organs must be real and effective and not theoretical and illusory. It is in these settings that domestic violence is not an individual, but a whole social community and its state bodies, that this bill has been prepared for you by the RS government. Article 11 states that state authorities and institutions are required to quickly, effectively and coordinatedly prevent domestic violence and provide victims of protection, legal assistance and psycho-social and other support for its recovery, empowerment and isolation. Article 12 says it is prescribed that everyone must report to the police or the public prosecutor without delaying domestic violence or a direct threat to him. Without such an approach to violence and preventing domestic violence, according to the law, it is not possible. When asked how the victim of violence and all those who know about this violence strengthens to report violence, the answer is that we must go through Scandinavian and other developmental countries that today have a high degree of protection of human rights. This path is the adoption of good laws, an adequately measured criminal policy, the adoption of a series of protocols with the conduct of state authorities that exchange data, raising the general cultural development, living standards, and the role of the media is also very important. All this together must move in the direction of raising people's awareness that life is precious and that no one has the right to exercise torture over another, especially weaker being. I believe this law will remove the gaps that were in practice when it comes to the work of the authorities. The problem we face is that mistakes and failures try to cover up, or hide. We have been witnesses, ladies and gentlemen, especially the most respected Justice Minister, that it is not often checked whether the bully has a weapon, and the victim is referred to as running the procedure himself. It even happened that arbitrary evaluations were made and that under quotes, family disagreements, verbal conflicts, under quotes are bad marital relations, so that the victim is not being questioned at all and remains denied for professional assistance and support. Seventy-one percent of applications for violence against women ended with an oral warning for a bully. I will remind you, honourable fellow MPs, that this is the least possible legal measure, and only 25% of criminal charges have reached the stage of the indictment in front of the court, and less than one third of the convicted offenders have ended up in prison. Otherwise, the provisions of our Criminal Code which determine the crime of domestic violence and related crimes, as well as provisions in family law, do not lag behind legislation in European countries. Where we are now lagging behind is the weaker coordinated activity of all organs in detecting and suppressing criminal acts, organized in all environments. It is in this draft law, which is before us today, that normably determines the missing link, which is, to remind, the clearly established powers of the police, the public prosecutor, the courts, the centres for social work, the preparation of trained and special persons in those bodies that will be responsible for handling, and then the identification of the person for the relationship in each body for the exchange of the necessary information. This law introduces the keeping of central records of cases of violence, the creation of an individual plan of protection and support for the victim. At first, I said how important it was to improve the entire area of criminal law, as well as the bill that I was talking about so far. The new draft law on the organisation and jurisdiction of the national authorities on the prevention of organised crime establishes mandatory forms of co-operation between all forms, i.e. bodies and organisations which have the relevant data necessary to detect these most serious criminal offences. I'd like to say a few more sentences about our criminal policy. The penalties prescribed by our criminal legislation are not mild. We have a decades-old problem in court practice. If, for example, domestic violence with a fatal outcome is prescribed a three to 15-year sentence, the killer is usually given a medium sentence. Now all that changes a little bit, but over a period of 10 years ago, the height of that punishment was usually closer to the established minimum of punishment, which is our bad practice. It was a verdict, I know for sure, where it is as an extenuating circumstance, watch out for this, fellow MPs, in the judgments of our courts: for the murder of a woman in a verdict, jealousy is stated, and this jealousy is not as a motive for murder, but jealousy as an exaggerating circumstance for a murderer, or for the perpetrator of a crime. The same punishment was given to those who killed a woman and those who embezzled a certain amount of money from a social enterprise. I don't justify embezzlement, but murder and embezzlement, you'll agree with me, have nothing to do with the identity of crimes. Let's not forget that the judge judges under the law, based on the evidence found, but also based on a free assessment of the facts. Why am I talking about this right now? Because no judge, not even in the subconscious, can justify killing a woman by her own self, allegedly challenging him. Such things must be handled differently, certainly not by murder. We must do this as a society, we must do it as a state, we must do it as MPs who have chosen the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, clearly and loudly. In this regard, specialised training will be important, which will be required to be completed by police officers, and public prosecutors and judges applying the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence. Let me just end up saying something else that I think is important. These laws, especially the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence, we must try to carry out in action with the help of the greatest ally, no matter what we think of them. It's the media. So, our job, the most important job is control function. Just remember the media report on the tragic rape case of a certain and murdered girl in Zajecar. We forgot. The sensational reporting, the publication of photos of the victim, the transfer of the most bloody statements, criminals and monsters that were allegedly given in the investigation, does not contribute in any way to the prevention of violence against children, and in particular does not contribute to the protection of the dignity of the victim, her family and the public. What kind of people have we become, respected colleagues and MPs, if we think that the publication of details from an investigation of how some monster, under quotes, quotes -- and the dead raped a three-year-old girl, how he tore her guts, finished her quote, increased her circulation and brought money to some particular daily list. It's a poor circulation pretending to be over a raped three-year-old girl. Don't count the victims on the cover of the tabloid newspaper. Let's be on the front page, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Let's do our job, because we warn the state authorities that they should and must do their job. Let's invite every day representatives of some state authorities who are responsible and responsible and ask them why something doesn't work. Let's remind the welfare centres, the police, the prosecution and the courts. What are we supposed to do? What are they supposed to do? Let's go through this law and these laws that we're going to pass, apply the best practice that's shown, for example, in Zrenjanin. Let us have advice and committees on gender equality in municipalities that must and can form according to our laws, indeed exist and do their job. Let's not talk about how we don't have any money. Let's not talk about how it takes a will. Let's do something that's our job. We keep hearing that violence is bad law, that it's a bad system, that the state didn't respond in time, etc. In the system are living people, ladies and gentlemen, they are addressed by victims because these officers are making a system and every failure to work must be sanctioned. These laws after adoption, I believe that we will adopt them together, with all the protocols that go into practice, again, by living people. The most perfect laws, you know that better than I do, won't help themselves if they don't apply.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6115	You're bringing the end, colleague Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6116	Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I conclude, it is essential that all the regulations and procedures relating to the protection of women against violence, and then introduce a concrete responsibility for unwitting work in the competent authorities, but we also need to allow normal conditions for the work of institutions. In this, in you Minister, at the Ministry of Justice, we expect the most possible allies in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Not because we chose you, not because we control you, but because we want to do our job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6117	Thank you, colleague Omerovic. The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6118	Dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, a respected minister with fellow Members, we are today in this high house discussing a set of Criminal Laws and for me and my fellow Members of the People's Parliament, probably the most important Law on the prevention of domestic violence. The aim of this law is to prevent domestic violence, but above all, to reduce fatal statistics that have been a serious social problem in our country for many years. There is no excuse for violence and therefore violence is an inadmissible and harshest violation of human rights. It is clear to each of us that not every murder can be prevented, that neither countries like Belgium, Sweden, Finland have succeeded, but it is also clear to all of us that we must not allow murder to occur because of a failure in the system of protection. One of the key things is to determine individual responsibility and when it comes to failures in the work of institutions, I expect the new Law on the Prevention of Family Violence to adequately regulate this issue. What is very important in my opinion is that we must introduce serious prevention mechanisms, and in particular we must oblige our judiciary to more strictly respect legal regulations and not to make new victims of the victim, but to be the bully who will be prosecuted and who will be taken from the scene and away, as this law provides, and then very important social and economic support to the victim, that is to make it stronger, so that the circle of violence is fully stopped and that the victims are included in social flows in the best possible way. Serbia has long stopped ignoring this problem. She stopped silent about violence against women and children, because if it hadn't been talked about in political parties, in institutions, most women would have been muscly beaten and killed by so far. Today, according to the MUP data, we have 15.9% more women last year who are braver and who report violence and it is very important that we talk about it, at every moment and in every place, because there are still fear and patriarchal perceptions as the cause of family problems hiding under the carpet. That's why it's necessary to keep telling everyone that violence against women is a violation of human rights and that it's a violation of human rights when you tell girls that they're worse just because they're girls and that it's a violation of human rights when we accuse a raped woman of her behavior, not the one who did it. Police and social work centres have formed teams dealing with the problem, however, besides all activities, domestic violence and violence against women continued to exist as a problem, the more the problem has escalated. The problem has been recognised above all by us here in parliament through the exercise of our supervisory role and control, recognized by NGOs, recognized by you in the ministry, and we are trying to solve this new Law on the prevention of domestic violence that we are discussing here today and which states authorities have to deal with protection, within which deadlines they have to act and how they will cooperate. In each primary public prosecutor's office, departments will be set up to prevent domestic violence, these departments will also be co-ordination centres. On the territory of each municipality there will be one or more co-ordination bodies to prevent domestic violence, chaired by prosecutors, and members will be police, social work centres, representatives of the NGO sector. So now these cases will not only be solved by the deputy prosecutors who work other cases, but by the specialised deputy prosecutors for this area, who will solve each case together with other relevant state bodies. The spirit of this law is that a bully must not stay home, whether he has already committed violence or threatened with violence, and he foresees specially trained police units accompanied by psychologists, who will have to enter the field as soon as they come to know of domestic violence. Their task will be to prevent violence and carry out a risk assessment - whether violence can escalate, then, to remove the bully from the house and determine his detention. My question to you about this is -- on what criteria do you assess the risk and will they be regulated by sublaws? During the duration of the detention or ban on returning home, the police are obliged to speak to the bully and the victim, to collect all relevant information and then give the bully the measure not to return home within 48 hours, nor to approach the victim, and as soon as a police officer adopts a ban, all evidence must be provided to the public prosecutor who has 24 hours, while the bully is in custody, to react and to extend the ban to 30 days immediately carried out, which means that although the bully lodges a complaint on the basis of the judge's decision, he will not delay the execution of the criminal sentence. No matter what you say, I think it is very important for the citizens of Serbia to do it again. This prevents a bully from approaching the victim in any way and harassing her until the crime is over. If a bully is not arrested by the court and released to some extent, but he breaks them by approaching the victim or returning to his apartment, the police may arrest him immediately and take him to the judge for violations. Prosecutor Zagorka Dolovac has suggested introducing a special measure of security, following a restraining order and the psychosocial treatment of violent men, and I find this measure very important that a bully in this case does not commit a crime. This law also provides for specific measures to record violent persons. I must immediately tell you that we have responded here as a parliamentary group by amendment because the law is limited to five years. My question is - why did you decide to limit the records to five years, because in my professional, pedagogical opinion, I think that record must last longer and that a bully can commit a crime after five years? That's why I'd like you to answer that question, and I'm telling you that we've also submitted an amendment. The law stipulates that Serbia's government will form a permanent working body involving both state authorities and representatives of the NGO sector, which will worry about preventing domestic and social violence, which is good. My question is, are the laws or sublaws of this body's jurisdiction and who are overseeing this body? I suppose the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but I think it must be specified which committee. I need to say a few more things that I find very important. I think so far in this area of preventing violence we as a society, all institutions have dealt more with the consequences, not the cause. Two basic institutions that have failed to prevent violence are families and schools. The family has been threatened for a long time because of the consequences of war and transition and needs constant support from the state, and the school unfortunately neglects the educational aspect and transfers to the family and in this vicious circle when the educational capacities of the family and the school do not produce certain results, the children are raising the streets. That is why, in my opinion, it is much more important to highlight the educational importance of the school and the educational function of the school and much more work on prevention. These are processes that cannot produce immediate results, but the longer-term effects will be visible. It is also crucial to realize that nonviolent personality is being raised from the earliest age, from preschool institutions and that our textbooks for children from the earliest age and violent content must have much more content in this area. What is also very important from all textbooks, especially during this initial period of child-personal education, all images and all contents that put a woman in a subordinate position must be excluded. I also believe that the native sensitive language must be used more. It's inadmissible that so far we don't have any networked sauce phones in the whole state. Many local self-governments have sauce phones in their cities. I think it takes us a little bit to network them across Serbia's territory and have them all have municipalities. I believe that after this law is passed, funds must be found, and I often talk in this high home about this subject, I believe that the Ministry of Health must bring in special medical protocols, which must take care of a bully who does not take treatment when leaving the hospital. He then becomes violent again, and the state, or society, must find a solution there. Once again, I must say that prevention is very important and it is very important to create conditions for it to be constant. Also, statistics on violence against women are not credible. It's only about those cases that have been reported, and I'll remind all of us that Article 40. The law on gender equality requires local self-government to run every kind of birth statistics. The role of the media in this process is very important, but not in a sensational way, as my esteemed colleague Meho Omerovic said, and we also need to change it all together, and because of the circulation in a sensational way, we have to talk about this topic. I must tell you that I am not a lawyer and that I am observing this law from my pedagogical profession and I see it as a strong preventive mechanism that will give the bully a clear message that violence is not tolerated. That is why me and my colleagues in the New Serbia parliamentary group will support the bill on preventing domestic violence, because everyone must be safe in their family and we must not allow family violence to become an epidemic of our society. I also want to tell you that we will control the application and implementation of this law and that we will react uncompromisingly if in any way we see difficulties in its application or any of its indeterminateness and indeterminateness. As for the amendment and addition of the Criminal Code, I would say it is very important that it introduces new crimes, persecution, and full harassment and the forced conclusion of marriage. That the aim of this Criminal Law is to comply with the Istanbul Convention and the family law, that this Criminal Law provides for even more severe penalties and thus sets the criminal legislation of the Republic of Serbia among the strictest in Europe. New legal solutions protect against violence, meaning not only women, but also old children, the sick, all those who are vulnerable and who need help. We have responded here as a parliamentary group by amendment, because we believe that in this series of people protected by the new law against violence should also be mentioned by persons with disabilities and I believe that you will have an understanding of it. It is very important that this Criminal Law eliminates conditional convictions, eliminates unequal treatment of courts, and I find that really good solutions. As far as the Law on the Organisation of the Authority's Jurisdiction in combating organised crime, terrorism and corruption is concerned, it is very important that in this law special emphasis is placed on combating corruption, which ensures that a wide circle of state authorities and concentrations is connected, practically, with the expertise of public prosecutors to obtain adequate logistics. In this regard, it is particularly important to serve as a financial forensics officer, and we have proposed here an amendment that this service should be educated, both in the prosecutor's office for organised crime and in newly formed departments of competent senior public prosecutors. Last in a series of these laws, amendments and additions to the Law on the confiscation of property stems from criminal acts, I believe that this law improves the efficiency of the judicial procedure for the temporary confiscation of property in order to make these bodies more effective in the detection of property arising from the criminal offence, the conduct of international co-operation operations, as well as the management of the temporarily seized property. When it comes to asset-absorbed management, a good solution is the obligation to direct 30% of the net assets received by the sale of the permanently seized assets to finance social and health needs, in line with the government's decision. Finally, I would like to inform you that the New Serbia parliamentary group will support the entire set of laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6119	Thank you. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6120	We have four amendments to the law, or new laws, or amendments to the law before us. First of all, I would like to refer to the Bill of Amendments and supplements of the Criminal Code. Material criminal law has changed more than once. Sometimes this need for change is conditioned to protect certain values, and at that time most of the time the state reacted correctly and brought quality changes to the law and protected the interests of citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6121	Comrade Nogo, please, we can't hear you. Or to sit down, I know it may not be your choice, to be closer to the microphone to hear you better. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6122	Sure. So sometimes when a state protects certain values, protective objects, reacts correctly and changes the law, but sometimes, unfortunately, political pragmatism conditions changes in criminal legislation, and then most often it's conditioned by some influences, mostly the external and western factors, and then we're witnessing that the state is making wrong decisions in this matter. This is realized by the fact that court practice then wanders into the very application of such legal solutions and that this has not been brought into the interest of its own citizens and its own state. I could qualify this law as some sort of solution between these two and what I don't like is just an explanation. You say that, above all, the main reason is to comply with the EU's law and legal system, you have also joined partial solutions. I would like to ask the question of the justice minister – when a working group was formed to amend this law, who did this task force, was he a professor of criminal law from the law school of any Serbian part of that working group and when was the public debate on these amendments to Criminal Law? I don't think partial changes are good and you also have one piece of cosmetic change, but you have one part where you actually introduce a certain newspaper. I would also ask why one part of the law, first of all, of these crimes involving businesses, enter into force on 1 March 2018, the others enter into force on 1 June 2017, only provisions relating to the crime of terrorism take place eight days after the publication of the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia"? It seems to me to be in line with this government's policy. In fact, this government is all about future, and so is this Criminal Code, and that's what changes are about. Somewhere, futur is the best feature of the four years of this progressive government and the politics of Alexander Vukic, that everything will happen to us in the future. We can also place a principled remark on the criminal ranges proposed by the Proposer. For some crimes, they are too wide-ranging, but for some they are too low-defined. This creates one space for pressure on courts and influence on the work of the public prosecutor's office. There is a practical problem of media influence on the work of judicial authorities, primarily party media such as Pink and Informer, which certainly undermines the principle of legality. You claim that this is the continuation of the reforms started in 2012, although this looks more like the reforms you start in 2009 and the continuity with the reforms that the DS did, which were bad, so we can't praise that either. You have even one member who is in conflict with the principle of constitutionality. Proposed by supplementing the elements of the criminal part of the infringement of Article 128. The criminal code is added words – sexual orientation and birth identity, as a new basis for discrimination. I remind you that the Constitution in Article 21(3) does not recognise sexual orientation and gender identity as the basis of discrimination, which is why this supplement is in collapsing with the constitutional prohibition of discrimination. This crime is found in the Head of Criminal Code which prescribes criminal acts relating to the protection of the freedoms and rights of man and citizen established by the Constitution. As for the implementation of the Istanbul Convention, there are good things, but some changes are too high. I ask the question why don't we put reservations on certain provisions of international conventions? Why burden the crime catalogue with some incriminatings unknown in our climate? Whether it's life, whether rights and criminal rights should follow life or just so we should just sign something that's going to be a dead letter on paper. In particular, can I ask a question about the crime of mutilating a female sex organ? It has never happened in Serbia, it is not something the practice in Serbia has faced, and now we are introducing it from Asian or African legislation. Why did I react to this? I have to ask you, is it possible that this government's intention is that a large number of migrants who are going through our country at the moment and are being held in our country, in agreement with the EU, to settle them in these areas, and then, in advance, predict such a criminal act, because you consider that with their remainder in Serbia, such problems will come to us? It is my personal observation and one personal fear related to this amendment to Criminal Law. Now I must also commend certain things about this law. It's usually one of the few things that can be praised, and it's about what we have on the agenda today. First, the decriminalization of certain crimes, specifically the abuse of power in the economy. In practice, the crime has provided broad arbitration in the work of the prosecution and the courts and every honour that we have decriminalised, but I especially commend the decriminalisation of the criminal act of publishing awaits and use of payment cards without the cover provided for in Article 228. Criminal code. This second crime served business banks, but also one company called "Daners Club" d.o.o. that in criminal proceedings they used the prosecution to collect their own claims, which was absolutely an incredible one of the great absurdities. I would ask you as Minister of Justice to simply examine the conduct and work of prosecutors in the past few years, and regarding these criminal proceedings, above all according to the company "Daners Club" d.o.o. which did not have the status of a business bank, i.e. it is not available today, nor was it able to issue a payment card, nor were their cards a payment card. Only this year did the NBS get permission to do that. Now, why no one initiated a procedure for the unauthorized issue of payment cards according to the "Diners Club" d.o.o. to a company of companies? Does this mean that we know that we have a prosecutor and judges who are privileged with business banks or have favourable loans, whether housing, whether cash loans, and that they are kept in the hands of business banks, that we have here in the Assembly and proved and carried out? Now we have some judges, or some prosecutors who work as debt seekers for the Daeners Club d.o.o., worked long years and probably have some benefits from them. Also, in the National Bank of Officials, it needs to be reconsidered. It is good that additional measures are being taken to protect families, minors, and children in criminal law. We will only propose to these amendments more criminal distributions in these crimes, and we welcome that, but we ask one question. Why wasn't that suggested before, should someone from the EU come, as you claim in your explanation, and tell us that we should protect family, children, newborns, minors? It's absolutely amazing to me that someone on the outside should be telling us that we need to do this, that we needed, I don't know, an Istanbul Declaration or anything, a convention. I commend one more thing, which finally introduces punishment for preparatory actions for the crime of terrorism, and that's the same good thing. I also think that the country should be further protected, and hence the citizens, by passing a special law on this subject. I would like to tell you that as far as these new measures concerning the economy, i.e. changes in the business of crime, which take effect on 1 March 2018, we expect that the economy itself will react to this first, then to the lawyerry, but also to the professional and scientific public. We have submitted amendments, and unless these amendments are adopted, we will, together with the reactions of this public that we have mentioned, propose new amendments and additions to the Criminal Code because we believe there are a lot of controversial things here. As far as the proposal for a law on the organisation and jurisdiction of state authorities in countering organised crime, terrorism and corruption, e, now, this legislative proposal is one of the true ugly continuitys of post-five-octobaric Serbia. At that time, revolutionary justice was to serve to establish and strengthen the new power, which worked for the accounts and interests of the West. The SNS is doing the same now. You continue, therefore, with this post-five-octo-octobaric Serbia, revolutionary justice, to strengthen your own power, and contentious, and in many solutions and personally, you continue that policy. That's where I have to ask the question. It's a very strange thing. When we watch press conferences, whether the Ministry of Justice, whether judicial officials, whether the MUP, Nebojsa Stefanovic, Aleksandr Vukic, as Prime Minister, the Service of Security, we hear that Serbia is successful in fighting organised crime, corruption and terrorism, that citizens and society are safe and that we never have better results as a country in this field, and then we get one such law and one such explanation. And now, I wonder, who lies? Does the Prime Minister Alexander Vukic and his ministers lie when they repeat that Serbia is safe? Or is Alexander Wolfe lying when he signs one of the accompanying acts on this bill? And this dualism, schizophrenicity and duality seems to be the quality of the policy conducted by Alexander Vukic, SNS and this government. So, I mention, the first of these laws to be introduced into our judicial system, some special, let's say, special departments in courts, prosecutions and escort police units that follow them for organized crime and war crimes, later high-tech crime, took place in 2002. The vast majority of you now sitting on the other side and performing the ruling majority were criticised as an opposition to this legislative change and the work of those organs while you were in opposition. You know very well that when these special departments were formed that foreign embassies and NGOs who managed and dictated the work of these judicial departments immediately came here. We criticized and rightly you criticized then, and now you adopt a number of benefits that members of these special departments in the prosecution and courts, high profits and various other privileges that followed. You know very well that even some have been involved in politics. We have Vladimir Vukcevic, a retired war crimes prosecutor, who was more political than a prosecutor's office. Is that true? I'm sure many of the SNS will agree with me. So you personally criticized it, and now you're doing it the same way. You're building a new special department, which is really amazing. The basic motives for this law, so I just raised that question, I think you have doubts about the court's fit and you want to degrade the judiciary, which must be, in whole, politically. Here, I'll tell you where. In terms of lawmaking, you say – detected work shortages. Who has noticed these shortcomings, I ask you a question? Who concluded that the same shortcomings existed? Are there any specific names and names behind these shortcomings? Because I repeat, at press conferences, you boast, and then you give us this explanation. Or is this some kind of signal that prosecutors and courts have to make sure that the SNS arrests, prosecutions and courts at the moment? I ask the same question – why is the new coordination of state authorities and their organisational redefining necessary, when the same effect could be achieved by existing legal mechanisms for interresour working groups? Who has been preventing this legal act so far, so we need some new tools, advanced tools, a new network? What kind of tools are these, anyway? So, we have blackmailed judges who are given privileges, bank credits from business banks or benefits and you even want to do an underprivileged job internship to give them, really amazing. In your explanation, you stated that this legal proposal was conditioned and confirmed by international acts. So you say, "Some are confirmed, and in the time period from 1990 to 2009. Now I ask the question – and what have you been waiting for? All of you here in the O.R. because you've all exchanged from the SPS, through the DS, all the factions, to the SNS, for 26 years, you've exercised power and failed to implement those international acts. What were you doing? They filled out, made party justice through the listeners who ran the prosecutions and courts, conducted selective justice and preserved your crime, as well as your criminals and tycoons, all of you here in the O.R., while the justice system in which the vast majority of the people of honor were choked by overcrowded cases, unconditional conditions for the work and pressures of the president of courts and public prosecutors who acted as party commissioners. So now you need some new coordination and new advanced tools for some new advanced justice. You have no precise allocation criteria defined in special departments to be conducted by the President of the Court. It has to be prescribed. They're slow, and they're profit levels, and I'm not talking about an underprivileged internship. What does financial forensics mean? Is that some new judicial profession? How will the Judicial Academy provide specialised training in the area of criminal law for financial forensics? We've pointed out how the court experts work and what's your problem with the court's experts, and now you want to introduce some financial forensics. We have amendments, we'll explain in detail why this is a wrong and bad solution, but we're asking a question. The Judicial Academy needs to carry out some very strong courses for various areas in these laws that you have proposed. Does that mean that we're introducing coursers to the judiciary, because you like coursers, that's clear? What's a task force? Is that a form of work? If it's a form of work, why are we institutionalizing it by law? What about those famous working groups of first Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Vukic? They didn't give the results. Are these the strike groups that copy it? Based on this law and reasoning, we can understand what the Government thinks of the Ministry of the Interior and its members, of the people in the prosecution and of the courts – that they do not know how to do their job and that they are doing it badly, that they have done nothing so far, those authorities, to combat organised crime, corruption and the fight against terrorism, too, that the current judges of the higher and the Court of Appeal are unable to judge these crimes and that is why this is the reason to pass one such law. Well, you see, on the contrary, we, as an MP, feel that these people and how they know and know they're being tried for these crimes, the same goes for the police and the prosecution. We think that the intention of one of these laws is precisely to create a party judiciary that will be bought with special privileges. Maybe this is enough. I'll leave more time for later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6123	The People's MP Balsa Bozovic has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6124	Thank you, Chairman. What was very interesting about exposing colleagues from the Dvori movement is that he accused the DS of several laws and a few years behind us, but on the other hand, not a single word, which is very indicative, the Serbian Movement Dveri did not, for example, say about the protection of women, when it comes to laws that are in one comprehensive way trying to protect women from domestic violence. We can't talk here about some conspiracy theories, how some migrants in Serbia are in the future a problem and how we're going to pass some legislation because of them. I don't think that's absolutely the case, when it comes to people who, by force of opportunity, have to leave the war area and go through Serbia and go on, but on the other hand, I'm very interested in how not to say a single sentence about why Serbia is lagging behind and why we are lagging behind as a society in the protection of women when it comes to domestic violence. We mentioned that once a week, a woman in Serbia dies. We need every life over to make this country a truly modern society. If we take that into account, then I don't understand the policy that tells me everything else, not the protection of those who need protection the most. So we have a chance to talk today about the position of women in Serbia, about how the government looks at it and how the opposition views it. Here, to be completely realistic and neutral, I end up, the last sentence, we don't agree on everything the government says, but, of course, no moves like the Dvori, which absolutely push this topic under the carpet and don't care at all to solve this thing once and for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6125	Easy buddy, you've caused a little more replicas. National MP Vladimir Djukanovic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6126	Thank you, Chairman. I have to admit, I don't know why they're attacking SNS and Mr. Wolfie anymore. We hear some people are arrested and not prosecuted, as if Vukic and SNS were on trial. Again, on the other hand, we have a story about some party judges. I'd like you to give me one name and name of a judge, the prosecutor elected, when there was a change of government, and you should know he's a member of the SNS. As for some of the other parties earlier, I can agree with that, since we quoted here behind some municipal boards a memo about how the judges were elected, I can agree with that. I'd like you to tell me the name of that judge or the SNS prosecutor, which is normally forbidden, so you can't be a member of the party. We rarely have a cry for the courts to work poorly, as if we had something to do with it. What does executive power have to do with the work of the courts? Nothing. I don't know what this kind of attack is about, considering we're colleagues from law school, so I don't understand what this kind of attack is all about. On the other hand, I understand the opposition has the right to criticise and say this about special authorities, I am a major opponent of the introduction of these special, various prosecution departments, for special, for organised crime, for war crimes, etc. It's introduced. At the end of the day, a prosecutor's investigation has been launched, and you can't deny it today. Now that that's the case, it's the elemental order to give the D.A. greater authority. We've had pure demagogy so far. We had an organized crime prosecutor's office that essentially had no authority anywhere, and what we found in 2012 after some change of government, which is that in the D.A.'s Office of Organized Crime, we had letters and the number of three cases that were pending. So nothing was done. This is, of course, one big improvement, and I think you should say hello anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6127	Thank you. I was planning on working until seven o'clock. There's no need to exhaust ourselves. Srjan Nogo, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6128	First of all, Mr Bozovic really doesn't know why he defends SNS and its policy, he should be happy because I accused the SNS of adopting everything that you did wrong. Here, my colleague Djukanovic also agreed with me that people like Snezana Malovic, such as Boško Ristic, such as Dusan Petrovic, such as Slobodan Homen, who led once the judiciary or the undertakers of the Serbian judiciary, the Serbian legal order. But the problem is that now the new people who came in front of the SNS are doing the same thing. Mr. Djukanovic himself said, you know, we work on continuity because we already have all that even though I disagree. Well, I never accused you of why you don't judge, I accuse you of not getting involved so much in the work of the judiciary and the judicial authorities. As for comments on the protection of victims of domestic violence, we still have, Mr Bozovic, about 13, 14 minutes left. We weren't able to say everything now, you'll certainly hear about it from us, much more content and argumentative than you said. As for the response to Mr Djukanovic, I would only refer to one thing, on 13 August 2010, the Conference at the SNS Office, a member of the Vladimir Cvian presidency, with a few judges, said – 650 judges who were not re-elected from them 1000 joined the SNS. I'm asking a question here all the time for a couple of months, where are those people's papers? So they don't stop being part of the party automatically when they're restored to that function. You have to give them the papers. Did you give them the papers, the date on which those papers were given, and can we see those papers? Here, Mr. Djukanovic, you control the judiciary, the President of the High Court in Belgrade, it is known that the SNS fist is in the judiciary.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6129	I'll give you one more replica, since you're not interested in discussing the prevention of domestic violence, and we'll continue tomorrow. Obviously, this topic that's on the agenda doesn't interest you. So, replicate as much as you want and the end, so I can bring you back to a very important topic for our society. Replica, Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6130	I would like to thank the President of the Assembly. It is very important, precisely because you mentioned it, because it is domestic violence, it is a policy towards women in society, and I don't see where Mr. Nogo is in the same sentence as he said, that I agree with the SNS said I fully agree with my colleague Vladimir Djukanovic. So that's very funny to me and, above all, weird. What is very significant is that several times we said, from my mouth and more than enough, the reform of the judiciary from 2008 to 2012 was not done properly. The people who reformed the judiciary today are not members of the DS. I want to tell you that together we have to work to make justice better than it is, because today is worse than that period that was bad. Where are the papers, and I can agree with my colleague Nogo, where the 600 judges who joined the SNS are to return to the post they were in before the reforms, which we agreed had certain shortcomings. For this reason, I do not think it is a question of whether or not someone agrees with the SNS, but it is a matter of the fact that Serbia's Dvori movement is not talking about fighting for women, when it comes to domestic violence on the one hand, and on the other hand, it is about some unknowns such as who reformed the judiciary. You see that with gentlemen who are no longer in the DS, and we are completely under way from that reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6131	It can't be a replica. If I give it once, I have to give it to everyone. (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the post: He began first. It doesn't matter who started it. I have to give the leg after you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6132	Thank you. Simply, just about that, these people were then on the justice of God thrown out of justice. It is true that at that moment they were not judges, they were ordinary citizens who complained to the Constitutional Court, so the Constitutional Court returned them to work. You have to keep that in mind, and that Constitutional Court still then, come on, we could say, from some previous convocation. So the Constitutional Court gave them the right to work. It's incompatible with SNS membership if you're a judge. You can't be. They're not members anymore. That's what you need to know. That's why this is the way I want to answer it anyway. We don't want to interfere in the work of the judiciary, never, and we don't think of it, and I will answer you specifically that when there was a change in power, we didn't change revolutionaryly, hidducely any judge, no prosecutor. They've all stayed in their seats. Maybe I didn't like it, but it's something that's a fundamental postulate in every democracy, a division into legislative, executive and judicial power. So, we've respected that and I don't see why anyone would move on to us. This violence against women, I don't know, we were in Belgium a year ago, in Brussels, in Belgium, they told us the next thing -- every other day in Belgium, a woman was killed by domestic violence, she died. Well, nobody says Belgium is a savage state, that there's someone out there who doesn't respect women, and this is not how you talk about slaves and slaves. I'd really like to ask you to take care of yourself. Violence is present, but so far as it has been fought against this domestic violence, unfortunately this violence has increased more and more and I don't think it has given its effects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-15-0.u6133	The word has Srdjan Nogo, a replica of Balš Bozovic and the end at 19.00 hours. SRĐAN NOGO: Dear colleague Bozovic, as far as I watched the agenda and how many materials we have, we are discussing four laws. All four laws are very important laws. I think amendments and additions to the Penal Code are extremely important things. I also think that the proposal for a law on the organisation and jurisdiction of state authorities to combat organised crime, terrorism and corruption is an extremely important thing. Also, we have a law that does not imply violence against women, but domestic violence, which is also an extremely important law. All four laws are very important. I, as an authorised representative, had 20 minutes. I've only been able to use the two laws for 15 minutes, with 14 minutes, and I said that there was enough time left to look at that law, which I think is wrongly called, because this law is not a law to prevent domestic violence, but it would rightly be a law that would be called – a way of organising mutual coordination and multi-resour co-operation between the state authorities on the application of the Criminal Code, Family Law and other laws that prevent domestic violence, which, somewhere from reason, arises, if we're going to talk professionally and if we're going to talk without getting cheap political points. But what's interesting is that I of the people who came forward affected by my speeches haven't heard any argument about the facts that I've been talking about, and these two laws. So, please get your stenographic notes again and look at it and see that I've raised certain questions and certain facts. I would also ask the Honorable Minister to direct at least some of the answers I have set tomorrow and certainly give equal importance to all the laws we are discussing today. Thank you. Thank you. This concludes today's work. We'll continue tomorrow at 10:00. Thank you.
