ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6889	The Honorable President, honourable fellow MPs, God helps everyone, I would like, above all, to ask the Serbian Prime Minister, Alexander Vukic, about the upcoming visit of the Prime Minister of Hungary and the entire Hungarian government, if the Serbian government has taken the opportunity to ask Viktor Orban how something has been done in Hungary that the Dvori has been falling back for years, and what the Government of the Republic of Serbia does not have the courage to do in Serbia. Under number one, did he ask him how he thanked for the IMF's co-operation and expelled the IMF from Hungary? Two, did he ask him how he abolished all credits indexed in foreign currencies and transferred loans to domestic currency? How, then, did he protect the citizens of Hungary from robbery on currency clauses by bank derivatives? Then, did he ask him how he formed the Ministry of Family Care and how he singled out the largest possible budget in Europe to support the birth and fight against the white plague. So, finally, did he ask him how he protected the safety of his citizens from the migrant raid? So, did the government of the Republic of Serbia take the opportunity to learn something from Viktor Orban at a joint session with the Hungarian government, or did it continue with the completely opposite policy of what Viktor Orban advocates. The second question, I ask all the competent state institutions, starting from the MUP, through the Ministry of Justice to various tax inspectors, as regards the business of Risticevic companies, the Seljak Zeka companies, which have been in bankruptcy for many years, who owe millions and millions for tax to the state of Serbia, who have a number of criminal charges for tax evasion, and who are actually saying that someone is protecting MP Marjan Risticevic, from state authorities. Well, I'm interested in how long the proceedings have arrived and the status of the company "Risticevic companies" and "Selak Zeka" who obviously have a problem with the law and have a problem with this country, but I guess because Marjan Risticevic is elected on the list -- Aleksandar Vukic Serbia wins, so well and worth the attacks and insults opposition MPs, he gets a release or indulgence, given that the president of the parliamentary group for co-operation, or friendship with the Vatican, gets an indulgence from Alexander Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia that his companies can owe for tax and do whatever he wants in this country. I am also interested in the qualifications of MP Marijan Risticevic, who was part of one of the funniest, most monstrosistic and simplest reality shows called "Farma", can be the chairman of the Assembly Committee on Agriculture in general? By what qualifications can he even be on the RFO Committee and receive an extra salary, and on what basis does he have anything to do with the Vatican Friendship Group? So, who protects Marjan Risticevic, and whether Marijan Risticevic is saying what Aleksandar Vukic means and wants to say, but must not, since he is playing this Protestant modernity.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6890	Just define who you're asking?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6891	I ask, therefore, the competent state authorities, the police minister, the minister of justice and the finance minister, and all those in charge, in particular the tax inspection. Since the companies "Risticevic companies" and "Seljak zaka"...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6892	No, I was thinking about a group of friendships with the Vatican, so I don't understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6893	I saved that for the end for you. So, for the president of the National Assembly, Ms. Maja Gojkovic, first of all, for the third week in a row, I ask when special sessions will be scheduled for the current topics, the security and economic social situation in Serbia in connection with the migrant crisis. Should it take migrants besides each other to start killing Serbian citizens in order for you to schedule this session on a security matter? International pressures on the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia regarding negotiations and the situation in Kosovo and Metohija? So, by Article 209. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, President of the National Assembly, shall, at least once a month, determine the day when individual ministers in the Government will answer parliamentary questions on the topic in question. It's been all of October, and it's been all of November, you Madam President, you're avoiding having sessions here on topical issues, and you're breaking Rules of Procedure, Rule 209? With that in mind, I'm interested in whether Thursday, since this is the last Thursday of the month, we'll have a session where we can ask the government parliamentary questions, or you'll avoid asking questions this last Thursday of the month, as you did last time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6894	Thank you. I didn't escape last time. This is where the prime minister was in the O.R., answering questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6895	Yeah, and four of the largest opposition groups didn't get a chance to ask him a question. What's it called? Avoidance.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6896	I hope we can talk today. I ask the MPs not to receive. So there were questions about the Rules of Procedure. Whenever we have conditions to ask a question, it will be. I don't know, when we have conditions and we don't, I don't know in advance. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: to continue where we left off last time.) ) We will continue at Gorica Gajević, and then a letter from the Verica Radeta, etc. My brain's still working, so I know about where we left off.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6897	That's not true, you don't know.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6898	That thing about the brain might not be true.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6899	I'm next.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6900	No, you're not.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6901	Yeah, look at the list.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6902	All right, MP. Today I agree that you'll all be right, except for me, but let's work. That's how you make compromises. (Radoslav Milojičić, from place: Return Balša Bozovic to session. ( ) Can I continue to give my word to colleagues who want to do a word and the ability to ask questions? About the appointment of the session, as soon as Parliament starts to work and we do our job, we discuss laws, and more important topics, I'll do everything I can to have that session. I don't even know how we're gonna end this one. Please don't ask me a question. I'm not alone. There's 250 of us here. One of the owners of the spell spring. One owner does not make the work of parliament, but 250 owners. The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6903	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am asking the question of the Finance Minister – why has the final budget bill for the Republic of Serbia for 2015 not yet been passed? We haven't adopted these laws since 2002, and there is a legal obligation under the Budgetary System Act. We should not adopt the budget for the following year, and the debate on it is here in front of us in a few days, or in a few weeks, until we bring the final bill for 2015, because only when we get the final bill, can we assess how successful the government was, whether it had a deficit or surplus in the budget, whether it was used in accordance with the Budget Law, whether the budget items were respected, whether the commitments were made to budget users, according to the dynamics set by the Budget Law, etc. The budget law itself is not a complete budget, general, legal act. It is being completed by the final budget bill, because our budget, this year, unless the final bill is passed next year, disappears, evaporates somewhere. We only listened to empty stories then that there were surpluses, that there were deficits, that there was this, that there was that. Let us once be assured that the budgets really did have a legal basis. As things stand now, no regime has considered it necessary to deal with this issue since 2002. He must have thought it was a waste of time, because they had the budget as they wanted, as they liked, as they were interested. True, the past few years have been the submission of the draft budget bill. It came as an act to the Assembly, but it was never included in the agenda. It is then an even worse situation, a complete play with the constitutional role of the National Assembly. Here, for 12 years we did not have this law, and the National Assembly did not get a chance to approve of the spending of public funds, and the basic constitutional authority of the National Assembly is that. It is a basic form of control of the executive authority and of all other branches of government by the National Assembly. Since we have never passed that law in 12 years, I think it is high time to warn the executive authority and that there should be MPs of all the parliamentary groups to be unique. The question here is whether we're going to be a civilised state or not. If we are not going to be a civilised state, then we do not need the law on the final budget bill, then we will leave it to the executive authority to have the money of Serbian citizens at its request, at its own free will. Then every item of the budget is a dead letter on paper, because it says in the budget -- it doesn't have to happen, and no one ever controls whether it's done. That's the situation so far. Are you going to change that situation or are we going to turn your budget bill into a final budget debate for 2015? We cannot declare the budget for 2017 until we adopt the final account for 2015.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6904	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6905	I am asking the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Serbia if and when will the Government of the Republic of Serbia fulfil the constitutional and legal obligation and deliver a proposal for the final account to the Assembly and for when is the debate planned under this bill? Why is this important? We've had a chance to listen to the results of a hundred days of government. After presenting these great and impressive results, the prime minister said, it marked the controversy whether we have a surplus or we have a deficit. Also, in the first hundred days of the government, we had the opportunity to see that the prime minister had been angry and angry countless times. I'll give you only two examples. One example is from Nis, where in broad daylight he criticized Mayor Nis for a deficit of 50 million or other examples, where he says he is angry with himself because he was getting the wrong information and false reports regarding the situation in "Serbia", "Azotari", MSK and other large systems. I am sincerely afraid that the prime minister receives these false and false reports on a daily basis and that this is actually the reason for his dissatisfaction with the work of the government of the Republic of Serbia, which he showed in submitting the report on the work of the first 100 days of the government. In order not to repeat such things, I expect the government to submit a report on the spending of the previous period, to look together at what is the real and real situation in the budget and how and how is it available to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I note, too, that this is the third time we have the first hundred days of government. Vucic's rule has already entered in the fifth year and we have heard three times at these conferences and submitted work reports for the first hundred days of the government, I'm afraid, mostly the same things and heard about how we will be better some of the following years since 2014, over 2015, 2016, and here we are in 2017. At each conference over a hundred days of government, that is, every SNS campaign and every government has looked back on three key pillars: one is fighting corruption and crime, the other is fighting poverty and the third is fighting unemployment. What do we have here in reality? In reality, we have, as regards the fight against corruption, and we have seen this in the European Commission report, the increase in corruption and crime, we have the results of the action "Secretor" and "Scaner" in which 175 people were arrested, but according to information that we can hear in public none of these people have been charged, nor has a verdict been issued, and any damage claims will be paid again by the citizens of Serbia. On the other hand, those close to the regime and close authorities continue to carry out their corruption activities and develop their businesses in all spheres, whether it is energy, whether it is agriculture, whether it is a building, whether it is the IT sector and hospitality. As for the fight against poverty, in Serbia today we have 620,000 absolutely poor people, around 9% of the total population in the Republic of Serbia. Of these, 268,000 received some kind of social assistance. So more than half of them have not received any funding and it is obvious that this long-declared fight against poverty also does not produce any results. In that category, absolutely poor, we also have a large number of pensioners who have been happily announced to receive one-time 5,000 dinars in December, while ignoring the fact that they have been stripped of 5,000 dinars every month since you passed the law to take the rights acquired by law. And, of course, as far as the unemployment rate is concerned, we're probably the only country in the world that reduces unemployment and doesn't increase the number of people employed. You simply manipulate and abuse statistics overnight reduce the number of employees from 22% to 15%. So there's no result. When we look at all this and look at it, we see that the prime minister's assessment of the government's positive results is clearly undermined by the untrue data he has testified that he was getting from his associates and that's why I suggest to the government that we receive an emergency bill on the final account, to see how the taxpayer's funds are being spent.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6906	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6907	A question for Prime Minister Vukic. At a conference for the government's press, about 100 days of government, and in some media shows, there were talk of very dramatic things. At one point, the prime minister accused parliament and violence in parliament as a possible announcement of bloodshed on the streets of Serbia. A question for the prime minister – who is it that prepares such a monstrous scenario? Why aren't we informed about this here in the congregation? I think we deserve to get information just about it. Why does not the Security Committee meet after all the security challenges in Serbia? At that same conference, about 100 days of government, and the government, here, in various forms is essentially the same 1,600 days, we hear that it capitulated before the law by publicly declaring that the government and the institutions of this state are not ready to implement the Law on the Prevention of Unlawful Construction in Novi Pazar, and we also remember the violence we saw in Savamalay and the destruction of objects without a legal solution. Together with this in Novi Pazar and Savamalaj, it is precisely that by law, without respecting the law, the Law on the destruction of illegal objects is not applied, and without legal decision and legal solution, objects in Savamaloj are destroyed. A question for the president of Serbia's parliament. In public, the thesis is that violence is present in parliament. Yes, the violence of an individual who attacks on the personal basis of some of the MPs, above all the MPs of the opposition, and we were witnesses and accused of prof. Micunovic at the Constitutional Parliament session when he extended the work of the Constitutional Session by one day. We saw the scene he was experiencing here at the chair and he was accused of committing a coup for 24 hours. So, the terms "state strike" are used in the opposition's indictment, "bloodbaths" are used, and we are witnessing that here, from these benches, we only hear messages that go towards a civilized dialogue. A question for Parliament's president -- why didn't she answer my request to schedule the College of Chiefs of Parliament Groups? I have initiated it, realizing that there is a growing atmosphere here that is not useful for this parliament either, is not useful for the state, and often this atmosphere is poured out into the streets and we see daily how much violence we have on the streets of Serbia. One more call from the president of the Assembly, and my initiative, which is to schedule the College before this session continues, so that the heads of parliament clubs can agree on the way we will continue to work, because what happened at the last session and the exclusion of the MPs of Balša Bozovic is unacceptable and beyond the Rules of Procedure. So, Vice-President Arsic took a break, and this has been proven in the stenograms, gave the first warning to MP Bozovic, and later, insisting on his injury to the Rules of Procedure, he received two more warnings from you and automatically with a third warning, unwarrantedly assigned, he received a disfellowshipping from the session. I urge you once again to schedule the College of Chiefs of Parliament Groups to civilize the Assembly sessions and to be responsible for the debates under such important laws and I believe that first of all, this is the greatest responsibility for you, because I am sure that violence comes right from the street, not in this room.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6908	I appreciate the question. The question was specifically, compared to everything you've described, the situation in the last 10 months or how long we've been working, we've been trying to work. The only question was when I'd schedule a college. That was a specific question. I'm trying to schedule a college, and I want the College to have all the heads of Parliament on it, as it says in the Rules of Procedure. So I don't want any deputies, emissaries, etc., but the heads of Parliament. You asked for the College and suggested the conclusion of this College to condemn the conduct of an MP. I don't want to schedule a college like that. I know how it would end. Friday's atmosphere would only be transferred to a smaller forum. A few of us would sit down because not all of the heads of Parliament's clubs were present at the afternoon session on Friday. So I want the head of the SRS, the SPS, the SDS, the NS. So, I want everyone here to be the heads of Parliament and talk about it, not condemning the behavior of an individual. Others would condemn the behavior of another individual, etc. That's not the way, if we're going to find a solution, to continue our work. So I will assess when the working conditions are achieved and when all the heads of the parliamentary groups are in the mood to talk about how parliament should look and what the fundamental role of parliament is in Serbia. We'll do it all on our College, and the subject you've imposed before those events... I'm not going to make an appointment to judge one MP, because it shows that everyone is pushing their own story again, and no one wants us to agree together what we're going to do and what we're not going to do in this House. I took a five-day break, but I'm still thinking about what this is all about. So my thinking process hasn't stopped since this morning. Why not, if that's the solution. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6909	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I would like to ask a few questions to the government and our prime minister. I can remind everyone that yesterday on the red letter of St. Arangel, in Nis, was another session of the Government of the Republic of Serbia together with the Government of the Republic of Hungary headed by our Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic and the Hungarian Prime Minister, Mr. Orban. I think it's very important for Nisavski County, for southeastern Serbia, because not only were there ministers and our Serbian and Hungarian ministers, but there were also a large number of economic operators from Hungary who wanted to invest with us in Serbia, in southeastern Serbia. There was a business forum of Serbian-Hungarian businessmen and a large number of contracts, pre-contracts, acquaintances were exchanged at the forum. One of these is investments that will be in southeastern Serbia, and that will also be in Srlig. That's why I wanted to ask the government and the competent economy minister -- did they reach agreements with other economic operators, in Nis, in southeastern Serbia with Hungarian businessmen? Finally, I know of at least five economic operators who came from Hungary to Serbia, to Nis, and made a pre-contract that the wood processing industry, the meat industry, works there. About agriculture, I would ask the same Minister of Agriculture – were some agreements made between economic operators related to the development of agriculture? It was discussed picking medicinal plants, investing in a healthy and living environment and helping us in southeastern Serbia, and finally with municipalities such as Svrlig, such as Bela Palanka, such as Gajin Han, to invest there in companies that will work with medicinal plants. The issue is the same for the competent agriculture ministry – whether it has been discussed cooperatively, because it is a very important branch for southeastern Serbia and normal for all agriculture, because we all know that the Hungarian economy and Hungarian agriculture are taking the upward path. I really thank our Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic, our government, the government of Hungary, because in Nis, the centre of Southeast Serbia, once again held a session of two governments. This is very important for the southeast of Serbia where we will be working in the next period and for the completion of the highways, highways and towards Sofia where we have been witnesses. The question is also for the competent minister of traffic – how long will the path towards Sofia end? Now, on Tuesday, or yesterday, on a red letter, we also went to a section of the highway at Proseko, and now it's almost 10 kilometers away. When will this be over? Will the road to Thessaloniki, or the highway to Greece that goes through Nis, be completed in the coming year? There is one more thing I would like to ask the Ministry of Agriculture – when and will the water-supply-supply fees be paid to our people, this is the fee given to the "Serbians", when will it be charged to our people? Because as far as I know in 2014, it was that fee. That goes from 100 to 500 dinars per land. This will require compensation for all those who have agricultural land. The question is, is it going to be this year or is it going to be one part of this year, and the other part is going to be the next year? I know that the big problem with water supply is, and another question would be “Serbian waters” – when will Timok, left and right water supply be solved in Srlig, because we have about 1,400 meters of wall that is not solved? There was a flood in 2011, and in 2010, and this is the jurisdiction of the “Serbian”? So, I think with these fees, if it comes to our farmers now, they're going to compensate you if there's a chance, to share. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6910	Time, thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Muamer Bacevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6911	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues, MPs, at first I would like to commend the City of Novi Pazar, the management of the City of Novi Pazar, for the very quality and time-consuming preventive measures against the floods, which were preserved in the last flood wave by the City of Novi Pazar. Namely, the responsible city government, whose backbone is the Sandzak Democratic Party, is really serious about citizens' property, to its citizens, and I must say that in our mandate we have resolved the crucial issues. First of all, the 40-year water supply problem has been solved by one serious approach we have, almost all the streets in the city have been paved. After poor experience from earlier years and after serious damage caused by the lush waters in Novi Pazar City, we have also made a serious programme with the help of European friends, above all Progress, since 2014 we have started building a mini dam. Then, with the help of 400,000 euros, we managed to build five mini dams, and now we're building four more mini dams and trust me that in Sandzak the only city that hasn't experienced the flood is the City of Novi Pazar. You saw what happened in Sjenica, in Tutin, what threatened Prepolje, downriver from Priyapol, Brodarevo and other parts were flooded. I would like to call on the "Serbian" that, by our initiation, by planning solutions, by constant controls, that the initial impulses by the administrations of these municipalities and that taught by one good experience that we have built in Novi Pazar, we are really preventing this kind of rampage of water, because we see that the climate is changing and that we preserve the property of the citizens who chose us to represent them in these fields. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6912	Thank you. The word is Daniel Stojadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6913	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Members of the People, in previous days we adopted the Law on Navigation and Ports on Internal Waters, the main topic in most discussions of fellow MPs is the Danube as our largest and longest water river, a waterway with international importance. Today, in this context, I would like to ask the parliamentary question of the minister of traffic, precisely in relation to the Danube, as an international waterway. The Danube is the longest river in the EU and the second longest river in Europe after the Volga, about 2850 kilometers long and represents a very important transport corridor, the Pan-European Corridor 7. It's the only inland waterway of 10 pan-European corridors. Through Serbia, the Danube evening is 588km from Bezdan to Timok. Of that, 137.6km is a common sector with Croatia and 299.35km with Romania. However, the Danube has one problem that does not allow optimal use of this waterway. It's a huge number of submerged ships, many of which are still from World War II. Only in the territory of Serbia in the bays of all three waterways, it is unofficially estimated to have about 650 sunken ships. This certainly affects the safety of shipping that is not compromised, but it is necessary to bear in mind that one part of these submerged ships is located on the edge of the waterway. Submerged ships represent an ecological, security and navigational problem in the Danube. In some wrecks there is a large amount of unexploded mines and other war techniques, causing further concern. On the other hand, one of the priorities of the Danube strategy adopted by the EU in 2011 is just to extract a wreck of ships from the Danube. For this purpose, the EU budget for the period 2014-2020 provides funds that are also covered by our country. As one of the major participants in the development of the strategy, Serbia identified its priorities for the Danube flow that flows through its territory. In addition to the Danube itself, cleaning and river canals, melioration, waterway planning and preservation of local cultural heritage are also covered, and the pilot project to clean the Danube from the sinking ships, which Serbia has proposed, has been approved by the European Commission, and our government has adopted. We know that the work of cleaning up the Danube is not easy, nor is it completely safe, because other than the wrecks of the ships there are unexploded funds and therefore requires special mechanisms and training of the staff to work on it. Just starting with the seriousness and weight of this job, which as a signator of the Danube strategy we have to do, this time I want to ask the minister of traffic – what is our country doing to carry out these tasks, what is the problem and is this job entrusted to someone? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6914	Thank you. Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6915	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the first question is for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. Rudi Juliani, former mayor of New York, who was here in 2012, participated in Alexander Vukic's mayoral campaign, said in an interview with SNN that he was in Belgrade in 2012 under contract with a London company that paid all the costs. The question for Alexander Vukic is – what does the SNS have to do with the London company itself, and why would a London company pay the costs of Rudy Giuliani to participate in an election campaign in Serbia? Second question for the prime minister. He gave an interview and a few statements at press conferences. I will now quote what he said: “It all started three days ago when something that had never happened in the congregation, and there was also a fight and a fight, and there was a crossover in the passage, but it was not that the whole assembly had come to another and wanted to be reckoned. Then it's like they want to fight or get beat up. No one in the Serbian public should ask the question - what are you doing here? You have your seat in the O.R., what are you doing with a parliamentary group that is 10 times your size? “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” On Friday, what happened in the assembly was verbal violence against opposition MPs, the DJB group, where we were brutally offended and we didn't get the word. So we couldn't answer, we couldn't replicate, we couldn't point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The chairman, five times in a row, gave the word to the majority, or SNS, who continued to insult. That's why we went out of the protest to get out of the O.R. We went out of the protest to go out the door opposite of us. The movement, or exit to any door in the congregation, is permitted. Free movement in the entire Republic of Serbia is allowed and then we are physically prevented from going out. There are two members of the Criminal Code that talk about this. Article 132 which says – whoever else unlawfully closes, holds a closed or otherwise renegotiates him and restricts freedom of movement will be punished by the imprisonment of three years and by a member of 133 who says something similar. Why does the Prime Minister, or Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, say these things when it is very clear that the incident is caused by our being physically prevented, detained, we are limited to the freedom of movement to leave the Assembly Hall? If that hadn't happened, we'd be out in 30 seconds. Then, he says from the same interview -- "one of their MPs spit out Risticevic. That's never happened. There was watering, but no spit, at least I don't remember. Then they cursed his mother motionless," the prime minister said. I'm quoting this from the press report. Then, Vukic points out that everyone said it was a conflict between MPs and the group, according to the DJB group and progressive Marijan Risticevic, and Risticevic is the victim of a brutal attack. The question for the Prime Minister is to give us one piece of evidence that anyone from the DJB parliamentary group has insulted anyone, spat on anyone and anyone else, I quote, "wrote the mother immobilized". This simply did not happen and it is completely inappropriate for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia to express these findings. This is also punishable under the Penal Code of Insultation, and damage charges are also possible. I'm the one who's been suing you, and I'm announcing it. Then, a question for the president of the National Assembly. The introduction of order in the National Assembly is very simple. This introduction of order is called for by the Rules of Procedure. All the instruments are in the Rules of Procedure. When someone insults gets a warning, when they say – a known criminal, a thief, a liar. There's a lot that says the SNS parliamentary group. It's very easy to stop it. The president of the Assembly not only does it not only, but allows such a thing, raises tension in the hall, and then, after that, when there is physical violence and attempts to prevent the parliamentary group from coming out of the hall, it completely ignores and utters warnings. If I were to remind the President of the National Assembly, to tell only someone - you were told a warning because of the disturbance, it would be much like if a policeman told you on the street - I am giving you a punishment because you are obstructing public order, and when you ask the question - and as you say it, here is another punishment. So there must be an explanation. There will be constitutional complaints and all other legal remedies against such behaviour. Such warnings during breaks and without any explanation can not be given. I remind the President of the Assembly on Article 4th, 287 which says - that he cannot ordinarily respond, but...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6916	Thank you. Time. Since I didn't get a single question, I got a finding, a description, etc. And I can't answer these sentences. There was nothing in the form of a question, especially in accordance with Article 287. We'll pass the question to the Prime Minister. Marko Parezenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6917	Thank you. Dear Presidents, respected colleagues, I refer the issue to the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, the Independent Association of Journalists of Serbia and the Association of Journalists of Serbia. The issue concerns the brutal spread of hate and the creation of a lynching atmosphere conducted by individual media towards the SNS and its MPs. For a long time, the opposition headed by the DS has been most apparent abuse of children for political purposes by accusing the SNS of being responsible because, behold, there is not enough money to treat children even though in the first 10 months of this year Serbia has sent 10 times more children abroad for treatment than in 2012. It's the atmosphere that creates that the SNS is to blame when a child dies. It goes even to mention that SNS is taking money from babies. One MP said in time that the SNS, or the government of the Republic of Serbia, was responsible because the tragic circumstances in Alexandrovac left two girls dead due to lightning strikes and all in order to provoke a reaction from the opposite side. We have a constant tendency to use children for political purposes and it has been going on permanently for the past few months. National MP Marijan Risticevic made a mistake. He spoke of something that should not be spoken of, but he also showed that he was willing to accept his mistake and make an apology. For days, however, there has been a media campaign aimed at presenting SNS as the biggest evil in Serbia, and it is done by the same people who have failed to respond and to condemn and who have been silent about media signs when Aleksandar Vukic is accused of sexually speaking to his son. In this assembly, Bojan Pajtic spoke negatively about the son of Alexander Vukic. There was no conviction even when Goran Jesic most brutally insulted the president of the National Assembly. Not to say exactly what he said, but everyone heard, and of course it's not the only example of hypocrisy. I'll give you one of the most obvious. Just a year ago, the current board member of the Davery of Chaga on his Facebook account called the SNS voters - the degens that are all around us, the half-wits with three teeth in their jaws that leave behind a slimy trail and you can see it here. No media, no association has called this occasion and condemned this hate speech. We have also repeatedly invited Boško Obradovic to fence himself from this and make an apology. That apology was missing. And what shall we do now, dear gentlemen? SNS voters don't matter. It only matters when the MPs and SNS officials are to be satanicized. Do you have the same relationship with all Serbian citizens, or are we just going to condemn one and the other things to close our eyes? Another question I want to ask the Citizens' Protector Sashi Jankovic, and the question is, is he ashamed of his last media advance? Incidentally, at this very political moment, the Citizens' Protector said that austerity measures endanger children in Serbia. So, right at this very political moment, I guess that just happened to occur to him. Sasa Jankovic has been the Protector of citizens since 2007. In the first five years of his term, he never asked the question of child endangerment, he never wondered if children's rights were at stake by economic collapse and national robbery. Today, when we have economic growth, the question of child endangerment arises, when we have had an economic recession for years, it was not important to ask that question. How poor must Sasa Jankovic be to use her children for her political promotion? Indeed, the question arises as to how long will the Serbian citizens have to pay the haughtiness and insolence of the Citizens' Protectors, and I will remind everyone that today he has three times the salary of the president of the state and the prime minister? That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6918	Thank you. The word is made by MP Borisav Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6919	Madam Chairman, I would like to address the question to you, the President of the Assembly. Why and when will the draft Code of Conduct be continued in order to be adopted as soon as possible? The final events of this issue are extremely, in my opinion, activating, to the extent that we came to the point that yesterday in the media we could read the statement of one of us, from this hall, is not the important name, not to mention, that MPs stink. I don't want to comment on a comment like this. I think that says enough about the need to bring the Codex as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6920	Thank you. The Code of Conduct in the past term worked by the Administrative Committee of the Republic of Serbia, not me. I don't know how far that worked. I do not participate, nor do I want to participate in the creation of the Code of Conduct, I think it is a matter of the heads of the parliamentary groups, if we are to bring a code of conduct that will satisfy all, and I ask the Vice-Presidents of Parliament to participate in this. I would prefer to see them here, work together and bear their share of responsibility for the functioning of this Parliament, not just one person and not just the President of Parliament. It is nice to be Vice-President of Parliament, and it is even nicer to be on the pillar of shame and to be responsible for all this that is happening in Parliament, and I do not want to take that responsibility alone. So, when the Administrative Board is ready to continue to work on this act, let it continue and let me know, and we'll talk about it, if we have to, if we have to, but it won't help any written rules if we don't start thinking about how we should behave ourselves and how we shouldn't behave. Not because of us, we can act in private as we please. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by MPs Zarko Obradovic and Marko Djurisic. We're going on where we left off on Friday. National MP Gorica Gajic submitted to the 15th amendment. The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6921	Thank you, Madam President. Well, here's the third day we're going into a debate about the Bill on the Prevention of Family Violence, and I would honestly like today's discussion not to look a bit like Thursday and Friday, especially on Friday night, because I'm afraid we've all had the chance to hear that we've sent a very ugly one, and I'd say a dangerous message to those we're discussing these days, and these are potential perpetrators of domestic violence, so just for one moment they're not asking themselves -- well, are these MPs in the Assembly going to tell us how we're going to behave in our family? So I sincerely ask the MPs to continue this discussion in this kind of normal and democratic tone. As far as Article 15 is concerned, The proposal for a law on preventing domestic violence, we simply tried to amend this first position, which says that a risk assessment should be adopted as soon as possible, simply thought that the definition or formulation of "as soon as possible" is relative, so for a competent police officer, who assesses the risk and based on an assessment of the risk of an order brings these emergency measures, could be enough for some two hours, for some five, for someone all day. So, in situations where violence is potentially reported, it's important to react quickly. We quickly think he should be engaged, and that's why we said six hours, believing it's quite enough to collect the necessary information and information within six hours to assess the risk and possibly give an emergency measure. We have also complemented Article 3 by saying that any state body in which the names of persons who are specialised or trained in acts of violence are obliged to assess the risk, in accordance with the general and special protocol. You all know that both the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the Ministry of Justice have brought, in their time, general and special protocols and have been acting on them for seven, eight years and I believe that we should remind ourselves that these protocols should not be left out when agreed and when measures are taken within all these relevant institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6922	Thank you. National MP Borisav Kovacevic submitted to the 15th amendment. You want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Borisav Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6923	Madam Chairman, I have suggested, Madam Minister, that two things be introduced in Article 15's second position as also important. I understand in your explanation that not all the things that are being evaluated here are not listed here, but I think that given the fact that, if you look at the statistics, the number of works that have been done that are, let me put it this way, inspired, in fact, the culprit for the execution of the act, that they are certainly in a significant place that should be listed, and these are material financial issues, are particularly expressed in violence against the elderly and especially the pensioners. The second thing that we've witnessed, here, is just to say, was this in Vojvodina, when it was a few months ago, where a man shot several people and killed for jealousy, I think the second question that is important, especially in marriage, is that we should assess whether there is marital infidelity and doubt about it and jealousy. I think the murders of jealousy are extremely statistical in the number of victims and subject to domestic violence. That is why I have suggested that these two things, regardless of all the issues are listed, but that among these more important ones, which include the term given at the beginning of the sentence "in particular", I think these two issues are also important. The second thing in my amendment was that I had to point out in relation to paragraphs 3 and 4, that it would be necessary if the text could be cut down and I suggested that the 4th member be deleted, but only on condition, as I suggested, if in the third position the first sentence "the competent police officer immediately delivered all available information on domestic or immediate dangers". If only the word “direct” were deleted but the other “hazards”, which would mean, of course, and the immediate danger, and everything else is the same, there would be no need to remain this position 4. That's why I suggested it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6924	Thank you. National MPs Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic together submitted the 15th amendment. The word is "Verica Radet."
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6925	Let us remind ourselves that we are talking about a bill on preventing domestic violence and that Article 15 speaks of an assessment of the risk of potential perpetrators of this violence. Among other things, the government's proposal states that it is especially important to take care that a possible perpetrator of domestic violence may also be a person who abuses psychoactive substances. We have suggested that instead of "abuse" it should stand "a person who uses psychoactive substances", because if we say that someone abuses them, it means that it is perfectly normal to use them. You, in your explanation, say you can't accept the amendment because you're legally using psychoactive controlled substances, e.g. medicines. This is a deception, because one is controlled substances, or drugs, and the other are psychoactive substances that are not allowed in the state of Serbia, both light and heavy, or any other. That is why it cannot be said that they are being “abused ” because by the very fact that they are being used, they are being abused. When it comes to, you have mentioned yourself, medicines, or some kind of medication, in the context of both this member and this law, we have talked about many reasons, the causes of domestic violence, but every time we have to draw attention to the responsibility of the state, to the responsibility of the authorities in the country. In this particular case, I would like to say that unfortunately in Serbia, completely free psychiatric patients are walking daily, letting them out of closed facilities on weekends or friends of the period without providing them with medication. Therefore, it must not happen that someone who is potentially dangerous to the environment, not only for his family, but for the environment at all, must not happen to be released from an institution of a closed type without being previously or cured, if he cannot be cured, or must be given appropriate medications when leaving that facility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6926	Members of the Parliament of the Dveri Group submitted together to the 15th amendment. Does anyone want to discuss it? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and the MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group together submitted. Here you go. The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6927	Thank you, Your Honor. We are proposing an amendment and I hope that you will amend and accept this amendment because if it creates a direct threat to domestic violence, and the deputy prosecutor does not impose the measures required by law on the Code of Criminal Procedure, the competent police officer shall give an order giving an urgent measure to the perpetrator. Article 14(1) - emergency measures are a measure of temporary distance from the apartment, a measure of temporary banning contact and a prohibition of access to the victim. Emergency measures can't be given to a minor. Unfortunately, while we discussed some more important things Friday, we had a situation that yesterday in the King also happened in a case where a woman was beaten to death. In Serbia, it happens, unfortunately, every 10 days. The Democratic Party stressed its desire to amend this law to the amendments at the beginning of the debate. It's a good thing this law is passed. We will never be against laws that are in the interest of our citizens, but we need to know that there is not only violence in the family, that there is political violence, that there is legal violence, and that exactly SNS is evidence that political violence is being committed against DS members and that such violence will always be fought and always advocated. For 26 years, we have advocated the rule of law, the rule of law, the rule of law, respect for diversity, and we will continue to advocate such values, and what happened on Friday, seen by Serbian citizens, serves you from across the street. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6928	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6929	Thank you, Madam President. I'll be very brief. I call on the amendment not to be accepted for the simple reason that the proposer himself is obviously not too interested in him. That could be seen from the discussion we've been listening to now. So, since some of these amendments still seem to see first and foremost as an opportunity to provide themselves with little space to talk to cameras about SNS, some kind of political violence, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6930	Ambassador, please, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6931	At the same time, I would like to say that this is unacceptable as a principle, so in that sense that whenever something like this happens, we react in the only possible way, by being disgusted on our part and by not accepting such sad excuses for the appearance of MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6932	Thank you. National MP Gorica Gajic submitted to the 16th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6933	Article 16 The bill is one of the key members of this proposal because it defines emergency measures and types of emergency measures. The bill provides for only two emergency measures – the measure of temporary distance from the possible perpetrator of violence and the measure of banning contact and access to the victim. With this amendment, we tried to draw attention to the fact that we simply think that only these two measures that are intended are somehow in practice and cannot be effective. We simply gave you that there should be two more measures — the measure of removing the victim or potential victim to a safe place in an address that is unknown to the potential perpetrator and the measure of removing the potential perpetrator elsewhere. You know what, if the victim comes in at night and complains that he can't go back to his apartment and the house where he lives with his wife, and happens to live in that same apartment or home and his wife's parents, this measure of temporary distance means taking him somewhere. The law does not stipulate where to put him for these 48 hours when he is given a measure, and in particular it is not envisaged where to put him for 30 days, if his measure is extended, how to return the potential victim to the house of the bully in which his relatives live, how safe she is to return to that same house again and how easily he may experience some kind of verbal violence by the parents of the husband who is somewhere. You're still saying that the emergency measure is given to a potential perpetrator who's been brought to the police. What if the potential perpetrator wasn't brought to the police? How does an emergency measure sound to him? How is it given to him because the measure runs from the moment of the handover to the next? What if he's on the run? How is the victim sure he's somewhere far away, if neither the police nor the victim knows where the potential unsub is? Furthermore, we have complemented the 4th position that orders issued to a potential perpetrator should indicate the consequences of not reporting to the police at the outset of these urgent measures. 'Cause you know what, 60 days in prison, up to 60 days in prison, criminal charges, believe me, those tough thugs who aren't foreign to coming back to violence, and there's no punishment for them. In the end, it is good that some amendment accepts that the victim should also be informed of an emergency measure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6934	Time. Otherwise, you only have two minutes per amendment. The word is Ljubiša Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6935	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I can agree with my colleague that there should be more urgent measures, but someone will say there are two small ones, but whether four is enough, and there is a problem. I think it's still something that only comes in the end. So now we're treating the consequences and not looking at what's causing it. To solve this problem as much as possible, or to bring it down to some minimum, we have to start from the earliest childhood of our children. We need to raise them at home and raise them through their education, not to be violent, and that's something that's wrong. I guess everyone here has their own children or their grandchildren or their relatives' children, so look at the educational programs on TV, or just look at the cartoons. The cartoons teach these kids to be violent, just to fight, to kill, to make some breaks and chaos. Is it a miracle, then, that these kids grow up to be thugs? It's not. So we have to start from the earliest days, from the earliest childhood to raise those kids so they don't get violent. I think it will give a lot more effect than if it has two, four, or more emergency measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6936	The word has a folk letter from Olivera Ognjanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6937	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister and Assistants, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I propose that the amendment to the 16th Proposed Law on the Prevention of Family Violence be rejected for the following reasons. First, Article 7 of the proposed Law states that the Head of the District Police Department determines police officers who have completed specialized training to prevent domestic violence and provide protection to victims, who have been identified as a competent police officer, and in Article 7 of the Law. The 13th and 14th laws describe the procedure from informing the competent police officer to the time of the assessment of the immediate danger of domestic violence and the expression of an emergency measure to prevent violence, so that the change of words from "special" to "specialised" is absolutely unnecessary. As for the other changes related to the expansion of the number of emergency measures, I believe that this bill implies a quite sufficient number of emergency measures of temporary distance for the perpetrator from the apartment and a temporary ban on contacting the victim of violence. What we haven't had in Serbia so far is the possibility that the problem or threatening situation should immediately be reported and temporarily remedied, thus allowing temporary problem solving. It is seen from the attached that the aim of the bill is, in fact, to establish standards that a bully should not stay at home, not only when a crime has been committed, but also when there is a direct danger of any form of violence, and in accordance with the principle of so-called. Zero tolerance against violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6938	Thank you. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 16th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6939	I thank you, President. Dear Minister, honourable MPs, the motive for submitting this amendment is more than clear. It's about who bestows an order when bringing a potential bully to a police station, and on the other hand, what is the order supposed to contain? If that order does not contain the basic data of the victim of violence, then it seems to me that the order does not have complete meaning or complete form. If criminal charges or an earlier decision to conduct an investigation, and now the order to conduct a public prosecutor's investigation contains basic data on the damaged, we have a victim of violence here, why wouldn't these data be contained in the order, because it's referring to the victim of violence? We don't have a victim of violence here in an order, and in my opinion, such data should stand, because both criminal law and judicial practice suggest that the injured, in particular, the victim of violence, must experience his or her identity and have an appropriate legal act. This is an order. Furthermore, I, along with my fellow MPs, was I in a dilemma whether even a warning to a bully or a potential bully should be contained in an order? A warning about what will happen and what consequences he will suffer if he does not act on an urgent basis. It seems to us that this warning has a character of prevention, that when he sees what awaits him if he breaks the emergency measure, or does not act as an emergency, it will effectively affect him not to commit an act of violence, because it is in principle something that prevents anything that can happen, given that some fellow Members of the people have observed in some way – what if, in this time period when an emergency measure takes effect, he goes somewhere, as it is said, into a pub, gets drunk, comes home, beats a woman, kills, doesn't give God, etc. It seems to me that this warning could work effectively and in any case prevent anything that could happen as a catastrophic or tragic consequence. To whom do you give the order? The order, by my deep conviction and by all of us MPs of the SPS, is necessary, in addition to the others whom you, the distinguished minister, have, for a reason, stated, so it is necessary, by us, to direct, or deliver, the victims of violence. Why? There are several reasons. The first reason is that the victim of violence must be informed of every stage of the process that is taking place, in order to prevent violence. But literally every stage, every detail, every element of that process. The second reason - if the victim of violence is informed that a potential bully has been detained for eight hours, that he has been given an emergency measure, that this emergency measure implies one of these two who have been proposed by the law we are discussing, in this situation we are already coming to calm the victim of violence, reduces tension, reduces its fear, degree or intensity of its fear will certainly be lower, because it is aware that the state has stepped in and started to act, that no longer a bully can behave the way it behaves. In a way, as I wrote it in the amendment, it comes to the so-called. The psychosocial stabilisation of the victim of violence, because from that moment on she realizes that she is protected, or that protection measures are being taken. Then why not deliver an order and a victim of violence in this situation? Because, if delivered, analoguely to my position, a court act damaged during the course of the criminal proceedings until the prosecution, or the initiation of the main investigation, then the victim of violence has a lot of right to be notified through the delivery of orders or any other act, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to calm down, to know what to do next, that the state is aware that, through its mechanisms, through its institutions, the state is going to step on stage, in a pessimistic manner, and it is beginning to act in order to protect the victim of violence. It was the meaning and motive of this amendment, and I ask you to reconsider the possibility of this amendment being accepted, because it would be very effective in the practical application of this law, a team that we did not resort to, and here we fully support you, the Austrian model of protection of victims of violence, because we do not have the conditions for such a thing. We don't have the conditions to provide them with complete isolation of a potential offender from the victim, but that's why we have the mechanisms contained in the family law and we have the mechanisms that are undeniably contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, which enables the suspect to act, the defendant, so that he doesn't return to the victim and that he doesn't commit a crime, which would be tragic consequences. In that sense, you have support, I'm just asking you to reconsider this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6940	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6941	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just to inform counterpart Nedjo Jovanovic that one of the amendments has already been accepted, where it has been proposed that the victim be informed of an emergency statement. So that's one of the reasons why this amendment wasn't accepted. I just have to look back on previous comments when it comes to the same member, as MP Gorica Gajević mentioned the introduction of further urgent measures. Your amendment also contains a proposal to introduce and detain. The Constitutional Affairs Committee rejected the amendment precisely for reasons of non-constitution, since detention can only be determined by a court rather than by a police officer. So, that's why we can't even discuss this amendment since it also contains a measure of detention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6942	Thank you. I can give you my word on the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6943	I thank you, President. I am now using the time of the mandated representative of the SPS parliamentary group. I thank you, Your Honor, for the explanation, and I am sorry that in one part of this amendment, this amendment of ours has come to an end or has in fact been identified by the amendment you adopted. Then there is only one species left, let me say, legal voids, when it comes to the form of orders, where we really believe that the legitimacy of the victim of violence must exist in the form of orders, and possibly, that this warning which we consider to be exclusively a preventive character and that, in some practical sense, words can achieve that purpose of prevention could make some sense in some potentially later changes and additions to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6944	Thank you. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Borisav Kovacevic. Would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6945	Madam Chairman, I accept an explanation for the second part of my amendment, which refers to the second part of this Article 16. But here, and so far we've talked all the time as we talked about previous amendments to this same article, we haven't further clarified what we're going to do, what we're going to do with the possible perpetrator and perpetrator of domestic violence if we don't put him in custody. I understand the police can't give him custody, but can they take all measures through the court to make an emergency arrest decision? Because I see here, and all of this that has been discussed before me, as the safest measure to provide a possible victim of this violence, and to ensure that the possible perpetrator does not carry out his intention. Because there's one very powerful and warning thing in this article that needs to be done so that tomorrow it's not the police or the court's fault that it happened. And that, gentlemen, is mentioned here. It's not the handing over of orders and a done deal, but when giving orders, a clear and direct person refused to take orders. Please, I'm not looking at it any different than his intention to refuse to do what he's up to. In such a situation, it seems to me that the measures provided for in this proposal are insufficient, because we're letting that face in with a high probability that he's going to break his emergency measures, and he's going to do, especially frustrated with all that's been happening, etc., he's going to come into the family, take that night, he's got nowhere to go, he's going to go home, and there's going to be chaos, slaughter, and I don't know what. Let's suggest another way to secure at least those first 48 hours in any way, that the person concerned, the possible perpetrator of violence, doesn't get into a situation at all that he can do. This way, if we let him go, we'll leave him absolutely at will whether he does it or not, and we've seen from numerous examples, just what we had in the media, what kind of lunatics there are, free to say it. The one at the Maltena Surf would have killed everyone who was there if he had more options. Therefore, I do not plead that this proposal is best and that it should be accepted, but come on, I appeal, Madam Minister, to you, to look again and to resolve this issue, because it is a key issue for me in all of this. Someone said that in the beginning, it seems to me that Mrs. Gajic, that this is one of the key members of this law, because the authorities of the law, the judiciary, will not in this way do all that is necessary to prevent violence and do not give God murder or multiple murder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6946	Parliamentarians Natasa Mihailović Vacic, Jasmina Karanac and Dr Ivan Bauer submitted to the 16th amendment. The government and the Justice Committee, the state administration and local self-government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? The word is Natasa Mihailović Vacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6947	Thank you, President. Dear Minister, I thank the Serbian Government for recognising the importance and importance of this amendment to Article 16. The proposal for a law on preventing domestic violence, which refers precisely to informing the victim of violence of an emergency, exactly what my colleague Jovanovic was talking about before me. Two years after the Istanbul Convention of the Council of Europe on the Prevention of Violence against Women and Violence in the Family entered into force, our country is harmonising the legislative framework with the Convention and adopting a special law on preventing domestic violence. One of the basic objectives of this law, which is to prevent violence, protect the victim and support the victim, is contained in Article 16 which regulates emergency measures as well as how he implements them, prescribes the content of orders, deadlines, etc. What was a lack of that key member representing the backbone of the law was just to inform the victim of an emergency by the competent state authority. I am pleased that the Serbian government has seen the importance of the amendments and has accepted that the victim of violence is included in a fundamentally important notification of the measure against the violent. Why does it matter? That's exactly what my colleague Jovanovic was talking about. The victim of violence must be informed of every stage of the procedure, because any notification has been made, and in this case the first notification of the statement and implementation of the emergency measure is the first respite that the victim has and its first calming. That's one. Under two, it certainly reduces both the degree and intensity of fear that unequivocally has the victim of violence. Third, well that's the beginning of actually the victim's recovery. It's an introduction to what the law calls psychosocial stabilization of the victim. Since the government has adopted this amendment and it has become an integral part of the law, this concludes my presentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6948	Members of the Parliament of the Dveri Group submitted together to the 16th amendment. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6949	The explanation of the amendments we have submitted is in the spirit that the practice so far has shown that the functioning of similar coordination and co-operation groups did not yield the desired results and that they should not be formed there. We have two problems here. The first is that when someone wants to hide a problem or wants to avoid the right to solve the problem, then it forms various commissions, coordination, co-operation, and it has always been the best way in Serbia not to solve the problem. Since the famous anti-corruption task force formed by Aleksandar Vukic, when it came to power and from which, as we see today, there is nothing, so also in this case it is transferred somehow to coordination and co-operation. Just in another explanation why another amendment was rejected, the government itself says that there is often an overload of certain laws, so I will quote that part: "By accepting the amendment, the law would make it not clear and unsettled enough. “ The legislator feels that it is better to leave room for co-operation than to prescribe rigid rules that are in their nature that can lead to misunderstandings in practice. According to the concept of the law, a competent police officer and a public prosecutor, it refers to the amendment, are in a permanent relationship and can be consulted by taking urgent measures before it is said. So, in one place, we have an overload and we're looking for groups to co-operate and co-ordinate, we're looking for something that they should already do in the nature of their work, and nobody's stopping them from being in co-operation and coordination, but we're passing a law that forces them to be in co-operation and coordination, or here we're going back to that principle comment that Davery had about this whole law -- is this the law that only forces the state authorities to co-operate and co-ordinate, and they had to be without this law to co-operate and co-ordinate? Is this a violation of the legal norm and, in that sense, is the government contradictory of its suitability? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6950	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6951	Thank you very much. I call for it not to be accepted, among other things, and because the Government is absolutely not contradictory, but is an MP, as in the government's response to a little consultation on the answer to another amendment, it reads the wrong explanation. If he had read the right explanation, i.e. on the amendment of the same proposings to Article 15, he would have seen that these groups are well planned for a good reason, and that is because there is an important task in front of them, which is to deal with an individual protection plan. So that's the answer, not what he read. Although this lack of attention doesn't need to be taken literally. He's certainly, as something else we've had a chance to see today, I hope only twice and never again during this debate today, because she doesn't deserve it, trying to take a little time. Again, you need to understand, some need to take advantage of every second of the TV broadcast, since they seem to have failed to run for common...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6952	Ambassador, you'd like to be kind about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6953	Yeah, yeah, I just finished. So, those who need to advertise a little...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6954	So it's just about the amendment. If you have any arguments, you do, and if you don't, you don't. Members of the LSV - Green Group together submitted to the 16th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6955	Thank you, President. At the beginning of today's debate, I would like to express my satisfaction on behalf of the LSV that the proposer of this Bill for the prevention of domestic violence has respected two amendments to the LSV and, despite the other amendments not adopted, the unquestionable need for the adoption of one of these laws and, in particular, the intended intention and goal to be achieved, although it is quite clear that we cannot finally end this problem, but that this is really just the first step. However, this is not the case with this amendment to Article 16 and I would ask Minister Kuburovic once again to pay attention to our proposal for this amendment intervention and in the hope that he will take this into account, given that this is, as my predecessors said, a fundamental member who is actually dealing with all the competent authorities when the conditions for expressing an emergency or urgent measure are obtained, since both can be expressed at the same time. In fact, we have suggested adding three new positions within this article. Paragraph 6, 7 and 8, and the first would read: “If there is a measure of temporary distance from the apartment, it is stated in the order that the person to whom the measure is spoken take the keys from the apartment which will be returned after the expiry of the measure, that the person is allowed to take his personal belongings and that the person is informed of the possibility of temporary accommodation if he has no place to stay during the duration of the measure. ” One part of the explanation that we have received, and for the rejection of this amendment, is that in practice this problem is solved by being able to replace the locks on the door. However, we do not think that the victim or potential victim should be left with the power to change the lock, especially when the timing is very problematic, given that the first 48 hours are the most difficult, and this coincides with that other explanation when the Ministry says that this is the period when the victim needs a break, and that in that sense we consider that the keys, as a symbol of ownership of the apartment, are one of the measures that still needs to be taken into account and that this is normable by law, instead of leaving the victim to find out whether he is going to change the lock or not to change the lock. Paragraph 7, which we propose to prescribe by law, refers to the previous position, which reads: “If a person who is given a temporary distance from the apartment refuses to hand over the keys to the apartment, this will be considered a violation of the measure laid down in Article 35(1) of this Law. ” I think it's quite clear why this attitude is proposed. The last position we are proposing, partly taken into account by colleagues from the SDPS, which is that a competent police officer is required to immediately inform the victim of violence of a given measure, enables her to receive a copy of the orders. What distinguishes our proposal from the previous one that has been adopted and has become an integral part of the bill's proposal is the addition "and present to it the number of phones on which they will be able to report any violation of the measure without delay by the person to whom the emergency measure has been imposed. “ In addition to informing the victim that the measure has been made, we feel that she would even know to report a breach of the measure, if it comes to it, that it is necessary to refer to the victim, of course, whom she can report a breach of the measure, but who she can also turn to for help. Accordingly, I appeal, as I said at the beginning, to Minister Kuburović and her team to take into account this proposed amendment once again, so that we do not actually get into trouble, not knowing what happens to a bully or a potential bully, after saying the urgent measures, that as much as we can, we are still norming the law, given that we do not have any control mechanism or follow-up of the bully after the measure, and we also cannot be sure that he will act so securely, so he applies himself as the bill foresees after 48 hours, to hear, see, learn what decision he then made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6956	The word is from MP Vlado Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6957	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I suggest that this amendment is not accepted because the whole law, as its basic assumption, assumes that the perpetrator of violence has committed no crime, which is why the role of a public prosecutor and a police officer is very important in this case. If a crime is committed, it is done under the second law, that is, the Criminal Code. Considering that over the past year, about 120 women were killed by violence, acts of monsters simply deprived of life, leaving the entire public in shock. This year, the thugs continued the same actions, so that by now about 35 women have been killed, and the number of those over whom any form of violence has been committed has been drastically higher. Much is not reported to continue the process and perpetrators are brought to the face of the law. Because of this, the struggle for gender equality must be common, because it represents, as such, not only one civilizational step, but it is founded in our Constitution and legal acts. The question arises – how many of us, as a civilized society through institutions dealing with this problem, can we first and foremost stop this fire of violence that is taking on a growing wave, which has the characteristics of spreading and increasing violence against women and family violence? During last year, a systematic basis was laid to reduce these unpleasant events, as the Ministry of Justice has created one platform to solve this problem, i.e. this system basis foresees a two-based fight against crime, against half-freedom and crimes against marriage and family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6958	Thank you. Just the minister to answer and I'll give you some more.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6959	Thank you. As far as your proposal is concerned, which is the extent to which the key is taken, I think there would be an overload here and we wouldn't be able to sort out any possible situation that can be predicted. On the other hand, it should be borne in mind precisely the specificity of this procedure, if it were neither a criminal procedure nor a domestic violence suit, which is conducted in a litigation procedure, where protection measures can be imposed, and they would be in a situation where urgent measures are significantly more limited to the rights of the perpetrator, or potential perpetrator, than persons who would be held liable. You also state the possibility of the unsub being taken back to his apartment to pick up his personal belongings, that's how the victim's contact is made precisely during that short period of time when they need to be separated. I think these questions should nevertheless leave practice to regulate. When it comes to lock change, I don't think the victim has to do it himself, but the police can replace the lock, depending on the specific situation in question.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6960	Here you go. The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6961	Thank you. We will, however, ask that once again, while the debate is ongoing, consider, given that the measures we have proposed through these proposals go in the first place in the direction of the victim's protection and, in fact, further encouragement to victims to report such cases at all. Because if the victim, starting with the experience that such a normized law provides, think about it -- why would I even report violence when he will at any time, freely and walking in the window and kill me, for example? I don't know how many of these specifics give her the confidence that she's making sense to report violence, and it's all going towards encouraging victims to report. You must know that domestic violence is the rarest thing reported. The assessment of NGOs, I'm sure you have more specific data, is that we have 15 to 16 non-reported violences on one reported violence and that such provisions also in terms of the protection of victims encourage victims to report violence, feeling security through legal norms. And especially if we have in mind that every violence against a woman, in particular when it comes to violence against women, between two partners, a mate, an out-of-marriage, whatever, is always violence against children, if there are any in the family. We, when children in the family are present, always have multiple violence. At least double, and very often multiple violence, given that it is mainly about families, i.e. partner relationships that are in a more difficult economic situation, with multiple children, and I ask you to, for the sake of meeting actually victims and for the sake of further incentive to report these cases, and the only security potential victims have through this legal basis and normisation to take into account, regardless of their return, after taking personal matters and this would be controlled by the police involved in this case, so that it would really be under absolute supervision and I think, as well as my colleagues from LSV that it would be better to set it up than to leave open space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6962	Thank you. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. The word is by MP Dusan Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6963	Thank you. I have submitted an amendment to regulate the situation in which the competent person avoids or refuses to accept a report when the victim of violence submits a report. Here it is found in Article 16 that it is a police officer who should react and express an emergency. What happens in case a cop doesn't want to do it? Why am I saying that? Well, because in the last few years, many times, or from people who deal with this problem in practice, or from victims of violence themselves, we've heard examples, real examples from practice, when police don't want to respond to these kinds of applications. Of course, now it will be a little less reduced by the fact that penalties have been imposed for refusing to accept applications, so whoever doesn't want to listen to what the victim has to say, he'll be punished, so he'll probably reduce the level of avoidance of responsibility. But what if it does? Unfortunately, we don't have any information here about how many cases there are. We don't really have any data, even though this topic can be very exactly covered, I think it's a big problem that we're now discussing this law without adequate data. I suggested that in the case of, therefore, this amendment that I suggested, that in case the police didn't want to react, I repeat again, these are examples from practice, I don't make up anything, if the police didn't want to react, then the victim, if he wanted to continue to report a case of violence, could address the Centre for Social Work, which can then activate the police that should then react, then they would already have some written leads about what happened. I'm sorry, the government has rejected this amendment. I suggest, if possible, that we have some information about these things and try to think about this one more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6964	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6965	Thank you. I don't think your explanation was in the context of the member we're discussing, because you're just talking about not treating a police officer on the application. We're talking about emergency measures here. If he does not act on his application, there is certainly the possibility of disciplinary responsibility that we have provided for this law. If we look at what you've written, suggested by the amendment, it's not in agreement with what you've been telling us right now. You stated that if a police officer did not bring orders after the first request of the victim, which means that he was still acting on that application, he just did not consider it appropriate that in a specific case there was a basis for giving an emergency measure or not. So it's not about not acting like a police officer, because just by assessing the danger and degree of risk, he can determine whether he can make an emergency or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6966	Thank you. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6967	I thank the chairman. Madam Minister has already explained part of what I wanted to comment on, about this amendment. I believe that the amendment should not be supported, because this amendment contains a serious danger in itself, which is that we disrupt some kind of, conditioned to say hierarchical order and to put above the commanding function of the Centre for Social Work, which has a completely different function in this procedure, in this law and in general in its work and in its operation in relation to police officers. I think the adoption of such an amendment could create serious problems in the continued functioning and operation of other state bodies whose work has already been fully defined. I think this is also one of the amendments that would lead to us crossing a line that is very thin here, between a special criminal code and preventing domestic violence and a bill on preventing domestic violence. I'm afraid with these, as with the previous amendments, if they were adopted, we would simply write me a new criminal code, for which there is neither room nor opportunity nor need at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6968	Thank you. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Branka Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members Milorad Mircic, Verica Radeta and Zoran Krasic together submitted the 16th amendment. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6969	When some of the provisions of the bill are read, there could somehow be an impression that there is no serious fear of domestic violence. Unfortunately, it's not like that. Violence in the family, so-called peer violence at school, violence on the street, violence at work in the form of mobbing, violence in every place. There's more to it. More and more present, but somehow, I'd say the competent authorities aren't doing well at least trying to prevent such negative phenomena. One of these members, based on which we would say we don't have to worry much, is this 16 that we're talking about right now. You're predicting as an emergency temporary measure of the distance of the violence factors from the apartment, with the victim staying in the apartment when that one happens, let's call him, an incident or domestic violence. This, believe me, means nothing. We have suggested that instead of having an obligation to care for the victim of violence in an appropriate institution of social protection until it is determined that there is no danger of further domestic violence. You, or a police officer, realizes that violence took place, takes the bully, leaves the victim in the apartment with whom, in which relations other family members have with the victim, and in whose relations with the bully, the side they will stand. What happens when that bully or that bully gets back to his apartment in a little while? What happens to the victim of violence then? The law can't act like it doesn't know what's really real in life. You know very well, Madam Minister, that such things happen, that when a possible perpetrator of violence is removed, when after a short time he returns to his apartment, then the victim goes worse than what happened to her and what happened before she reported the violence to that victim or someone from the family, someone from the neighborhood or wherever. You gave this authority to a police officer. Someone has to do it and we understand. We can't, and we don't want to judge the apriors, and we don't want this guy to do his job either, and he won't do his job, but unfortunately, he's almost done it. Here, quite accidentally in the area where I live, there have been several attacks in the family building these days, apparently underage faces in the middle of a white day on women outside the front door of their apartments. One ended up in the hospital because he broke her chain, so she dragged her down the stairs, had surgery, etc., not harmless at all. The other maltene was pulled out of his ear because they pulled her by the earring. What happened when they reported what happened to them to the police? The officer on duty who came, then the duty inspector they were at, he said -- you know, ma'am, it's not just you, unfortunately it's a everyday phenomenon. That can't be the answer to someone who's the authority to stop it. It must not happen, as social work centres must not neglect their protégés. We were all probably appalled by information, which appeared in the media two days ago, that in the village of Leban, a 12-year-old girl was raped a few hours, a few days, a few months, a few years ago, we still don't know how many, that five were doing it, so now she's been arrested, or held in custody, I guess three men who can be her grandfather for years. What's the social worker doing here? The whole family is a social worker. That girl and her two brothers are children with special needs. And the Center for Social Work gives away a few thousand dinars a month. The postman takes or goes to the post office to take that money and the Centre ends the story with such families. The Center for Social Work has to take care of every family that's a ward of the center, and if that were the case, then that kind of creepy thing wouldn't happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6970	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will work today after 18 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word has Minister Nela Kuburovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6971	Thank you. Here, just briefly why it is important that the Coordination Group works and that they have the powers proposed by this proposal, which is precisely that if the Coordination Group can also suggest that the victim be taken care of by the appropriate institution. These are the administrative powers given to them by this law. So I don't think it should be proposed as a mandatory measure in any case in which a police officer would say it, since the question is then asked – why is the immediate measure of the restraining order in place, or the distance from the apartment if the victim is to be placed elsewhere?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6972	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6973	However, I think we should accept our amendment and repeat, Mrs Kuburovic, primarily based on what is happening in practice. It's almost impossible for a bully to be so kind and calm that after a while, he comes back to his apartment and the victim won't still have the status of the victim, he won't have a problem. You see what's going on, that someone you take away from the apartment, he waits for a woman in front of a kiosk where she works, in front of a workplace, and unfortunately beats her to death. There are simply such things that the state must be more rigorous than the perpetrator and much more careful than the victim. Just writing laws and passing laws with one of these norms will not contribute to what I believe is your intention and yours as a legislator and certainly those who will vote for this law as a legislator. Believe me, it doesn't cost you anything to accept this amendment, and you'll make every sacrifice much safer because you won't report a bully to any victim who knows that he'll be back in her apartment after eight hours, he hasn't even sobered up or sobered up yet, because violence happens both by men and by women and by other family members and by children, etc. If you truly want to achieve something in this area and if you want to really protect these victims, accept this amendment. He can't bother. He can do a lot of good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6974	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Amendments, in the same text, to which the name of the member and Article 16a is added after Article 16. National MP Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojic, Maja Vidinović, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Comić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Jesic, Dejan Nikolic, Veroljub Stevanović, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic and Tomislav Žigmanov submitted. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6975	Thank you. Our amendment wants to fully clarify the situation that a specialized police officer has come out, a risk assessment has been made and no emergency measures have been made. So it's missing normally in the basic text of the law. The amendment that I am about to explain is not accepted by the argument that each risk assessment is submitted to the public prosecutor, which we do not dispute. Either we didn't write the amendment right or you didn't read it right. Maybe Rumbrum's wrong. So the rumbrum we're proposing is an emergency procedure. It would have been better if we had written – dealing with a risk assessment. That I suppose would be clear. Namely, what's this about? What if a specialised police officer made a risk assessment, passed it on to the D.A.'s office, didn't say an emergency measure, what happens next? Absolutely nothing. Our proposal is to leave the public prosecutor with the possibility, so he can order, just leave him an opportunity. Why is this amendment, I would like that, we may not have clearly written it, but at least in this dialogue, to clarify exactly what we want, which situation of life we see, so that either by accepting the amendment or you find out who's going to write you the amendment or simply to bear in mind that you have real situations of agreements between a working officer and a victim and a bully, it's simply a real situation, that you don't give emergency measures. You have a real corruption situation between a bully and a acting officer. You have a life in which a specialized police officer will bring creation, writing a risk assessment of whether he has a basis to express an emergency measure or not. So that you don't suspect that it happened because of corruption, because of the deal, because of a potentially poor assessment, which is the same thing, then you say, because risk assessments are going to the public prosecutor anyway, he can, whether or not, it's not now, that I'm not mixing the prosecution into this law, let them solve it with their protocols or you with them together, but by limiting one space that anyone who does a risk assessment knows that it's not just a matter of disciplinary violations, looking at the quality of his work by the protocols within the service itself, but simply being able to be different consequences of which he or she is overlooked, not saying an emergency measure, or agreement, breaking ethical rules, or corruption, by making a criminal act, decided not to impose. It was the idea of our amendment and we have awareness that the risk assessment was delivered to the prosecution, but we know what it looks like in life. So, I would like it to be, at the moment, not procedurally possible for us to change the text of amendments, to change the edge, to see that it's a risk assessment done, to be absolutely clear about what is going on, but whether you accept our amendment, whether there's a way for the parent board to propose something similar in agreement with the government, I don't need our names there, it's important that those who are in a situation to do a risk assessment, that they know that she's responsible in any case, and that if she gives an emergency measure and if she doesn't give an emergency measure, and that there's someone who's objective, who's not on the spot, who doesn't collect information where the violence is happening, that the rules of risk assessment, so, someone neutral who can act. I don't just want to mention, although it's attractive for speech, the worst kind of example -- that there was a risk assessment done, that there was no immediate measure and that four days later, three days later, there was a murder in that same house. I know a cop can say yes, but I've been making an assessment of what I've found, and I know he won't be guilty, but I just think leaving the prosecutor's ability to react, if he will, in the end we're doing a favor to those on the front line of the fight against violence, they're specialized police officers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6976	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6977	I thank the chairman. I do not dispute the motive for submitting such an amendment in order to improve the quality of the law, however, I believe that the proposer had to formulate the amendment differently, because the very formulation of the amendment is not in practical terms applicable for two reasons. The first reason, in accordance with the provisions of the Code on Criminal Procedure of Communications of Police Officers and Public Prosecutors, continued and exchange of information and data is always present. What does that mean? This means that in the case of the exchange of information between a police officer and a public prosecutor, new circumstances arise, we say to lawyers "benefie legro", there is no limit for a police officer to bring orders and impose an emergency measure. There's no limit, there's no interference, that's one. Two, this law provides for a deadline, though, for us, to be honest, the deadline is short, 24 hours, but within 24 hours, the attorney-in-chief, we say, is required to collect appropriate notices, facts, data relating to a specific situation requiring the need to express an emergency measure or possibly not to give an emergency measure. It is within 24 hours, when the prosecutor collects relevant information and assesses that these data have relevance, he will also give it to the police administration, a competent police officer, who doesn't even have to be specialised, who has to act under that data. Here, higher in law, the Honorable Minister, there is a duty for specialised police officers to monitor the situation in continuity. There's no discount of time here when he's released from monitoring the situation, when he no longer has to take care of the victim. He has to take care of the victim continuously, continuously, every second. As a result, it seems to me that the very formulation of the amendment is not acceptable in order to achieve, in practical terms, the result that the amendments wish to be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6978	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6979	The law should be discussed when we see how each member refers to a person or to a sector. So, the house of Mary and Mark Maric, at the invitation of their 16-year-old daughter, came out the police. A specialized officer has made a risk assessment. Risk assessment, hypothetically, therefore, risk assessment says – there is no need to express emergency measures. That risk assessment goes to the D.A., with her more, my colleague, nothing can happen under this law until a new report that violence happens, nothing can happen to her anymore. It is fully aware of how much the law is on the verge of what is common legal system, where the Criminal Law, the Law on Criminal Procedure, the Law on Public Order and Peace, Family Law, everything else, is fully aware of how good the idea is to bring it in, it is our proposal just to say that within the time when a risk assessment is carried out on the table, because you are right when you say – an assessment of the risk of the prosecutor's sea on the table, so it must, I'm just saying – let him act. I'm not asking this law to prescribe how the prosecutor will act, but that he can act. Otherwise, I'm afraid we're going to have, percentage and nominal, a lot more cases where the risk assessment is done without the emergency measure being said and nothing will happen to anyone. So, just to keep in mind that violence is a real life, that it happens in families and that we try to protect the most dangerous place for the victim, which is the family, which is home, and to ensure that there is no interpretation of the law and there are no empty walkways that would allow us all to essentially have a story about how we've adopted a new regulation, and that in real life it changes too little.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6980	The word has Minister Nela Kuburovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6981	Thank you. I support your idea and what you've explained now, I understand the essence, but what the amendment contains is not entirely appropriate. The first position of the proposed amendment is already, in some ways, contained in Article 15, but the second position has a controversial part where it says the public prosecutor can order. Since it is not a criminal procedure and the application of the CAP, which can give those powers to the public prosecutor, this part has also been disputed and therefore the amendment has not been adopted. I hope that through sublegal acts, which should be brought together by both the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Justice, individual issues can be regulated and that mutual co-operation and coordination are prescribed in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6982	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. The amendment, added after article 16a, was submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Enis Imamovic, Natasa Micic, Dr Zarko Korac, Nenad Milic and Bajro Gegic. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Natasha Micic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6983	Thank you, Chairman. The amendment is very similar to the previous amendment and, of course, does not diminish the importance of this law, which is first systematicized by provisions that norm the prevention of domestic violence, it is up to all of us here both on MPs and on government representatives to contribute as effectively as possible, to the better application of this law in practice. One of the weakest traits is a risk assessment. That's why, I was talking about, we submitted an amendment to Article 15 that we asked to define the risk assessment process ourselves, and this amendment, which adds, therefore, a new Article 16a, in fact defines a situation in which a specialised police officer decides that there is no basis for an emergency measure and we foresee the obligation to inform the deputy public prosecutor, the social work, the coordinating body, the possible perpetrator and the victim. Also, we suggest attitude 2 in which we give authority to a public prosecutor to order a police officer to reconsider the case. Thus, it is more precise to define a situation in which a police officer is able to carry out a poor assessment, or to decide that there are no emergency measures. In that case, we give authority to the public prosecutor to correct the possible mistake, the failure. I don't see why it wouldn't be raised to a higher level, to a legal level. But the minister said in case the amendment is not accepted, one or another similar, it's very important that you regulate this in sublegal acts and that you have in mind, so that there is no practice of a vacuum, which could be fatal and of course lead to new victims.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6984	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. The amendment, which is added after article 16a, was submitted by MP Gorica Gajic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6985	Mr. Chairman, it is important that this is obvious, since the majority of us who have submitted a similar, or quite similar amendment, after Article 16a, is exactly what happens when a police officer, and the distinguished minister, if you have followed the discussion and colleagues of Nedje and counterpart Gordana Komic, you have seen that they have very often used or almost always said "specialized police officer", "special police officer" or "specialised public prosecutor". That is why it was one of the proposals to put "specialised" in this law, instead of "competent". You can see that it's already just come to life in our discussions. Yes, it's important that we know what's going on if a police officer, a competent, specialized, doesn't express an emergency. So, first of all, if I didn't repeat myself in the discussion, that's where the situation ends with reported violence, no immediate measures, so the officer assessed it, and you didn't predict who he was informing. Yes, in Article 15, you predicted that when you assess the risk and see that there are no grounds, it also informs the Centre for Social Work and the General Prosecutor's Office. Here, when he does not express an emergency measure, or correct me, and if he is, no one is scheduled to be notified. So he needs to notify the same basic prosecutor's office, inform the Center for Social Work and inform the potential perpetrator that he was not given the measure and that the victim was informed. If you have adopted the amendment that the victim has been notified and when the measure has been made, it should be notified and when the measure has not been made, because certainly the victim will certainly behave differently, and to God and a potential perpetrator, if they know and if they are informed that the emergency measure has not been made.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6986	Bringing the end, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6987	If you haven't already accepted these amendments and colleagues Natasha and counterpart Komic, where does it say that the primary prosecutor's office is ordering the police, why don't you accept this one, where is it said to be required? It's a milder formulation, and in that case it would be acceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6988	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Gorica Gajic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Member of the 17th Amendment was submitted by MP LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The People's Messenger, LJupka Mihajlovska, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6989	Thank you. The idea of this amendment was to add Article 17 to Article 4 which would read: "The Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Interior in co-operation with the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office will adopt a Regulation on the assessment and evaluation of the risk assessment within three months of the date of entry into force of this law. “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” This amendment has been rejected. The government's explanation states that the government does not accept the amendment because the issue of risk assessment is such that it escapes strict regulation of rights and obligations. We thought he'd be restrictive and not predict what that rule wouldn't have meant. But you, in Article 15(2), already have some indicators that indicate that a police officer can carry out an assessment, and in Article 17, you say that the prosecutor is studying the information and valueing the risk assessment. On what grounds is it worth more? I don't see why this couldn't be contained in the law, especially because it's already become a practice that after the law was passed, then we have a guidebook for law enforcement, so a guidebook for law enforcement and then some powerful means are spent to draw arrows, circles and various instructions as it applies. I think it would certainly help the police officer in charge. I don't see why this wouldn't be contained in the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6990	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) Members of the 18th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojic, Maja Vidinović, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komić, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Jesic, Dejan Nikolic, Veroljub Stevanović, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic and Tomislav Žigmanov. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Srdjan Nogo, Bosko Obradović, Dr Dragan Vesovic, Marija Janjusevic, Mr Ivan Kostic and Zoran Radojić together submitted to the 18th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Gorica Gajic submitted to the 18th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6991	Dear Chairman, Article 18. The bill foresees the court's conduct in the first degree, i.e. the court's conduct in the process of extending the emergency measures imposed by the police officer. We simply found it appropriate to redecorate a little bit, so to speak, this member, so we made it clear that the court was extending the measure. You say it's insane. We think that if we systematicize how the court works, it's just not too much. Furthermore, the new Article 4 states that the court will also reject the proposal of the Attorney General if it considers that there is no basis to extend the emergency measure. The new attitude of 5 determines who is being delivered the solution. So the court's decision to extend or not to extend the emergency measure is not precise to whom it is delivered. That solution should have both the police station and the Social Work Centre, should be delivered to both the perpetrator and, of course, the victim has to have that solution, to know whether the emergency measure is extended or not extended. Above all, who gives the solution to extending or not extending the emergency measure to a potential perpetrator? Is that what we predicted here to be a police station and to confirm she returned the court's notice that he had received the solution. You know, it's very important that all competent institutions have that solution. We still have today in practice that many solutions from the court that are being taken in the process of saying protection measures against domestic violence do not arrive in a timely manner at the Centre for Social Work, and I suppose also at the police station. All of this has to exist and we have to be informed in time, so that we can have it on the record later on through Article 31.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6992	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? National MP Borisav Kovacevic submitted to the 18th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Borislav Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6993	Mr. Chairman, I'm just going to say that what I was going to say about the amendment has been answered by Ms. Kuburovic's statement on previous issues in the debate, so I have nothing further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6994	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Velimir Stanojevic and Dubravka Filipovski. Does anyone want a word? The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6995	Dear Minister, me and my colleague Stanojevic felt that, due to the accuracy of this law in Article 18 after Article 3., a new member should be added – the decision on the proposal is delivered to a competent police officer who has given the order to express an emergency measure, who, without delay, gives it to the person to whom an emergency measure has been given. If it refuses to accept the solution, the competent police officer shall draw up a note, which is deemed to have been served. Why have we submitted this amendment? We believe that the bill does not define who and how the first-degree court delivers a solution, that is, how the situation in which the perpetrator of violence does not appear to the court is overcome and is therefore not possible to give a solution. The spirit of this law is the coordination of all institutions, i.e. the synchronised functioning of the court and the competent police officer specialising in the conduct of domestic violence. The analogy with the way in which the order in Article 16 was handed over was used to deliver the court's solution. The bill as well as the fact that a perpetrator of violence certainly has an obligation to report to a competent police officer what can be used to hand over a court ruling. Your argument was that the amendment was not accepted for the same reason as the amendment to Article 9 and you believe that the situations governed by the law to this Article 18 are in practice, that they are undeniable, that they will not cause problems without reason excluding analogy as a way of interpreting the right. I believe that practice has shown that the accuracy of the law is very important and I believe that this member should be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6996	Thank you. The word has Minister Nela Kuburovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6997	Thank you. It is true, as you yourself have stated, there is an analogy to Article 16, but I just have to add that we have accepted the amendment to deliver the order to the victim, and therefore there is an analogy that also this solution is delivered to the victim, and your amendment does not contain such a provision, so that is another reason why the amendment cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6998	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 19th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Enis Imamovic, Natasa Micic, Dr Zarko Korac, Nenad Milic and Bajro Gegic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojičić, Maja Vidinović, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Jesic, Dejan Nikolic, Veroljub Stevanović, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic and Tomislav Žigmanov together submitted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment in the same text, MPs Neđo Jovanovic and with correction, Branka Stamenkovic, submitted. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u6999	I thank the chairman. I would only take the opportunity to express on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group gratitude for respecting the reasons and, of course, acceptance of this amendment. In view of the fact that it is a classic procedural legal situation, i.e. the legitimacy of one who is authorised to make an appeal to a higher court. In a specific case in the proposed text of the law, it should have been a senior prosecutor. Of course the senior prosecutor is not involved in the proceedings, and that is why this amendment has been submitted, and therefore thank you for accepting that only one procedural error be corrected. Only a primary prosecutor can do so and he has those powers and powers and not a senior prosecutor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7000	Thank you. The word is by MP Branka Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7001	Of the nine amendments that I have submitted, this is the only one that has been accepted obviously because a rough bill-writing slip has been made, as my colleague Jovanovic has just explained, I just don't know what you are thanking for accepting the amendments, I guess they should thank us for correcting their mistakes. There was a mistake because the law was written in a hurry, confused, adopted by an emergency procedure, full of indiscretions and mistakes, even I made a mistake, so I had to send a correction, because I wrote the amendment at speed. Who knows how many more mistakes there are here that, if we had worked at some normal pace, first in the bill itself, there would have been a lot less, and even if we had enough time to concentrate on that law, we would have done even more. So in that sense, I have to express my disappointment once again that this is all done in a hurry, which we are adopting a law that obviously has a lot of shortcomings and that will come very quickly to change and supplement. The amendment I submitted to Article 16 requiring the victim to be informed is another example of this speed I'm talking about, which is that it's forgotten about the victim. The fact is that the five, six of us, I don't know how many MPs have noticed it, is just another confirmation that we shouldn't be doing this in the future. Please, let us no longer act on emergency procedures, rather than work properly for the sake of the citizens of Serbia and for the application of these laws that are due to happen tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7002	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7003	The Honorable Chairman, this is a replica, because I've been mentioned. In fact, the SPS parliamentary group will never, nor now, when the draft law is on the agenda between obstruction and construction, choose no obstruction, but will act highly constructively to improve the quality of the law as effectively as possible. In this regard, we will always give thanks to the promoter for respecting the views of the SPS parliamentary group, given that, as part of the government, we are responsible and committed to access all that is done here, and also to parliamentary life, unlike those of others who choose neither one nor the other between obstruction and construction, but choose destruction, which is the worst. Otherwise, in everything that needs to be pointed out here, and for the sake of truth and for the sake of citizens, it is the fact that this law is not from yesterday or yesterday in public debate, nor in terms of professional observations when it comes to the proposal or draft of this law. It's been an extremely long time since someone deals with this law and is interested in the public. The public then needs to know the truth, and the truth is that we have devoted ourselves a lot, and we will always devote ourselves to not only this law, but all those laws that contribute to all the dangers, including the most risky ones that appear in this law. That's why we thank you again for adopting the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7004	Thank you. The word has Minister Nela Kuburovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7005	I thank the MP, Mr Jovanovic, for drawing attention to the fact that the law has been working for a long time without being confused, as some say, since the working group has been working hard since the beginning of the year and the draft law has been published in good time, so that everyone could participate and deliver their timely, and suggestions and opinions. It is true that the law goes according to the urgent procedure here in front of the MPs, but before the debate began, it was 15 days in the assembly procedure, so you had enough time for the same to prepare yourself and deliver the corresponding amendments, and I just have to point out that most of these amendments had just been done by the Autonomous Women's Centre, which had also delivered the same amendments to the Ministry of Justice, so you don't have to call for you to make mistakes and failures, because the amendments were identical and different parliamentary groups had just used these amendments and submitted them. It was not a mistake of the Justice Department to write in article 19 that it was a senior public prosecutor who filed the complaint, since we were in charge of the jurisdiction of the Public Prosecutor's Office Act, where it is explicitly prescribed jurisdiction where the prosecutor can act and before a senior court of law has a senior public prosecutor. In light of the reasons presented to us on the proposed amendments, we felt it was more rational to accept the proposed amendment and therefore, instead of the senior public prosecutor, the main public prosecutor is now the one who is competent to file a complaint, and this is exactly the rationalisation and reasoning that has been given us the reason why this was accepted, not the proposal's mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7006	The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7007	I picked up the line to Mr. Neđa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7008	He didn't mention you at any time, not even an MP's group. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7009	You allowed him a replica, and he told our MP group that we were dealing with obstruction and destruction.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7010	He didn't even mention you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7011	Same as Branki Stamenkovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7012	Is anyone else answering this amendment? (No) National MP Gorica Gajic submitted to the 19th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The National MP Zoran Zivkovic and the National MPs Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojic, Maja Vidinović, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komić, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Jesic, Dejan Nikolic, Veroljub Stevanović, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic and Tomislav Žigmanov submitted to the 20th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is from MP Vlado Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7013	Thank you, Chairman. I suggest that this amendment is not accepted, because it is imprecise, because there are insufficiently precise obligations relating to authorised persons, are referred to as health, educational and educational activity. It should be pointed out that a woman usually denies any violence against her, whether out of fear that it is not repeated, whether out of shame that society is not condemning her, so there is a cultural pattern – beat me by my husband, whether out of fear that her family will fall apart, whether out of fear for the safety of children, but the fact that 97% of women, regardless of age, education, at the height of the intellectual, will not admit, but will say one of those classic already seen sentences – I slipped down the stairs, fell in a bathtub and so on. As a result, doctors who come first in contact with the abused and injured woman, the woman over whom the violence was committed, should immediately report and call on the police to continue to prosecute the case. But not only are women victims of domestic violence. To a lesser extent, both children and men are represented. The doctor, most often it's a facial, neck and head injury, it's usually an ear, throat and nose specialist, neurosurgeons, Maxiofiavians, they have to be the first to provide, except health care, and support for that abused woman. He should be the first line of encouragement that the victim no longer shuts up, but reports acts of abuse. He should also encourage the police to, regardless of the severity of the injury, whether it is easier or harder, the police, the prosecution, judges and social workers must stand by doctors, because only one comprehensive approach to all those segments that must be an integral part of one team, success in reducing the number of abused women must be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7014	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Neđo Jovanovic and joint MPs Nenad Canak, Marinika Tepic, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic and joint MPs Branimir Jovanovic, Dr Predrag Jelenkovic and Milena Bicanin submitted to the 20th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7015	Thank you. Yes, on behalf of the LSV, I would like to express once again the satisfaction that the legislator, or the Ministry, has accepted this amendment. I'm only talking for further clarification to those who have not yet been able to understand that this law does not express the measure of detention, or detention. In fact, we have asked this amendment to erase the final position of Article 20, which says – the time spent in custody and any other deprivement of liberty is included in the duration of the emergency. We stated in the explanation that the solution was taken from the Family Law, but that such a provision is not applicable, because emergency measures that would be issued in these situations are not situations that provide for a provision of detention or detention. Therefore, this provision would not be applicable. But this would drive away any suspicion or speculation of those who would treat them through emergency measures to be held in custody for a bully, or potential bully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7016	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf of the students representatives of the "Young Vozdovac Initiative", who are currently following a part of today's session from the Great Hall gallery. Please welcome them. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7017	I thank you, Chairman. After comments from counterpart Tepic, there is no need to say anything else about the very reason for the amendment. But what seems important to me, it is important to point out that the large number of amendments that have been submitted, which you, the distinguished minister, have accepted, are identical with the amendments that have been effectively promoted by the Autonomous Women's Centre. It would be very rude and even incorrect to the Autonomous Women's Centre to keep quiet the fact that a large number of amendments are almost identified through the amendments that we have submitted. Why? It is good that we have recognised the same way as the Autonomous Women's Center and we as the MPs of the neural point of view that we have made consent and, of course, have contributed to improving the quality of this law. But given that women are in the focus of violence, given that they appear in most cases as victims and that the consequences they suffer are mostly tragic consequences, then it is correct to support the Autonomous Women's Center in an effort to choose with us, not only through amendments, but in every other way, for the quality of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7018	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milena Bijanin.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7019	Thank you, Chairman. Minister, we're really glad you had the understanding of accepting the amendment. Here, my colleagues have already explained it, and I just want to say from what point of view we're considering, joining my colleagues' argument. First of all, this is a new law. The emergency measure is the first measure to be expressed at the moment after the report of violence, risk assessment and all other procedures. She's the lowest possible measure. She needs to separate the two in conflict and lead to tranquility. If that measure will be extended, it's something else now. We don't know that at the time of the emergency. That doesn't know the victim, no matter who the victim is. That sacrifice needs to give time to think about what it can do, from the moment it was notified, to do with its stay in that space where the violence happened, whether it wants to wait for someone and what it wants to take as its own self-evaluation of risk, to which it, of course, has a right. That's why I think this measure is very good. Of course practice will give us enough serious results, or it will lead us to think about whether it should be more, whether it should be shorter, but for starters I think this is very good and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7020	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Gorica Gajic submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 21st Amendment were submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. The word is by MP Branka Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7021	Thank you. Article 21 of this proposal states that the person who has knowledge of the crime committed is obliged to report it. Dot. I see great indiscretion in this, as I said earlier, because it's not clear which face. My amendment required that it be clearly defined that they are under obligation and obliged to report violence precisely employed by those state authorities and bodies that exercise public authority where the greatest chance is to face the consequences of violence and to face them, which are health, educational and educational institutions. This amendment has been rejected, for my unknown reason. It is said in the explanation that this is for the same reason that my amendment to Article 12 was rejected, in which I was also looking for the same thing, which is to make a clear commitment to employees of state authorities, especially those who will first come into contact with the consequences of violence, means, health institutions, kindergartens, schools, to prescribe a rule that will make it clear that they are obliged to report this violence. As it stands in this bill, if it's not about speed, which the minister claims it isn't, I don't know why it is then, I guess it's about leaving someone free to charge themselves for not reporting, and someone else to release what he didn't report and to creatively interpret and apply this attitude. What does that mean, face? What face? We need to define it much clearer. I'm very unhappy that this was not accepted as an addition to the law and the correction of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7022	The word has Minister Nela Kuburovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7023	Thank you. In order to talk about Article 21, we should also see the title above that article, which is specific provisions on criminal proceedings. At the very beginning of the bill, we are talking about the application of certain provisions of this law in certain procedures against crimes against gender freedom or domestic violence, and these are the provisions that apply to this, and not only to the reporting of violence. Since every person has an obligation to report a criminal offence to which the law calls, I believe that this, above all, is excess, and on the other hand, not all the authorities you listed in your amendment play a role in preventing domestic violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7024	The word has been made by MP Branka Stamenkovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7025	No, it's a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7026	You have no right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7027	Don't count me this time. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7028	You have no right to a replica. If you want to discuss the amendment, I don't mind. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Belačić, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7029	The government of the Republic of Serbia, by proposing this law, essentially wanted some major media attention, and I think it has received that attention, and is trying to present that this law will solve all possible problems in the context of preventing domestic violence. You know very well that's not the case. A lot of what is provided for in this law is absolutely excessive. We have services, we have competent authorities, employees and the Criminal Code, etc. We have, so far, had the conditions to deal more seriously with this problem, i.e. by preventing domestic violence and, I stress, violence at all, because it is not the only violence in the family that today is the everyday life in our society and in our country, unfortunately, but it is. So they don't need any specialists, no special forces, no groups, etc. All it takes is for those who are already employed to take the law into their hands, to do their work essentially, not just to walk around in the workplace. One of the members who, according to the SRS, should be deleted from this law is a member of the 23rd that speaks and predicts persons designated for a relationship. These are now some individuals who are supposed to be the link between the police administration, the public prosecutor, the president of the court, the head of the social work center. So, on the one hand absolutely unnecessary, excessively, nothing will bring about either in better application of this law or in reducing domestic violence, and on the other hand, especially when it comes to courts and judges, this is absolutely unacceptable, and this is, you have to agree, an unconstitutional provision because there must be no connection, no persons who should be the connection between judges, courts, because this would raise questions about the independence and independence of judges. What does it mean that day-to-day judges, or those persons, will be assigned to communicate with judges, prosecutors, etc.? It's not gonna happen. There is none of this because, unfortunately, the reality in Serbia today is that, let's say, a large number of police officers are involved with small drug dealers, that almost every police station knows exactly who these young people are, especially young drug addicts, but nothing is done and only when a tragedy occurs, then we find out how long someone knew it, who was covering it up, etc. So there's no need to pre-normalize this law. If you've already brought it in, although we said at first that it was enough Criminal Code, but we don't mind you bringing this one, but provision 23. The bill of this law should not exist in law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7030	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 23rd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Nogo, Bosko Obradović, Dr Dragan Vesović, Marija Janjusevic, Mr Ivan Kostic and Zoran Radojić. Does anyone want a word? The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7031	Thank you, Chairman. In the light of why three positions should be deleted in this article of the law, we have stated that the above positions only burden the law with unnecessary organisational issues. Who will be in charge of the interstate relationship, who is not a legal person, but an internal organisational issue of the ministry and its mutual coordination of work. These forms of co-operation can be far more dissociative than proposed in this law. These questions, in the nature of things, can be regulated by sublegal regulations. So, here we have asked a principled question – does this law actually acknowledge that our ministries have no coordination and communication between themselves and within themselves, did this law actually have to come as one major evidence of a breakdown of state administration that does not do its job? Do you, gentlemen of the Progressives, hereby acknowledge that the entire state administration is bad, that there is no coordination between it, that there is no coordination within the ministries, that you have to pass a special law that will force people to co-operate, to coordinate, to have a joint appearance on certain issues? I don't believe our government is that bad and so uncoordinated. I think this kind of thing could have been solved, as it is said in the explanation of certain sublaws. Why would the law regulate the operation within the ministry or between the ministries, define the way their relationships, contacts, co-operation and everything else? So, I didn't understand, Madam Minister, have our ministries done a bad job so far, have they had total catastrophic coordination, so you have the laws to solve it, or, if that's not the case, why haven't you solved it with sublegal solutions, why haven't you dealt with it properly with certain regulations and other acts in a better way? In these five years, as far as you are in power, you may be a new minister, but the party from which you come has long been in power in Serbia and cannot bear responsibility for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7032	The word has a National MP, Marija Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7033	Thank you, Chairman. I haven't heard from you before. I thought the opposition MPs would stop this ridiculous spin and explain the amendments, because if they have already called several times for very important institutions within the framework of not the government's sector, organisations, forgive me, who have also written significant amendments that have been partially adopted for this law, I expected them to consult on these spin amendments as well. What we heard in today's day is that certain things should not be in this law, because other laws determine that, about the functioning of local self-government, would be similar, in fact to what I should say – why the law on preventing domestic violence, don't two people from kissing come into something and there's no reason for us to regulate violence between them. This is totally unnecessary law. That kind of thinking really doesn't benefit any victims. I've asked for everything they say before, to think about saying it in the eyes of a victim of violence. Would this kind of thing say? There have been many words about co-ordination within our ministry in the previous period, that in fact this situation of domestic violence in our country has been somewhat due, among other things, to what has not been sufficiently co-operated by competent institutions. There wasn't enough co-operation between the prosecution, the police, the welfare center. It's an alpha and omega, so that beginning in the story of violence. Everyone knows it's absolutely like that. There's no reason to question the coordination group here. So that's something that's necessary. We've seen that breach, and it has to be corrected by this law. In order not to say something uglier, rougher word, I say it's necessary and that the ugliest kind of spin is what we've been hearing about today. It's similar with the story that I'm not going back to those amendments, whether this law is going to fix the domestic violence situation or not. I'm really saying this as someone who really wants to deal with this story, not as an SNS MP, I'm talking like any female rights activist and someone who fights domestic violence. This law can fix a lot. Not everything, but there is much we can do, but we need to, and later in implementation, all of us as a control role in parliament, and, of course, in the first place of the institutions that should apply in their work this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7034	You have no right to a replica, Mr. Radovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go. (Branka Stamenković, from the post: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7035	Thank you. Infringement of Article 107(2) - Insulting. Please, the opposition MPs here are trying to correct their constructive proposals one in writing and insufficiently state-of-the-art law. It doesn't make sense that because of this constructive performance on our part, we call ourselves ridiculous and accuse ourselves of spinning. So, I would ask fellow MPs from the ruling majority to get used to it a little bit and that the opposition will always be more critical and that it is natural, but please appreciate it, that we do not insult anyone and that we never perform as the head of your parliamentary group does – by insulting.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7036	I understand. (Branka Stamenkovic, from the scene: I did not finish. I understand there's no need anymore. Branka Stamenkovic, from the scene: I have two minutes. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I don't understand what else you have. (Bosko Obradovic, from the post: There are two minutes to hurt the Rules of Procedure. Up to two minutes. Don't abuse the right to advertise damage to the Rules of Procedure. (Branka Stamenkovic, from the scene: Turn on my microphone. No, I won't turn on your microphone and I won't give you my word. Allow me to respond to article 107's injury. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. So, like the amendments are funny or it's spinning, it's also incompetent to the government and I don't see where that criterion is broken. (Branka Stamenkovic, from the scene: Who said she was incompetent? ) A colleague who submitted the amendment. (Branka Stamenkovic, from the place: No. It is. And now don't make me right and make me not do my job. I'm doing my job. A colleague, Radulovic, is waving at his business. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7037	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. You violated the right of a Member to, to hurt the Rules of Procedure. It's about Article 103. You can't stop her in the middle of her speech and say, "I understand." She has two minutes to say that. What you just said, if someone said, or offended, you tell the government, then you have to react according to Article 103. However, it is not appropriate to answer that someone is spinning and funny, for we are humiliating the discussion of the congregation. We stick to the subject and your job is to take care of it, not to interrupt me after 39-40 seconds... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7038	And when you say someone's funny, Mr. Radulovic, then you say it's an insult. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: And you end up taking the word. This is violence in the Assembly. I don't think there's violence here, except according to the chairman, violence against their intelligence. The word is made by MP Dragan Vesovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7039	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 27. - The president of the National Assembly takes care of the application of this Rules of Procedure. Indeed, I know that you have the opportunity to interrupt anyone who exposes you, but I don't believe that anyone in this House of 250 of us can be able to judge who's as intelligent as he is. So it might take us a little longer to figure out a colleague. Why are you interrupting her, I may not be intelligent enough...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7040	Here, that's your problem. I don't want to go into it, but it's important that I understand what is the violation of the Rules of Procedure, not you, because I'm breaking the Rules of Procedure and not you. Is she all right? The word is made by MP Branka Stamenkovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7041	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Article 109. - a reminder is given to the People's Messenger, if other proceedings violate the order of the sitting or act contrary to the provisions of this Rules of Procedure. I ask you, by way of this article, to give yourself a warning, since you are the most infringing order here at this session. You don't allow constructive discussion, you take away the word. Please, I have two minutes. Don't accidentally turn off my microphone. If I want to, I can talk about a member and hurt a member of 299 who doesn't exist, but it should exist, in which it should say that the presidents have little to answer for their actions, not who the Pope is to have the sinlessness and the full right to seduce the law of the stronger, to which they're used. This is the violence that this parliamentary group and other opposition groups have suffered since 3 June this year and we do not want to allow this law to prevail more. Because the citizens here chose us to represent their interests, if most citizens voted for you, not all citizens voted for you. Some citizens voted for us and we represent them. Respect that, this is not the SNS Assembly, this is the National Assembly, and the people have chosen different representatives in the Assembly and please learn to respect the right of others to say otherwise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7042	My colleague Stamenkovic, here I am going to give you immediately after the next election an opportunity to give me a warning. You'll just have to win that election first. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: We will. That's the first thing. The other thing... . My colleagues, I've kept my mouth shut. You've forgotten each other, a small matter, that I know very well what it's like to be the MP of the opposition, what it's like to be a MP when there's only twenty of you in the parliamentary group. I know very well what it's like when the police come in to deal physically with you in the O.R. and I never apply it. Unlike your society where you are. (Saša Radulovic, from the post: The Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) (Bosko Obradović, from the city: Rules of Procedure. No more injuries... You want a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7043	Chairman, you've violated Article 100. Rules of Procedure. You, if you want to express your opinion and comment, should go down to the bench, along with the other MPs, to answer your word neatly and to state your opinion. We don't need lessons...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7044	You need a lesson, because you still haven't learned that when you go to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you speak to me and I am obliged to answer you. You obviously didn't learn that. Because it says in that article on the basis of which you get your word, that I am obliged to explain to you why I did something. If you are not satisfied, you may ask that the National Assembly declare in the voting day whether I have broken the Rules of Procedure or not. (Saša Radulovic, from the post: The Injury of the Rules of Procedure. You want a new breach of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7045	So you interrupted me again. This is Article 103. It's not a question of you explaining your actions, but of getting into replicas, of explaining to the opposition what to do, of winning the election, it has nothing to do with hurting the Rules of Procedure. Also... . [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7046	Mr. Radulovic, if your MP tells me to give myself a warning, do you expect me to behave differently? (Saša Radulovic, from the place: You took my word again. You took my word for the injury of the Rules of Procedure. () Would you like the People's Assembly's Rules of Procedure to be declared on Voting Day? (Saša Radulovic, from the place: You took my word. I'm looking for a word for the injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7047	So it's Article 103 again. I understand that it may be clear to you, I understand that it may be clear to you. However, in Voting Day, all MPs vote on the violation of the Rules of Procedure, so everyone needs to hear for two minutes how much each MP has a right to the Rules of Procedure. Problems in the Assembly arise only when you do not respect the Rules of Procedure, when you allow insult, when you abuse your position from that chair. Instead of coming down to the congregation benches as part of article 100 and giving your opinion from there, you do so as the chairman. The only thing you're entitled to is when you're exposed to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, to say why you think he's hurt or hasn't been injured by the Rules of Procedure. In the end, the MPs will vote on it. Otherwise, by taking away the words, which you have done to me here twice before, Members of Stamenkovic also, it is verbal violence in the Assembly, where you hold the word and do not let anyone else speak. So all MPs have the right to breach the Rules of Procedure. The chaos in the Assembly comes when you don't do your job, when you don't stick to the rules, when you have different arches for everyone. To remind you once again, by Article 100, if you want to speak, comment on the opposition, you must go down to the assembly benches in the replica...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7048	Where's Article 103?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7049	... in the replica, as I said in article 100, you address other MPs, not to abuse the position you hold as chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7050	I think fellow MPs should have agreed to the seminar, but that's their problem. I can't help them. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask the People's Assembly to declare in the voting day whether the words "funky" and "spinning" are offensive to one of you. Thank you very much. Let's move on to the amendment. (Bosko Obradović, from the city: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. No more injuries to the Rules of Procedure, we're done hurting the Messengers. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. (Bosko Obradovic, from the post: Mr Arsic, so I have not answered once. I can't hurt the Rules of Procedure so many times. (Bosko Obradovic, from the place: Why can't I and others can? )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7051	The Honorable Chairman, regarding the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7052	Excuse me, Komlensky. So, according to you, Mr. Bradovich, because some of the others have been answering, you have to, too? Well, it's not like that. Go on. (Bosko Obradovic throws. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7053	Chairman, I'm asking you to give me back my time since it was impossible. (Bosko Obradovic, from the place: What time. What's this about? Let's all play crazy. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7054	We'll figure it out differently. Ask for a word again.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7055	Thank you. Regarding the amendment to Article 23 proposed by the Srdjan Nogo Group, Bosko Obradovic, Dr Dragan Veselinović, Marija Janjusevic, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojicic, I believe that this amendment should not be accepted, for one simple reason, because this amendment would call into question the implementation of the entire law. I can only ask myself the following question, loudly - is such an amendment written to create space and to speak uglyly in the former work of certain parts of this country when it comes to protecting against domestic violence or does someone really want to create a position that this law is not applicable in practice? Article 23 has just been defined in a way that is necessary, necessary and sufficiently and clearly says that persons who have completed specialized training must be appointed, persons who will be authorised to have a relationship, with clear and precise definitions of their rights and obligations. If such an amendment were to be accepted and left in sublegal acts, which cannot be regulated in any way to fulfil these obligations and have a purpose, that is why this amendment should be rejected in the manner that the Government has proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7056	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Elvira Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7057	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Presidency, Madam Minister, Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, dear colleagues, I would like to appeal to all of us to return to the agenda and the framework of the amendment I would like to talk about the coordination of various state bodies. I will use the time of the mandated representative of the SVM parliamentary group, the Party for Democratic Action. I also talked about the principle of the law that unfortunately domestic violence is happening, that it is not something new and that you have just recognised the weak points of the current system and the legislative framework and that this bill is a proposal for how they should be solved. One of the main problems is the lack of coordination between state authorities and institutions. The most we talked about was the Center for Social Affairs, the D.A.'s Office, the judiciary and, of course, the police. The question has now been raised here in this debate – do we admit that it does not work, and I would like us to actually return to the basic goal. The primary goal is to protect the victim and enable access to justice for victims, i.e. to take a few steps backwards, the primary goal of all of us is to strengthen women because unfortunately, a huge number of them face this problem every day, that they be strengthened, that they start to seek the help of institutions because they still lack confidence in these institutions. A concrete answer to the question of colleagues, I would not call anyone if I didn't just open up to replicas, is – there are good models. One of the good models is so-called. Grain model. I'm a folk emissary coming from Zrenjanin. Zrenjanin is known to be the very institutions that need to help the victims cooperate well. All thanks to the good initiative of individuals today it is perfectly normal that in Zrenjanin, it seems to me, on Monday or once a week, representatives of all these institutions sit down and look at the cases they had in the previous week, two, discuss and follow each case exactly, and that is the essence of this law from the first application to the very end of the outcome. Unfortunately, again in the area of Zrenjanin, what happened. This isn't enough either. I would just remind all of you that indeed there are already general and special protocols on the treatment and co-operation of the institutions of the system of assistance and support of women who suffer domestic violence and partnership, and there are also good examples, but unfortunately in many municipalities, cities are not so. We all, of course, don't know how it's going to work in practice, but we think this is a good proposal. These institutions must be connected and co-operated, but in the first place it should be the assistance of victims and the protection of victims. The main thing is avoiding the so-called. multiple victimizations, because it's really hard to get women to talk about it. It is extremely difficult for them to address both friends and family, let alone institutions. They may be NGOs that strengthen them even more, and we all need to cooperate with them. Imagine how difficult it is when that woman is barely strong, convinces her painful truth and what happens first to the police or the Social Labour Centre, and if they are not connected she has to survive this whole process of painful so-called. the victimisation process. That's why we think this proposal is good. One of the previous speakers spoke of unnecessary training, that it is not important to be certain points or specialised persons within certain institutions. I believe that training is extremely important, and now I speak not only as a national MP, but as someone who is working intensively with SOS Vojvodina, who has passed several trainings and I see how important they are to the representatives of institutions, because, no matter what this problem exists, mentality is what it is. Unfortunately, only a few years ago, and possibly now, in certain municipalities, victims face representatives of institutions that are not helping them, because they are simply not sensitive to this problem and it is extremely important that after the day of voting for the adoption of this law, this proposal is actually moving towards the creation of sublegal acts and necessary specialised training, that indeed all those involved in this process are fully sensitised to this problem and that victims do not face such problems. What I would also like to point out very briefly is to keep an eye on it, this is an extremely difficult topic and a very large number of women are facing this at home and it is extremely painful for them. Therefore, I would ask that we all drop the ball and that at least here, in the high home of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we do not share prejudice, because one of the greatest prejudices is that this is only happening to lower social layers. Unfortunately, domestic violence is happening to everyone, both to highly educated women and to well-standing families, only to hide better and to speak less of it. The next prejudice is that bullys may use psychoactive substances, that they are under the fact of alcohol, etc., that's also prejudice. Unfortunately, violence happens both without alcohol and without psychoactive substances, it's a planial action. The bottom line is that this way, in fact, a bully wants to show his power, to control his wife and family. I would really appeal to all my colleagues if at least we weren't spreading the wrong prejudices here, right now, during this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7058	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7059	We Serbian radicals have a different attitude towards parliamentary democracy. We don't mind MPs from other parliamentary groups saying everything they think they should say, because we are also in favour of absolute freedom of speech in this House. We don't mind anyone saying we spin the amendments, we don't mind someone saying our amendments are funny. That's why we didn't answer, and we don't report in these business situations, but I answered the line, you completely ignored me. The replica is a way of communication in the National Assembly, a replica between MPs, a replica between MPs and government representatives. Such things should be allowed in order to simply respond to unargued criticism. It was obvious to whom all the amendments were addressed by that previous, previous, actually, discussion. It took anyone who wanted to oppose the arguments of an unargumented region, that's what you should have allowed. If someone says that we are most honest about this problem, that is, the problems of domestic violence, then you must allow others to say that we too are completely honest when we make remarks and when we want to fix the law in some way. If someone said that without any argument, that simply, roughly, no amendments should be submitted, it was not explicitly said, but it was obvious that it was an intensity, as if we had no right to submit the amendment. Members of the SRS of the amendments write and explain extremely professionally. These amendments, here, on the second day, speak exclusively of graduate lawyers, arguments that can be liked or not, arguments that one can adopt or not. It was heard here that the opposition to this law was collecting political points. Well, we're all politicians, we all do politics. I guess everything we say is directed to the citizens of Serbia. Is that not what those who are currently the majority in the National Assembly do? But no argument has been heard for any of the amendments which is why it should not be accepted. Because he's sping, because he's funny, I'm sorry, it's not an argument. I'm sorry, I'm sure every lawyer in this room understands our amendments perfectly. He also understands every lawyer from the ruling coalition. She also understands Mrs. Kuburovic. It does not accept because they have different political views, which is also acceptable to us. But, you know, if anyone says -- while we're wasting time here discussing amendments, there's someone out there suffering domestic violence, let me, it sounds like reading news on local television. (Bosko Obradović, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7060	Now you have a replica? She didn't get a replica, she got a word. (Bosko Obradović, from the site: The Injury of the Rules of Procedure, can it do that? Injury of the Rules of Procedure? Come on, hurt the Rules of Procedure. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7061	Thank you, Chairman. I was patient and waited two minutes to point to Rule 107's breach. The speaker at the National Assembly session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. I suppose that, Mr. Chairman, applies to you, as the chairman of the National Assembly. You see the root causes of all our incidents, as you call them, that are constantly happening in the National Assembly? These are the two arches, one archaic to the people's messengers of power, the other archaic to the people's MPs of the opposition. Imagine how the opposition MP feels when you turn off the microphone in the middle of the speech? Based on what right, did you warn him not to say something right, to break something, to point to a particular store that doesn't work properly? But to literally rule it out before the time is up to him to speak, let's say, of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, it really ruins the dignity of the National Assembly. You must respect the MPs of the opposition as well as the MPs of the government. I can understand and tolerate that you are a little more prone to the MPs of power, because you belong to the authorities, but that you fully deny the possibility of the opposition having such reasonable, reasonable and normal discussion, as I am now doing, I cannot understand it. I can't understand that even in the ranks of the opposition you have double arches, because it's much easier to give a replica or word to the MPs of the SRS, which I don't know if it has anything to do with any of your agreements with them, or any other MP of the opposition. Come on, tell us what is the connection between your love or I don't know what other relationship to the SRS, that we too can see if we can fit into that Rules of Procedure of yours on the work of the National Assembly, so we can get a replica or a breach of the Rules of Procedure easier. I don't argue that the SRS is an opposition, but it seems to me that it's a little bit, as you would say, more equal or more expensive to the opposition than any other opposition in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7062	Mr. Obradovic, you made me laugh a little while you advertised article 107. Rules of Procedure, but I'm going to have to answer you. When I turn off the MP's microphone, it's only for one reason, and you now appreciate yourself whether I should do it or need to do this other reason, which would then go into service, which is by Article 103. – if it comes out of the framework of advertising of the Rules of Procedure, I am obliged to give notice to the MP and to subtract two minutes from the time of the parliamentary group. Do you want me to let the People's MP, who obviously wants to provoke other MPs and enter into debate in the Rules of Procedure, not the law, because we need to debate the law? So it's your choice that if you think it's better if I give a warning and take time away from the parliamentary group or if I just turn off the microphone, so it doesn't turn out that there's a dictatorship in Serbia, choose for myself, it's absolutely no matter to me, if you want to. But be assured if we go into such a rigorous application of the Rules of Procedure, it will be quite, quite unpleasant for you. The word is made by MP Miroslav Aleksic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7063	Thank you, Chairman. I'm advertising a breach of Article 103. Rules of Procedure of Rule 3 because you did not give the Rules of Procedure a word to the MPs who asked for the word and Article 108, concerning the custody of the order at the session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So, Mr. Arsic, you are from a peaceful, constructive debate that ran during today's day here to allow one of the SNS MPs in question to provoke the opposition by saying that these amendments proposed by the opposition MPs are written or ridiculous. So, it's inadmissible and that way...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7064	Please, Mr. Alexiche, do you want to continue like that? Yes, go ahead. Just ask for a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7065	The MP thus insulted not only the opposition MPs, but also the MPs of the government and the legislator, because the number of amendments of the opposition is significant...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7066	Mr. Alexic, in accordance with article 109, I give you a warning. Milorad Aleksic, from the scene: On what grounds? I am taking two minutes away from the time of your parliamentary group, and that is because you wanted to continue obstructing the work of Parliament, because we have ended up on this story and on the discussion of colleague Maria Obradovic. If you'd given me a violation of the Rules of Procedure when I asked... That's when it was over. Well, for one discussion, you want ten injuries. (Milorad Aleksic, from the post: Article 108. Please give me your word. ( ) Article 108? Do you want to move on? Please ask for a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7067	So, I ask you, indeed, to continue to take care and not to use the double arches when the MPs of the opposition or the MPs of the government speak, so that they do not come to the situation we came to Friday. The same letter also caused chaos Friday, which arose and a riot in the Assembly on Friday. The same thing is happening today. From a quiet tone, normal work, you've allowed it, and you haven't interrupted it to create the situation it's currently made here in the Assembly. I ask you to take care of your work in the future and do not violate the members of the Rules of Procedure, neither 103 nor 108. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7068	I've already explained. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Yes) By the Rules of Procedure and you, Mr. Milojic? Anybody else want to go by the Rules of Procedure? First Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7069	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There have been a lot of behavior here that really required that we remind ourselves of the contents of the Rules of Procedure, and I understand all the difficulties.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7070	Please specify a member only.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7071	I wanted this opportunity to call on Article 112 to pay close attention to him. You see this as a kind of proposal, because obviously the atmosphere has come to a point that someone obviously just wants to usurp the session, abuse the right to harm the Rules of Procedure, advertise the same thing, and talk over and over again about something that only interests him, which has nothing to do with the agenda, or what happens at the session, or has reason for any reaction of this kind. Some people only appear because they can't resist joining the debate when it happens. There you go. Just like that. And when someone talks to someone else, they feel a terrible need to raise the Rules of Procedure, so they can say something. I noticed, Mr. Chairman, that at one point you laughed, rightly. This kind of behavior reminded me of a scene from a popular programme, I think that in the late 1980s, it was a show called "Top List of Superrealists", and there was a famous replica that reads, "I'm afraid I haven't asked you anything." I don't know why it occurred to me when I noticed that some people were answering. Maybe it wouldn't be bad if we rest for a few seconds, so to work, I'm not asking us to vote, I'm asking us to work. There are us who are working, we are not all here Obradovic, there are people's MPs here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7072	Mr. Orlic, the circumstances provided for in Article 112. The Rules of Procedure came on Friday and apparently other MPs did not help, and then we will use the circumstances provided for in Article 109. Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is made by the MP Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7073	Thank you, Chairman. I'm advertising Article 108. – on the agenda of the session, the chair, i.e. You. I ask you to return the session to normal because you dropped the strings and if you treat all MPs equally, so Mr Martinovic should have told the DS to end up in prison. Then we have a Friday situation where you give MP Balsa Bozovic a break notice. Come on, please, be equal to everyone, if that's possible. If not possible, we really don't know how to convince you in a cultural, moderate, nice and civilized way. We shall not be the clay pigeons of which the messengers of the SNS will speak all kinds of falsehoods, and all manner of folly, and keep their mouth shut. Indeed, please bring order to the session and don't let most harass DS MPs in particular, because we certainly won't be silently answering that, and we don't know what other way to be cultural, nice, civilized to take into our own protection and our own defense. You have the opposition, you were an opposition and you know that surely the opposition, which is called DS, will not be silent, especially on charges such as those coming from the SNS, by Mr Martinovic and Mrs Obradovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7074	My colleague Milojičić, I am just trying to hold a session of the Assembly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and that what is foreseen by the Rules of Procedure is working in this Chamber, which is that we are having a discussion about the law and the amendments, and here someone wants, thanks to the Institute of Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, to make a mess, chaos, I did not say that you wanted the session to be interrupted and to have an obstruction of Parliament's work. We tried tolerance. As much as we were more tolerated, the situation was getting worse and some MPs simply felt that they needed to conduct a discussion on the Rules of Procedure rather than the law. The Rules of Procedure have been adopted, I think, in 2010, and this discussion is over. Here's a colleague of mine who's got nothing to do with it. He's re-adverting the Rules of Procedure. Here, I'll give him my word now.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7075	Thank you. Article 107. So you can't know what anyone's thinking and why they're calling for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Also, let's say we can tell you that the reason you're running a session like this is because you want to make a mess. This is not the way of discussion in the National Assembly. You have no idea what we want or don't want. We call for a breach of the Rules of Procedure when we feel that the Rules of Procedure have been broken, we explain that and it is up to you to give an answer, not to comment, but to give an answer to what we are looking for and then conduct a debate in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. These comments about who has the intention really do not suit the president, the chairman of the National Assembly. We have no intention of chaos, we want order in this assembly, we want to respect the Rules of Procedure. Please don't talk about MPs like that anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7076	Mr. Radulovich, I really didn't understand you now. If that's what you really want, I'll give you a confession. Here, for starters, I trust you, and we'll see how it turns out in the end. The word has a National MP, Marija Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7077	Thank you. That's right, I haven't spoken in a while. Someone just threw it on the side. I don't want to look back on this. I think it's clear to the viewers who are conducting torture over who. I want to ask one maybe rhetorical question, so it doesn't require an answer. Is there violence on me here? I'm very interested in this subject. From 10 to 13 hours ago, I didn't answer because I assumed everyone would jump, just like they just jumped in the last 45 minutes. I feel like I can't put any of my views on amendments to this bill, because whatever I'm saying, in those two minutes, it causes salva reactions and insults to my account, from all opposition parties. Perhaps it would be best for someone to explain why he doesn't want to talk about the law, but wants to insult, exclusively SNS MPs? Look at how many times, through different visions, through the violations of the Rules of Procedure, through some other reactions, only the work of Parliament is being carried out. For me, every mining of work in Parliament is where we don't deal with a law that's on the agenda. Something that can be a little detachment, because there is a need to solve some work irregularities, we can deal with it, but to this extent that we can't at all, I haven't heard a single MP of the opposition asking us to return to the law. And I know that's what some people here think, but they just sit there and keep quiet, like I kept quiet for the first three hours. Let them say, let them make a press conference and say, MPs of the ruling majority have an obligation to remain silent and suffer what we say. When we say the law is wrong, it's done in a hurry, but they don't care about one fact that it's been a serious piece of work on this law, that serious people have been in the task force that prepared this. When I say serious people, I mean institutions and experts of organizations that have been dealing with this problem for decades. That's why I said it was funny and it was spin. It's funny if you know it's practice and experts say it's wrong, and you still insist on it. And spin is something, when you don't like the answer, and you persistently reason in the other direction, because you don't like what you have to say, which is true, which is fact. That's why I was talking about funny and spins. There's no problem in general that we're here all day talking about breaking the Rules of Procedure, but I'm calling again to get back to the laws. Feel free to insult me. Feel free to make the violence. I hope I can't say anything, because as soon as I say it, they're on their way. Do I have the right to say something without reacting behind it?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7078	My colleague Obradović, I ask you to return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7079	I have no right obviously, and we have to keep our mouths shut when you react that way. You carry out the violence. Here, get up and say that's not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7080	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Branka Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7081	Thank you, Chairman, in order to be able to indicate the exact member who was injured, I would have to know on what basis Col. Obradovic was speaking in the first place. If it was a replica, a replica, it was two amendments ago, if it was an amendment, if it came to the amendment and told all of this, then we have a clean tear as a member's injury to the 106th off topic, we haven't heard the words of one about the amendment. So, uh... (Maria Obradovic, from the place: Well, so I can't say anything? I can never say anything. Well, you're talking by amendment. You talked for three minutes that you wanted a replica. You should have called right after you were mentioned. If you wanted to do business, you couldn't do three minutes, but two. If you wanted to follow the amendment, you should have talked by amendment. So again, the reason why the DJB parliamentary group has repeatedly insisted on respecting the Rules of Procedure is not that we would have gone from discussing essential topics, but you can't talk quality about essential topics in which you don't have clear rules within which you can do it without having it so far. If we stick to the Rules of Procedure, the discussion will be much better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7082	Col. Pavlovic, do you, according to the Rules of Procedure or by amendment? The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7083	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, make it an amendment. If this means we're out of the circle of persistent advertising of the Rules of Procedure, I welcome you on my part. So, if anyone in this room still remembers what it was about, the amendment was proposed to delete some three positions, however, the same amendment left the 4th position in the proposed member of the law. It's an excellent opportunity to see the difference between the work of those who keep talking and those who care about the content of the law and those who care about the law being good and those who are not hard to read, and some who find it difficult to read not the law, but one Rulesman here for half a year. But as wisdom puts it, laziness is worse than disease and should be kept in mind. It's not good for many reasons. One cannot suggest erasing three positions without leaving the fourth position in which the concepts he wants to delete are still kept. That's not how laws are made. That's not how you make a system. It has nothing to do with the state or anything arranged, but no wonder, ladies and gentlemen, because it comes from those who do not have a policy. And, which was supported by all those who reported to them with audiblely to advertise the Rules of Procedure in order to take some direct pictures. If you ask which one, I think that's more than clear. All those who now have big eyes are waiting for a chance at a replica, but you won't be watching that movie. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7084	The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenada Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7085	I thank the chairman. The honourable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment we have proposed refers to a member of the 23rd person designated for the relationship and there is a provision for the appointment of certain persons in the police administration, the general public prosecutor's office, the primary and senior court and the social work centre. However, given that there is also a specialised training for those persons and that law enforcement starts only on 1 June of the following year, i.e. for a little more than seven months from today, our amendment refers to the identification of persons to be designated by the managers of these competent institutions and who will carry out these tasks even before the specialised training is completed. So, in Article 23 after Article 2, we have proposed an amendment that says – Exceptionally from the position of the 2nd member until the completion of the specialized training of the person, the person designated for the relationship is named from the order of the competent police officers, deputy public prosecutors and judges. So the proposal for this amendment is related to amendments 7, 8 and 9. It would practically enable the law to be applied in some way and before it comes into effect, given that, based on statistics, we have in Serbia a single victim of family violence at the weekly level and it would be very important to start already with some of the proposed measures that you have proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7086	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The peoples of Srdjan Nogo, Bosko Obradović, Dr Dragan Vesović, Marija Janjušević, Mr Ivan Kostic and Zoran Radojčić submitted together to Article 24 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Bosko Obradović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7087	So this is another example of what SNS hasn't done in five years of its power. When I say this, I hope it's not forbidden in the National Assembly to mention the SNS and be critical of what they've been doing for the past five years. If that is potentially prohibited, please inform us that this is a new provision of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. Why am I saying this? I think that my dear last name woman, Mrs Obradovic, herself admitted something that I said in the previous reporting clearly, that there was no need to write these legal notes on the coordination or formation of coordination and co-operation groups, that the SNS had yet five years ago seen the need for coordination and sublegal acts given to existing police officers, centres for social work, courts, prosecutors, the order to coordinate activities among themselves. So from this point on, we're clearly setting up the next dilemma. Or you've been off topic for five years, and you haven't figured out what to do about preventing domestic violence, so after five years, you woke up and realized that you had to deal with it by law, which clearly speaks of your irresponsibility and inability to exercise power. Or you could actually solve all of this with now sublegal acts that would give orders to form coordination groups. Who forbids the ministries from being in coordination? Who defends courts, social work centres, prosecutors and police to co-ordinate, to build a coordination group, to co-operate with each other? Who defended them by the existing laws for five years? Who, then, is responsible for the fact that certain domestic violence has not been prevented in the last five years? Well, SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7088	Thank you, colleague Obradovic. Nice of you to remind me, five years ago I was an MP for the opposition and was waiting for the budget to finally enter the procedure. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7089	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm glad we're back on the subject of amendments. I have the opportunity to say in relation to the previous amendment, since it has been pointed out that this is a collapse of the state administration and that we are unable to solve the problem. This law has just been proposed because we are aware that there are certain problems in coordinating the competent authorities to act when it comes to domestic violence. This is exactly the first government to come up with a system solution. What is important, we are very aware that this law will not completely eradicate domestic violence, but we hope that it will give at least positive effects and lead to a reduction of violence. What's important, and what's been potential for several times, is that we've not coordinated enough, and if we wanted to, we could have solved it by sublaw. I have to say that neither the courts nor the prosecution are part of the state administration system, so we can't sublawly order anything, not even a public prosecutor, but only a court. This is precisely the basis for giving the obligation to both courts and public prosecutors to act as provided for here, and only the authorities of the state administration can regulate their work in accordance with the sublaws.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7090	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7091	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for mentioning the party. Again, we listen to a variety of debates that mention the SNS, in which something is criticised, instead of explaining what was proposed. Of course, of course, one reason is that there's nothing to say. When someone proposes to delete Article 24, and then can't find anything controversial in the content of Article 24, it's clear what the amendment was all about, the opportunity to talk a little bit about SNS here for two minutes. An expert review of this amendment has been given by the Minister and there is really nothing to add. I just want to draw everyone's attention to this one more time through direct transmission, what's the difference between those who deal in this business dilettaneically and those who care about something and what's the content of it? The difference is, for example, the difference. He's looking at the fact that we're never going to be like the ones who's obsessed with bringing up SNS to suggest that something should be thrown out, and then here we'll explain how good it is. But the problem is what? What SNS didn't do yesterday. So he's fine, but he wants to kick him out. To be honest, he doesn't even know that man is what he wants. It's a good idea for the SNS. What's good, it's totally in the spirit of everything else good she's done in this room, but not just in this room, SNS. What's good the SNS will vote for the other day, and those who have a problem with obviously not being able to be joint candidates of the opposition in some of the elections they're most interested in right now, I regret the case, but I think they should solve that frustration elsewhere. After all, this is the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7092	Thank you. (Bosko Obradović, from town: Replica. I don't think you have a basis, pal. You're frustrated? What all fellow MPs won't do to get here in two minutes. The word is from MP Vlado Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7093	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I propose that this amendment be not accepted because Article 24 does not apply The bill regulates all issues that are very important for the prevention of violence, as well as for providing protection and support to the victim. So if there's a abuse against a woman, which often happens, every city should have a safe house where women and children would currently settle down, because many have neither material opportunities nor living space where they could isolate themselves to rehabilitate themselves for a possible independent life, I say eventually, because most of them know for what reasons they're going back to the middle where they've suffered violence. Women in a safe house should remain until all legal opportunities are completed to punish those who have committed an act of violence, that is, the act of aggression. Given the implementation of peace culture procedures in Sombor, the city from which I come, 2012 opened a safe house located in the social protection system, and as a local service, because the town of Sombor is its founder, he finances employees, and the support is done and given to it by specialised leaders. So far, 60 women have been taken care of, and only last year, 26. Other safe houses are run by NGOs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7094	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Branka Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7095	Thank you. With the amendment to this article, I have proposed that the coordination and co-operation groups, which exist at local level and on the ground face directly the measures they need to prevent violence, that these groups undertake to regularly, quarterlyally submit reports on their work to the Supreme Co-ordination Body, the Council for the Prevention of Family Violence. The government has rejected this amendment of mine, with an explanation that they do not understand why an obligation is imposed on which no clear reason is seen. Here, let me explain. The Istanbul Convention, which we have been signatories to since 2013, and which is why we are passing this law, in order to agree with it, requires that we have a top co-ordination body. In this bill of law, it is the Council for the Prevention of Family Violence. In this bill, the three positions of one member are dedicated to the powers of this Council and I have more amendments regarding the Council, it is not clear what it will do and why it exists? Will he exist only to exist and to receive fees, or to coordinate work on the field of local coordination groups? In that sense, I would ask once more to consider whether reports coming from the field of the Coordination Body should improve overall work within the entire Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7096	Thank you. The People's Messenger, LJupka Mihajlovska, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7097	In my amendment, I suggested that Article 24 add that at the request of the victim...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7098	MPs, your amendment has not yet been read. It's about my colleague Stankovic's amendment. Wait a minute. Does anyone else report for an amendment to a member of 24nd colleague Branka Stamenkovic? (No) LJupka Mihajlovska submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7099	I apologize for the misunderstanding. So the addition of Article 24 which would say that meetings of the coordination group can be attended by a person who knows the victim well, of course, on a proposal from the victim, is so-called. a face of trust. The government has rejected this amendment and explained this to me that it can be achieved without the adoption of this amendment. It is true that Article 24 states that other legal associations and individuals are listed among a number of representatives or potential participants in that coordination group, however, it is not stated here that this is at the victim's request. Believe it or not, I didn't make this up, this is a good practice recognised by the Rules on Additional Support for Students and Children, by which the Interressor Commission works when it assesses additional support for students with developing difficulties and that you have had time and that it is better intersectoral cooperation, you could consult the Social Inclusion Group at the Ministry of Education, which would tell you exactly how important this practice is, especially when it comes to groups that are not sufficiently social or psychologically strengthened. It is very important for them to invite a person who is professional enough, yet they trust to represent their interests. Otherwise, we're getting into a situation where someone else who's supposed to know what's better for the victim than herself, so I think you should think about this one more time and adopt this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7100	Thank you. Is anyone else answering this amendment? (No) In accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I set a break of one hour. We'll continue work at 3 p.m. [[after breaks]] We're moving on with our work. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Nogo, Bosko Obradović, Dr Dragan Vesovic, Marija Janjusevic, mr. Ivan Kostic and Zoran Radojićic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7102	Thank you, Chairman. We, of course, as in the previous two cases intervened, believing that such things could have been arranged and done long ago without this legal solution, and if that legal solution only came now, it's just proof of how long it takes SNS, which is five years, to do anything. Here's what this Article 25 says, which we normally advocate to erase in our first attitude. "The co-ordination and co-operation group consists of representatives of the main public prosecutors, police administrations and social work centres, from the area from which the group is organised. So, the question arises why was it not possible five years ago to create a coordination group consisting of representatives of the primary public prosecutors, police administrations and centres for social work, or why certain sublegal acts could not define and regulate this inter-resorial co-operation? I heard the answer from the minister. I closely follow her statements and it is known that I support her as a new person on the Serbian political scene and in the government of the Republic of Serbia, because when you compare her to, say, Vulin, or Rasimo Ljajic, she is indeed one refreshing and new person. But what I didn't understand, or I could even support it if I understood it well, which is, yes, this government is now solving this problem because it couldn't be solved by sublegal acts, which means she thinks this is a government that's only 100 days old. But this government is five years old. This government is in the fifth term. So now you, Madam Minister, have directly accused former Justice Minister Nikola Selakovic of not doing his job, that he has not proposed this law in the past five years. If he could have done all this, all this stuff that you've just come up with, and he didn't. Well, that's the point of what the Dvori say. Since you knew, when you were so smart, what didn't you do five years ago? That would mean preventing domestic violence in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7103	Right on the line, Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, as before, it is a pity that the breaks do not affect the way they should affect the Messengers of the people. Again, we hear about the SNS by one who should explain his amendment, and yet the one who explains his amendment suggests that something be deleted, and then, in an explanation, he says, although that's good, we just want to know why he's not before. All in all, when you draw a line, again as before this break, again as well as, now it's hard to count how many times in this room, one performance in style – living to me, Todor, to hear a speech. Why someone needs to talk so much about SNS, I think it's more than clear, because they're hoping it'll be something more important, something more interesting, that they'll get the public's attention. But these are all the wrong ways. If someone wants to pay attention for a reason, with a basis, they should suggest something good, something useful, something that will constructively contribute to the law. If he just needs to criticize that it would be heard of him, and then make some video clips and advertise them on social networks, maybe even you saw it, they're paying for commercials day and night now to admire themselves. It's some need he needs to solve internally, with himself, maybe at home when the exercise comes in front of the mirror, but it's not something he needs to do based on a minute in the National Assembly. It is not something to do on the basis of any trust acquired for working in the National Assembly. It's ladies and gentlemen, a cheap pulsism in an attempt. I say, in an attempt, because it doesn't seem popular, it manages to seem infinitely cheap. And, much luck in those elections that are so eager to be offered to others, practically as on the plate, he said he was making himself available, I'm afraid of all that, the dark hat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7105	Mr. Obradic, he didn't mention you once.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7106	I recognized myself.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7107	And you recognized each other? Do you offer yourself or practice, or clips...?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7108	Everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7109	Everything. Okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7110	Thank you, first of all, for being correct, because I really think it makes sense to give a replica and when you don't mention the name of a parliamentary group or an individual, for the simple reason that it's clear from previous exposure that this refers to previous exposure. So, I just want to mention one thing very briefly right now. I cannot understand the behaviour of individual SNS MPs that feeling of nervousness when even the slightest criticism is addressed to the government of the Republic of Serbia and Alexander Vukic. So Alexander Vukic is no deity, he's very prone to criticism. The government of the Republic of Serbia is a government in a democratic state in which the opposition as the main task has been criticised by the government. We would lose the sense of our existence in the National Assembly if we didn't do our opposition work, which is why we were elected here. I don't see what's at stake here that when we propose amendments, we criticise or debate in principle or in detail, we take a critical look at the ruling party. I can't understand, if you think you're in power without anyone criticizing you, it's only not logical. We still have less time than you, 20 times less time than you, and that little time that we have hurts you somehow, because somehow you would like that little time without opposition and that the opposition doesn't have at all. So, I'm just appealing, to realize that this is a more serious calling of the National Assembly, that the opposition is much better organized and stronger than it was before, that you can't easily deal with the opposition, but that you can't even end it, and we'll continue to criticise the SNS in all our speeches, because you're in power, and that's our job.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7111	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7112	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, again mentioning the party and that is a very clear understanding basis. He comes out of the Rules of Procedure, when I don't mention either party or name, for the simple reason I find them completely politically relevant, so they get a chance to speak, I don't mind. We said a long time ago, the more opportunities there are for some people to speak here, the more clear they will be to what they have, or how much they do not have to offer. So, as far as we're concerned, we're absolutely comfortable with every second they get, it's just a shame not for us or for them, but for this country and for these citizens to spend that time on pointless debates that won't do them any good. On the contrary, as I said to them, harm. But let each of you use your time as you can. Just because he says he's got a little bit of it, it's simply the result of some result in some elections. It's something people can do to themselves, if they're going to be angry. The tragedy is that, as long as we have it, they can't use it. When I say that, I mean in a good, constructive quality way, rather than using it for unsuccessful advertising attempts. We also mentioned those video clips, remember that, I think one of the better funded in that advertising clip where someone calls themselves a virus. I was in the O.R. when it happened, and I said hi. I said I don't mind. Feel free to qualify for a certain self in that way. Just so there's no doubt about it, even though some people think of themselves as some kind of scary and dangerous virus, maybe like some kind of Ebola or something. The fact that the ceiling is the home of some people, a stomach bug that doesn't ask for medication, is just asking to take care of hygiene, I think that's a certain conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7113	The word is from Sonja Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7114	Thank you. Dear Chairman, I am reporting for the amendment that has been submitted by my colleagues to delete this member of the law and, as I have read the reasoning that has been repeated two or three times, I have wondered if my colleagues know why we are passing this new law, for the first time in Serbia, such a law. Dear colleagues because the state authorities and institutions fighting violence in the family were not sufficiently organised, and the legal framework they were working on was not unique. That is why this law brings specialised police and prosecutors and a strong social labour centre, in particular the coordination of all state authorities and institutions, all in order to prevent domestic violence. I will not vote for this amendment in voting day. I would also like to see fellow amendment applicants present here because Serbian citizens do not know the reason. It's always said that amendments are being submitted to improve the laws, but I've never seen in the voting day for a vote for my amendment, and I'd like to see that. They're never in the O.R. So, the reason is not to improve the law...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7115	Please return to your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7116	... It's just those two minutes of big shot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7117	The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojčić.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7118	Thank you. Article 25. The draft law clearly and decadently defines the composition of the Coordination and Co-operation Group. The amendment promoter requests that Article 25 be completely deleted. Of course, the amendment should not be accepted, first of all for reasons because the Co-ordination and Co-operation Group has, above all, a preventive character and preventive action in relation to the victim of domestic violence. What is clouded, what is drawing away from the essence, the populist stories that are actually heard here are only populist stories, and the bottom line is that this government, as a responsible government, has first passed a law on the prevention of domestic violence and for the first time made possible for the victims of domestic violence, or the competent police officers, to impose emergency detention measures of 48 hours that the court can extend to 30 days. Until now, in our legal legislation, these powers have neither been conferred on the police nor been defined in this law by the Coordination and Co-operation Group, the composition of the group and, of course, the sublegal act to be adopted in order to make the Group's coordination and co-operation work better and more efficient. All of these are reasons why erasing Article 25 is unacceptable for all those who advocate, and the SNS advocates to establish a new standard, which is zero tolerance for violence. This amendment is unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7119	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Gorica Gajic. Does anyone want a word? The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Nogo, Bosko Obradović, Dr Dragan Vesovic, Marija Janjusevic, Mr Ivan Kostic and Zoran Radojčić. Does anyone want a word? The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7120	Dear colleagues, this is an extremely important amendment for us, because we want to point to another inaccuracies in the functioning of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which we have strongly suggested in the process of forming this third government of Alexander Vukic that it is necessary to form a Ministry of Family Care. Of course, this ministry has not been formed and, of course, one of the most important and important topics in Serbia today has been forgotten again, which is the family theme, it is the fight against the white plague, it is the protection of family values. But in this law, you mention it for the first time, so I can really praise it as a big step, that after five years, the SNS has realized the importance of family protection in our society. However, we had to correct you because, as this Article 26 says, the minister in the field should also enter into coordination, or who is in charge of family protection affairs. You see, we don't have that minister. Namely, we don't have a family ministry and we don't have a minister for family protection. You will, of course, tell me, Madam Minister, that I don't know enough about it and how in our, let me say, the systematization of ministries there is the Ministry of Labour, Social Affairs, the fight against poverty and social exclusion and how it should deal with family protection. Then why doesn't this family protection come into the name of that ministry? It's so important to you family protection that you forgot to put it in the name of the Ministry of Family Protection. So, I'm just saying don't be impeccable without being hypocritical. You don't have a Minister of Family Protection, because if that topic were important to you, you'd have a special ministry, or in the name of the existing ministry, you'd point out the word - family protection. So you prove to this too that your family is not in the first place and that you do not understand the importance of family policy in the 21st century, and that is what we are constantly arguing with you. The family must indeed become the main topic in Serbia today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7121	Just to remind the MPs that the amendment reads that words are deleted – the minister responsible for family protection affairs. That's what the promoter asked for. Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7122	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yeah, party again. This is already becoming something more constructive than it was, so I'm going to adjust the reaction in that sense. So it's nice that some things are commendable, because they deserve to be commended. On that side, all right. A constant problem with math counting some years, counting mandates, let's forgive that. We used to be here to show the width and tolerance for much greater failures. How much good does someone count on him? Not everything that's been said here right now has anything to do with family protection issues, absolutely nothing. It's once again an opportunity to talk a little wide, but it's too bad it's not a little bit backed up by some knowledge, something that's behind it, something that can back it up. When he explained this amendment in writing, the promoter stated that he did not know who the ministry was at all. He said it was some ministry that doesn't seem to exist at all, so he plans to kick him out of the text of the law. Today he's telling us he might have some idea, but he's got a grudge on his name. To be clear, the issue of family protection is regulated through the Ministry Act, but just like the Rules of Procedure, it takes MPs not to hate doing their job, so they should not hate someone to take some and read some laws, e.g. It's the Ministry Act. Just a little help from my side. I think there's a term in Article 16 right now - family legal protection. Which ministry is treated in that member I will leave to those who have a chronic need to be loud enough to investigate alone. Thank you very much. (Bosko Obradović, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7123	Based on what replica? (Bosko Obradović, from the city: Misreading. ) Misreading? There isn't. Take it easy. The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7124	Thank you. The amendment relating to Article 26 of course should not be accepted precisely because the Ministry Act is clear and decidently precise that family legal protection affairs are in the portfolio of the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs. But I want to draw attention to something else. Proposers of this amendment request correction of Article 26. I think it's hypocritical, since they're looking to delete Articles 25 and 24. Article 26. In accordance with the methodology for the production of legal provisions, it is directly derived from the previous two members of the law. Therefore, a question of the good intentions of the amendment's promoter to advance this law is raised. Of course she's not standing. As for the SNS, the SNS is very interested in the family, is very interested in preserving the family, is very interested in functional families, and is very interested in the family's mental and physical health. It is precisely by the proposal of this law that the Government shows that everything that I have stated is committed to the family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7125	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Nogo, Bosko Obradović, Dr Dragan Vesović, Marija Janjusevic, Mr Ivan Kostic and Zoran Radojčić. Does anyone want a word? The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7126	If I understand correctly, the Serbian government should be absolutely commended for realizing after five years of government that this law should be passed. If that is to be commended, then define that we should commend it, that indeed after five years of intensive SNS authorities have understood the importance of family, understand the importance of preventing domestic violence and finally passed that law. It would already be an exact and precise formulation that we from the opposition could accept and support, but don't say that this is the new government when this is the old government that's been going on for five years. What's the problem with this amendment right now is what we've been arguing on several occasions, which is the role given to the Judicial Academy. So we think that this whole concept of specialist training, which the legislator predicted, is, again, in some way, made up here, because we already have and operate institutions and experts who are very serious about the problem of domestic violence. So, we've already got those institutions. Again, the question arises whether these institutions have never done their jobs before, so it takes legislation to get them into special training? I don't see who's stopped them from doing special training so far and preventing domestic violence. So, does it take law for anything in Serbia from existing laws and ministries to start working? From now on, when SNS doesn't do anything or its personnel are incompetent, it is necessary to introduce a special law that they pray to start doing their job and apply their laws. In doing so, are there any law schools in this country? Aren't law schools, our most prominent professors at law schools in Serbia much more professional than the Judicial Academy to provide support and adapt to these emerging circumstances and different forms of domestic violence? So, we believe that the disputed competences of the Judicial Academy are to carry out those trainings and that is why we have tabled this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7127	The word has Minister Nela Kuburovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7128	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to specialized training, I would like my colleague Obradovic to have in mind the Law on Judges and the Law on Public Prosecutors, which accurately states and prescribes who can conduct training when it comes to both judges and public prosecutors, and it is the Judicial Academy that is solely competent to do so. This does not mean that law school professors, who usually participate in training, cannot participate in the work of the Judicial Academy and conduct training, but it is precisely an institution that is solely responsible for conducting training. Whether training is needed or not, I think that in modern society it is necessary that we all improve constantly, even if it is both judges and public prosecutors, especially given that lately, regulations are often passed and regulate areas with which they have not yet had experience in their work and it is simply necessary and that they have appropriate training. So, their laws, which regulate their status and position and how they predict that it is necessary to also have permanent, or continuous training, but also specialised training, when it comes to the specific laws that are being passed. One such law is also the proposal for a law on the prevention of domestic violence, which certainly implies that judges must be trained when it comes to the application of these provisions. This isn't the first time special training has been introduced. You also have Family Law, which also provides for the obligation for judges who act in family relations to have specialised training, judges who deal in criminal proceedings with minors, is also required special training, not just for judges and prosecutors, so this is just one continuity of what has been in practice for more than 10 years. Now it's the Judicial Academy, it used to be the Justice Center. If I didn't have to stay in debt, I could accept the criticism that we're just now passing the law that we've had a problem with domestic violence for the last five years, so we're the culprits why we haven't responded before. This is a problem that this society has been facing for much longer, and I have to draw attention to that violence, even though there is a long number of years here, what is visible and visible, and statistics can't fool us that much, is that just over the last two years there has been an increased report of violence, which shows that the victims have also dared, so the number of violence reported in the family is up to three, four thousand more than it was in 2010 or 2011. One more thing, since you mentioned my predecessor, counterpart Nikola Selakovic, how much credit it is that this law is now proposed to the Ministry in the current composition, I must say that Mr Nikola Selakovic has just formed a working group and that it has finished much of the work during his term of office, so this is the result of both joint work and the current ministry and ministry that worked until 11 August.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7129	On what basis, Mr. Radovic? But what's wrong with your... ? (Bosko Obradovic, from the post: By amendment, as authorised. Do you want the word after the amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7130	Thank you. Thank you, dear colleagues, for supporting me in my performance. So it is an extraordinary honor and pleasure for me to hear, Madam Minister, that you support one of the most important flows of the government of the Democratic Authority and its judicial reform, which is the Judicial Academy. I am pleased that on another case, I have proved that you are nothing but ordinary DS policy continuations and that you are following in everything the fluids of touch reforms from 5 October 2000 to today. So it's a good judicial academy, so why don't you say so? It's a good government of the DS. Is it a good government of the DS? Well, I'm saying it's not a good government of the DS, but you're keeping the DS personnel and keeping the institutions that the DS made, and we're saying they're bad. So we're the true opposition, and you're the continuity of the DS government. You're DOS continuity. You're the top of DOS. How much confusion you're best at saying this when you say that you're not sure now either, whether they're being trained by professors at law school or trained by the Judicial Academy. Is Minister of Family Protection, Minister Vulin and Ministry of Labour, or is it Minister without portfolio Mrs Slavica Djukic Dejanovic? You people don't even know what you want. You don't even know what the minister is in charge of. You don't even know who your special training is. You're the only one who knows how to continue DS policy. Now, that's not necessary for Serbia. Serbia and when it voted for SNS, it voted to change DS policy. No one voted for the SNS then to continue DS policy. You're the one who tricked the voters. All right, after that, you kidnapped the media, you took over all the power, and you forcefully continued to rule. That's what we know. That part goes on. But I want to tell you one important and precise thing. Commend something that was good at DS, when you're using it well and supporting it. If nothing was good, then don't let the Judicial Academy train you, because the Judicial Academy is a bad thing from the time of the DS Justice Reform. I think I've been very specific. Are you the new yellow or are you in something different from the old yellow ones? Tell me -- we're the new DS, we're better at taking Serbia on a trip to the EU, we work better for the interests of Brussels, Washington, Berlin, the IMF, the World Bank, than the DS ever could. And then Boris Tadic will turn out to be a serious patriot for you. And Boris Tadic is no longer DS, it is now a problem in, let's say, the disintegration of DS. But what's your problem here is the confusion of the institutions you're introducing here or inheriting from the DS. Will he eventually teach specialized training as professors of law school or law school? Will the minister in charge of family protection be Minister Vulin or Slavica Djukic Dejanovic? Have you resolved any of this, do you have any clear plan or do you need five more years of SNS rule to resolve these dilemmas? There, that's the point of the story. So it took you five years to figure out what to do about preventing domestic violence, that's what it says about your incompetence.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7131	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7132	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yeah, it's a replica again. Interesting scene. I didn't want to intervene, we let me take advantage of whoever had that keen desire to say something here right now, to take advantage of that time he has. Like we said, it's not bad to talk, to have people hear it, to have a little fun. It doesn't have to be the atmosphere of the Assembly just to be dreary, like the one we unfortunately had on Friday. A bit of a viewer can blow himself off, for example, when he listens to something like that a little while ago. The SNS and other other parties, parties of the former regime, at least in two variants, and some former president, were mentioned. He's not quite himself, the one who mentioned them, what he meant. Something criticized them, trying to connect them to the SNS, though he praised them. Then he said, "Well, commend good and good things." Why? I think it's more than clear. We have a severe identity crisis here. Someone who wants to be a critic of all regimes, from 2000 to 2012, and today to criticise the SNS, has a problem explaining to himself how to criticise these DOSs and other parties and those former presidents, who made it themselves, whose political relic is. And that problem, that confusion with those five years, that she keeps talking about, I get it now. From somewhere at that time, some first money came to make a party of something that was once the movement of honest people, and what a man had completely personalized to have through what and who to admire himself with. Now, this man who was made by this party mentioned earlier, and this man who was made by this former president of the Republic that he mentioned earlier, then, about five years ago today, he got the first big money, the first printed material to hang it all over Belgrade, and then, we remember it all well, he couldn't say a word about it. Today he's sharing some stage with them, but today he won't get their support for anything I regret. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7133	Thank you, MP. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7134	I thank you, President. Of course, according to the amendment. Let's be completely open and honest when it comes to proposing and proposing a proposal for an amendment like this. He is primarily political and has absolutely no dimension of contact with the law itself. Why? Because it would be extremely pointless, it would be a legal nonsension if article 27 were kicked out of the law. We're taking out the crucial, core part of the law, which is training, or specialization. In addition, the amendment promoter, other than asking for a member to be deleted, does not give an alternative. Who else is going to conduct education or specialisation or any kind of training other than existing institutions? Secondly, what we saw in the opening statement by authorised representatives, as I recall, when we were in principle discussing this law, the only objection was the financing of the Judicial Academy, which is funding and from which the initiative was allegedly set up by the Judicial Academy. I would also ask the amendment promoter and all MPs here to strictly take care of the students of the Judicial Academy and not to insult them. Why? Because the degradation or attempt to degrade the students of the Judicial Academy in this way seems very bold and, let me say, in a way that is absolutely inappropriate because enrolment at the Judicial Academy is very, very difficult, in terms of passing the exam, that the process of professional training at the Judicial Academy is a complex process that requires a high level or high quantity of knowledge and that those final students of the Judicial Academy have a respectable level of knowledge. Obviously, the Proposer of the Judicial Academy does not know the very system of work of the Judicial Academy, who are lecturers, who conveys that knowledge. The old Chinese wisdom says: "It is not knowledge to know, but knowledge to give. If so, then we are on a good path to getting right through that specialization that is possible, and it is possible through the Judicial Academy, we get specialized, or professionally trained entities or persons who will apply, and by practical application of this law, to allow it to become as effective as possible, in terms of protecting the victims of violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7135	The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Markovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7136	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, an absolutely unacceptable amendment. So the amendment to Article 27 reads - is deleted. So, the typical amendment, the type explanation, the type story. I am pleased that the amendment promoter confirmed everything that Mr. Orlic said earlier. It's the same story - five years this, five years this, five years that SNS has been doing this for five years, five years hasn't done anything. I guess they think it's going to be true. Well, he won't. The truth will never become true. Five years ago, so on November 22, 2011, the SNS was not in power. Five years ago, on November 22, 2011, the prime minister was Mirko Cvetkovic or at least pretended to be prime minister. Five years ago, on November 22nd 2011, the president was Boris Tadic. What does that have to do with SNS? Absolutely nothing. The Serbian Progressive Party has not been in power for five years. So, I ask you, Madam Chairman, to once again draw attention to the amendment's proposing that it be informed first before it honors something here. So, one more thing. In the debate, one remark was heard, I guess he wanted to make it more serious for himself now, in this mandate, that the opposition was more serious than it was in the previous term. So only the action of the Proposer of this amendment deny such a single claim.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7137	Okay, that has nothing to do with the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7138	Thank you. I suggest that this amendment be rejected.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7139	Thank you. The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milovan Bojic, Miljan Damjanovic and Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7140	By amendment to Article 27, we wanted to agree on something that already exists in the existing laws. A member who regulates training, specialized training, certification and now the Judicial Academy is training on the basis of its programme. We think this criminal and police academy should do it on the basis of its own program. Although they are very specific higher education institutions, I must remind you that the Police Academy exists before the DOS and there are reasons why they are called Academys, not called universities or colleges. But no matter what they are under the direct patronage of the state, they have the proper degree of their autonomy, and autonomy is seen above all in having their own programs. The compatibility of the program should probably exist, but certainly police training has some specificity and some skills to learn, certainly not those skills that should be present at the Judicial Academy. That's why we've submitted this amendment, to simply correct what we think you've missed. We do not dispute the similarity of these two programmes, but we believe that each of these academics should independently prescribe this programme, and you, as a government, as a promoter, who still has a patronate over the whole process, can also provide this alignment. However, I would use, if you would allow me, and this time of the authorised representative for this item of the agenda, since this is the last amendment of the SRS to this bill, to look back on both this amendment and some previous amendments. I think this law may be in our best interest, but we're not going to solve any problems. There's a lot of problems. Basically there's a bad concept, a wrong starting point. The starting point is what's signed in Istanbul, it binds us. As it is written, so we should shake it here into the legal system of the Republic of Serbia and that's it. This is one of the rules that proves Serbia is walking firmly towards the European Union. But a regulation that won't allow exactly the results that we all want. I must draw attention to the fact that in 2003, a law was passed on the prevention of violence at sports events. And then we from the SRS warned that it was a bad concept, that nothing good would happen and, unfortunately, after 13 years, we all realized that the problem had not been solved. A similar fate will have this law. I have to realize that a rather one-sided display or approach to this matter was during this debate and in general because we have predetermined who is the victim and who is the possible perpetrator of the act of violence. I want to point out that the possible perpetrator of the act of violence can be anyone who is covered by this regulation as a member of the family household, in a broad sense of the word, and that each of them can be a victim, regardless of the years of life, property, gender, etc. I need to draw your attention to another fact. A large number of procedures for domestic violence are being conducted against members of the police. You must know that you will find it difficult to find in police stations people who will be willing to pass this training to apply this law. Why? Because people who have had the opportunity to hold objects of domestic violence in their hands, whether by the Family Relations Act or the Criminal Code, and here I have one of those items, these are the things that are most disgusting to read. Why? Because it's coming out the most intimate dirty laundry of married friends. It's very difficult for something that basically has emotion, over time, that emotion is lost, and then some interests come up and other elements come up and we can't really solve it. You need to know that a large number of prosecutors are divorced, a large number of judges are divorced, well, it might be a little bit rude, that by any chance we've written an amendment that will train and work on these cases only prosecutors and judges who have a stable marriage, because now we're going to come into a situation that a visperous lawyer can disabling a complete law, an absolutely complete law. I need to draw your attention that you haven't solved the basic thing, and that's that after every such case, there's an imminent divorce and there's going to be an opening of issues of education, education, care, property, etc. This law will raise such questions, without the intention of prejudge, without the intention of being misunderstood, any violence is punishable, socially condemned, long ago. There's violence in the family since there's been a family, sanctions for domestic violence are modern fluids. It's been going on for over 200 years and our existing legal system exists an appropriate instrument, but in this way, with a regulation like this, we're not going to do well, because an act of economic violence can be done when a husband tells his wife, I'm sorry, I didn't get paid, I can't give you that much and that much money for some things. He comes to the police, reports the man and what happens to that man. Or what a lady called me about, because of a simple family, a matrimonial argument, she went to the police so nervous to report it, the cops wouldn't do it, because they saw it didn't have much to do with it, God knows what. They came in ten days later, and the man was brought in, and they took away his gun, because he had permission to keep a gun in his house, and then the woman apologized to her wife that she didn't mean it, etc. Let me explain to you, I'm not going to do it now because of the name and last name of a man who lives on Starlight because he's easily entered into some marriage relationship, managed primarily by some emotion. Be careful people, be careful this bill has more flaws than good solutions. This bill only has a plebiscitarian commitment to rights and nothing else. There's no guarantee they'll do it the way we all want them to. In practice, it'll be dangerous. Remember, there are organized groups of people in our society who live on what they want to do in the process of Euro-integration and want to live on what they impose on the story of domestic violence. Be sure of that. I didn't purposely open the issue of property and someone's grandfather. Now I'm asking any of the present here, if this law were to be applied, how would the issue of rent, electricity and other things be resolved? Not to talk about ownership. This should not work, as an incentive to violent people, to suppress violent men at every turn, but this bill offers many unspeakable solutions to the possibility of abuse. Remember, find out how many judges are divorced, find out how many prosecutors are divorced, find out how many cops are divorced, find out how many cases of domestic violence are conducted against judges, against prosecutors, and especially against cops. In some places, they say, half the cops are in some domestic violence procedure. The wives came and reported them. Is it an act of violence or who knows? Will these people who are authorized to evaluate be able to assess that? I doubt it, I doubt it. I think the best way to do this is to get this back to a good deal, this bill of law. And as for evidence that we have met the conditions on that path to the EU, forget it. Forget it, it's nothing.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7141	The MPs of the SDPS group submitted together to Article 28 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is Jasmine Karanac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7142	I thank the chairman. Dear Minister, fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, I would like first to express my satisfaction that the amendment of the SDPS parliamentary group to Article 28 has been accepted. A bill on the prevention of domestic violence, since this allows victims of violence to receive all the necessary information in a way and in a language that the victim understands in the first contact with the national authorities or institutions responsible for the application of this law. I stress in a way and in a language understood to the victims, and we think this is important because this will become an integral part of the law because the victim of violence rarely comes from another speaking area. Unfortunately, these are both children and persons distracted in development, and they are of great importance to understand how they can get the necessary support and protection. I think it is not bad that this law is being discussed for a few days and it is a good thing that this topic has been present in the media in recent days, in order for Serbian citizens to get as much information as possible about the newspaper that this law brings, in order to reduce domestic violence to the lowest possible extent. I must also point out that we from the SDPS parliamentary group are satisfied that four of our amendments to this bill have been accepted, saying that there is mutual will and intention to fix one of the most important laws in the area of justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7143	Thank you. The 28th Amendment was submitted by Gorica Gajic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 28th Amendment was submitted by Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7144	I have submitted this amendment to Article 28, which determines the obligation of the victim of violence coming to report violence to provide basic information on what he can do. Then I specified that the state authorities that should provide this basic information were the police administration and the prosecution, the courts of general jurisdiction, the criminal courts, the social protection centres. The government rejected this amendment with an explanation that it already exists in Article 28th position that says that the primary victim should contact her to inform her of her rights. My question and concern is next. Since there will be some training for the people who are dealing with this, will all the people who are employed in these state bodies know that they are directing the victim to the information she needs? So, let's say if the victim walks into a police station, runs into the first cop he sees, will he really be able to guide her to what she needs to do? Maybe, say, he won't know who he's talking to. Maybe they'll transfer her to another clerk's office to another body, another institution. That is why I have proposed that the highest decision in that institution determine the exact persons to be in charge of this duty, in order to know exactly who should be in each of these institutions to refer the victims to the exercise of their rights. I would only ask for an explanation, whether it will be possible, even if it is not specified by a special decision of the largest organ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7145	Thank you. MPs Velimir Stanojevic and Dubravka Filipovski submitted the 28th amendment together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) LJupka Mihajlovska submitted to Article 29 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 29th Amendment was submitted by Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) LJupka Mihajlovska submitted to Article 30 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Ljupka Mihajlovska.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7146	Article 24 after item 5 adds item 6 so that, at the request of the victim, the Co-ordination Group can attend the person, I apologize. The point is to delete the part – if the victim is not mentally or physically able to participate in the development of an individual protection plan because there is a discretionary right practically to decide whether the victim is capable or not. My idea was to leave – if the victim wants to, and certainly no one will force her, but simply, to avoid this possibility that happens often with people who are possibly deprived of their business skills or something like that, to be assigned to them by someone who actually decides on the level of support they need. So to delete this part – if the person is mentally or physically able to participate in the work.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7147	The word has a folk MP, Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7148	Thank you, President. I fully agree with the Government's view that the proposed amendment should be rejected because Article 2 is Article 30. The bill's kind of complete. What do I mean by that? I mean, we're all different people, different mental circuits, and we react differently in certain situations of life. The involvement of the victim in the development of an individual plan of protection and support may also be counterproductive to the victim of violence due to the emotional state, as the violence experienced causes shock, stress and trauma and is maintained on her psychosomatic health which may and may deteriorate in the situation of repeated images of violence. I mean, it's already said in a member of this bill that in the work of the Coordination Group competent and professional people are involved to assess the impact of repeating images of violence on the victim's emotional state and thus decide on the participation of the victim in the development of an individual protection plan.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7149	Thank you For Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Dusan Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7150	This is about an amendment that proposes temporary financial assistance for victims of violence, especially in those cases where they are separated from the violent ones. The reason is that in a large number of cases, these are researches from some Western countries that I've had the opportunity to see, in a large number of cases the victims don't want to report abusers because they're scared of the future material condition, and that's one of the basic reasons why they rarely report. It would also be good, for example, since the ministry has long and thoroughd its work on this law, according to the minister, that, for example, it has done one research. There are sociologists, statisticians, criminologists in this country who have been able to conduct research, to see to what extent this is possible with us, let's say, to see to what extent the victims hardly agree to report the bully because they're afraid of their material future. I suggested that then there be one graduation, so all victims of violence that are separated from the bullys for a long time get social aid depending on whether they have or do not have children. This amendment has been rejected, imagine, because there is no specific source from which this financial aid would be given to victims of violence. I suppose the amendment was in principle okay, but I forgot to put it as the budget of the Republic of Serbia, where material aid is otherwise paid for by all similar cases, which is why the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7151	The word is Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7152	Thank you. The amendment to Article 30, in which a new chapter 6 and 7 is added after Article 5, should be rejected for the next reason. First of all, I would like to say that Article 30 is one of the essential almost most important when it comes to the protection of victims of domestic violence, and it refers to an individual plan of protection and support for the victim. Why does the amendment have to be rejected? It should be rejected primarily for a reason because the amendment's proposer requires it to be in art. 6th and 7th are regulated by unconditional financial assistance. I have to say one other thing. The individual plan of support and protection of the victim is not a recipe given to all victims. The individual plan for support and protection of victims is strictly personalised and strictly specific. It depends on many of the life circumstances in which the victim is found. That is one reason why this amendment is unacceptable. Another reason why the amendment is unacceptable is that all research, although at the very least I think it is only now possible to do research, when this law comes into force and when there is a centralised database and based on relevant data, will only then be able to do research. But what I'm saying is that the victim's profile so far based on research so far suggests that the victim has no direct relationship with socio-material status, that the victim can be anyone, regardless of gender, regardless of income, regardless of education, regardless of social status. These are the reasons why this amendment is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7153	The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7154	Thank you. If I understand the SNS MP correctly, the reason why an amendment has not been accepted to guarantee the social assistance of women who are victims of violence, who cannot support their family and children, is because the research has not been done, and the research may one day be done. And since we don't know anything about it, and there may be sacrifices that are well-being, so it doesn't need to be granted social assistance to women who are victims of violence and who can't survive on their own or children who are raised, because that's the essence of what we think the letter said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7155	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7156	Thank you. Just to be clear, since it's already been said that not every victim has to be economically endangered, so it can't be legally foreseen that someone has unconditional financial assistance unless they need it. Co-ordination groups can also include the National Employment Service in their work, so if there is a need for the employment of the victim, it is one way to enable economic protection. On the other hand, the criterion of whether someone has a child or not to be a condition for determining the amount of financial assistance I think is unacceptable, especially since the victim may be an elderly person, and then the question is that someone who has a full - age child or a much older person can come into such a situation that the number of children determines the amount of assistance he will receive, especially if we are aware that there is also a legal obligation for children to support their parents. So, this is how the proposed amendment couldn't possibly have been accepted, precisely for these reasons that I've given you, and I'm particularly apostrophe that the number of children as many as one person has can certainly not be the determining factor in the amount of cash compensation the victim will receive.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7157	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7158	Thank you. So, she reiterated the minister's similar argument, because there are persons who are victims of violence, who are older, have no children, because there are good things in the law you didn't foresee on this matter. The apostle Pavlovic made it clear that we have a serious problem that victims of violence do not report violence because they fear for their existence because they cannot support children and their family. Since the law is really quick and passed and an emergency procedure is passed, what we have managed to put into the law is one simple measure. You could have fixed that measure. Of course, you haven't said anything about it, but you're finding reasons to justify the fact that in law you didn't provide for helping those who were victims of violence who couldn't support their family. We think this is a very weak argument and it says that you haven't thought about all the things that had to be thought about when the law was proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7159	Members of the 31st Amendment were submitted to the same text by MP Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7160	Thank you very much. The objective of the amendment is to create accurate records that will be conducted in the competent police administration, in the prosecution, at the social work centre with precise guidance on what should be in those records, and all to make one catalogue of violent persons, as one preventive measure that when someone thinks, they will raise their own hand, or, of course, they intend to cause someone pain, whether it's physical or verbal, that they think it'll be part of a single record and that for the rest of their life it will stand in that record, that everyone will know and that there's no way to fix it at any time, it's called prevention. It's a very serious issue of violence, and I think we need to take this seriously. Imagine an average family. You've got a woman named, like, a Serbian woman, you've got some crazy woman who's been harassing her every day, threatening her, saying, "I'm gonna kick your ass like samal, I'm gonna shoot you down like a helicopter, I'm gonna destroy you like a pension, I'm gonna destroy you alive." Imagine, four years, not five years, four years for someone to tell you something like that every day? Oh, that's what's going on. He says, "Well, I work 25 hours a day and you work for me like that," and he says, "I'm a failure" here, so I'm the most honest, the ones who follow me, well, they're the best possible." Imagine that you have four years each day? I think it's... So they say, “You will kneel like a journalist, so you will throw like Krasic.” Imagine if you had such a condition in your home...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7161	Thank you very much. You've wasted your time. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: and my five minutes.) As you know, you've been explaining the amendment for two minutes. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: What? Well, I don't know, that's how you decided when you made the Rules of Procedure. And I wonder what, especially when someone's having a nice discussion about the subject, it's nice to listen. I'm sorry it's been two minutes. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7162	Thank you. The amendment refers to a record to be made by the police department. So, the bill, as the Government has proposed, implies that data is collected, that records are made, both on each individual case and on the application of the law. Our amendment means very detailed what data should contain that record. The reason for not accepting the amendments is to call on the Personal Data Protection Act. You must certainly have data handlers under the Personal Data Protection Act, regardless of whether you take one of the data defined in the Personal Data Protection Act or any information you may have in the Personal Data Protection Act. You must have an authorized person to handle personality data. So, that argument doesn't stand. I can understand that the promoter says – I want to collect these data, I think they are optimal, useful, possible for good handling, but in this case it is also about the personality data for which you must have an authorised person to handle these data. Data about us, whether it's a sensitive sector like this where someone takes our personal data or any of them are a very sensitive subject, whether it's your JMB as one of your data, through your signature or any information that speaks of you. Our proposal is to collect all possible data in one place. As a result, it has been expanded and expanded in relation to the detailed description of what the police administration records contain, what contains the records of the General Public Prosecutor's Office, which contains the records of the Social Labour Centre. Whether we end up agreeing to accept this amendment or not, almost all of the data we offered to accept in the amendment, somewhere in these three places will have to be collected. It's an experience that countries that are similar to laws, like this one, have already used. Why is this member important? Because the data will be collected in a different context, in different times, in different situations by different services. One type of data will be collected by the public prosecutor's office, another type of data will be collected by the Social Labour Centre, the third is by the police administration. In all these three places you have to have people who are authorized to handle our data, if we are directly involved in acts of domestic violence. Manipulation of these data, data trafficking, illegal handling of personality data already have as an example and as a practice. No one ever paid attention to that law that I couldn't talk about my medical records, that I couldn't talk about contracts that I make, if they weren't public, that I couldn't talk about the address that I have if it was personal data. Therefore, the way the legislation looks at data is changing and given the sensitivity of this topic, it is very important that we collect all possible data. I don't mind even voting for the law in general. I promised in the debate in the principle that I would say, when I measure, whether I vote, knowing that some things will not be applied because it is an ethical thing or I will not vote because I do not want to feel the responsibility to say something – I am in, and then you do not have the mechanism, or the power to follow how it is not applied, and that people do not feel what is good in the idea of the law and what are members and provisions that directly need to change the quality of life and the abusers and victims of domestic violence. So, my vote for this law you have, and my suggestion is that very carefully, if we don't change in this member of the law, we do it as soon as possible in sublegal acts, to take care of the data, which are personality data, especially as it comes to minors and the siennas of other data that should then be followed by that family, whether it remains together or if a criminal report has been raised or someone from that family, who has committed a crime of domestic violence, is being prosecuted and convicted. It's the data that stays, they're talking about us, they're talking about this family, they're talking about those who have absolutely no guilt about the violence that's been going on in the family. I end up with this, part of the amendment that I did not put together with colleagues from the DS Parliament Club in this text is a responsibility for individuals in special centres where the data is collected, believing that the Data Protection Act should do so for itself and for those who oversee the application of the law to know, but conscience their work and the ethical dilemma that I have, since I know how to handle data about us and what abuses everything there is, from photos to documents from health care, from the military, from the police who share themselves with journalists because it's fun to be violent with other people's data, that simply in the protocols that you have, when this member develops, they make sure that they are in the system of control and persons who are not directly in the police administration, and they are in the social work center, or in the prosecution.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7163	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7164	Thank you. The reason why the amendment was not accepted is, above all, because we believe that what has already been proposed in the bill itself is covered by these records that you are predicting. By what's in the bill at one point, you've split it into two. I must point out that in the first draft of the law, which we sent to the relevant authorities, we had a broader and more comprehensive record, however, of the Commissioner for Public Information we received a negative opinion. They've turned our attention to the fact that we need to take care of the data being processed and that the records don't need to contain data relating to victims, their health status, receiving social assistance, so that the records are consistent with these observations, and being constrained. Just to be clear, since you haven't pointed that out now, with regard to the duration of the record. You've had a complaint in the course of a principled debate that this record should not be limited to five years, someone has already had objections that it should be a permanent character. It was one of the Commissioner's remarks why it's impossible to have a lasting character, but we've adopted one of the amendments, so that record instead of five extended to 10 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7165	The word is Gorica Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7166	Please, Miss Minister Gajic is not Gajevic. Thank you. At the end of the proposal for a law on protection against domestic violence is also a record of cases of domestic violence. I would not repeat myself, since my colleague Komic and colleague Zivkovic mostly had a similar amendment to us from the DSS, where we have specified what all should contain records of all the competent authorities, i.e. institutions that are in charge and which we have designated as pillars that will carry most of the work in preventing domestic violence. It's just, I think one piece of information, and that's data on previously taken measures from the jurisdiction and the police and the prosecution and the courts and the social work centre, should be on the record of all these institutions. I suppose you thought when you narrowed this down, I also heard your argument about the protection of personality data, that that central registry would contain all that data, individually from all these records, and that the person who has the password protected by entering the central register would have all this data that we have now completed with the amendment. This amendment is convenient to look again at all these institutions that I mentioned earlier, which will be the main carrier of the work in preventing domestic violence, did you from the Ministry of the Ministry of State analyse how much our competent institutions are ready to do, or whether they have enough employees, because mostly in the field I hear that they have very few employees and prosecutors and courts and police and centres for social work. They are overworked by their responsibilities and will be a big problem to sort of separate, separate officials who will complete specialized training and who will later be carefully and exhaustively dealing with this problem. It will be part of the employees we will exclude from the regular activities of these institutions so far. So it's going to be a very big problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7167	Thank you. Members of the LSV and Green Serbia MPs jointly submitted to the 31st amendment. The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7168	I thank the president. With this amendment of ours, we have tried to influence Article 31 of the Law, which regulates the resort, or central record. We felt that the content of the records should be completed, as stated. Article 1 says: The competent police authority keeps records of reported cases of domestic violence and of the expression and enforcement of emergency measures against domestic violence. We believe that the content should be complemented in the following words – and on all measures taken in the jurisdiction of the police. What we have in your explanation for the refusal of amendments is that you believe that this would be too wide a content of records, yes, is the intention of the LSV MPs to extend the content of these records precisely because these data that we are asking to be content of the records, thinking specifically about police data, are extremely significant when determining the immediate danger of repeated violence, given that the offenders are something that I would say is a guaranteed phenomenon or almost regular. In this regard, because of those people and officials who will assess the risk, especially from repeated violence, we believe that this content of the record needs to be supplemented. I urge you to consider what we have suggested. The second part of the amendment refers to something that we've already talked about here before my presentation, it's an extension of the duration of the record. I'm talking about the central record, it's supposed to be a five-year bill, we've proposed an extension of 20 years. We just heard from you, and in an explanation and saw that the amendment of counterpart Petar Petrovic was accepted that the central records were kept for 10 years. In the debate in principle, you also called and explained why you handled the five-year deadline, calling for some other laws and recommendations, or the conclusions of the Commissioner for Public Information. That's when you told us that this five-year record-keeping deadline was something that you, based on the credentials' recommendations, estimated it appropriate to be in the bill. We are pleased that some kind of extension has been accepted, even if a colleague from another parliamentary group, we would like to appeal to you that it is not permanent and that at any time when it is possible to extend this deadline to take into account, because 20 years for bullies is also a small deadline for keeping records, since from their adulthood, some manage to stay in the intention of being perpetrators of violence. Take this measure into account for the first time under a regulation and for 10 years to be something that is acceptable, since the correction is still in place. Consider the following, 20 years or something permanently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7169	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7170	Just one precision. The trustee didn't limit us to what time limit we need to provide for keeping records. He said the term was permanently inadmissible and we had to set the deadline ourselves. So he didn't commit us for five years. In the principle debate, I said that we were in charge of the deadlines for eradicating criminal convictions, which were provided for by the Criminal Code, so the deadlines provided for there tried to imitate them, but given the debate we had in the Assembly, we felt that a more acceptable solution was to be made instead of five years. Since we can accept the amendment as a whole, and not in particular, that's one reason why we can't accept your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7171	Thank you. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Velimir Stanojevic and Dubravka Filipovski. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP Branka Stamenković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7172	Thank you. This member, as it has become clear so far, is dealing with records that are separate from police administrations, primary courts, public prosecutors, social service centres, and then all of this data is poured into the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, which is tasked with this member of the law to keep a central record. I have proposed by amendment that the law prescribes that the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office has an obligation to produce once a year a report based on data from this central record, to collect data on how many emergency orders, how many cases of domestic violence, etc. within the framework of the report, it must be on an annual basis that it sends a Council to prevent violence. The council is a coordinating body that needs to take care of the application of this law. How is this body going to take care of the application of this law if there is no information about how it is implemented in practice, whether violence grows or violence decreases? The proposal for an amendment was rejected by the Government with an explanation because it too rigidly prescribes the obligations of the Republic Public Prosecutor. Please, how is she supposed to prescribe it? It's either loose or best not to prescribe it at all. So that we have virtually no data, nor that this Council for the Prevention of Family Violence has any jurisdiction, but that it exists to exist and to meet what the Istanbul Convention requires, but purely on paper without any influence in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7173	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7174	Thank you. Just to be clear. Since the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office keeps a central record, we can't prescribe an obligation for the D.A. to deliver the information to the government's temporary body. What is important is that the Council will certainly be able to seek, but the obligation of the prosecution to the government cannot be established by this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7175	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7176	Just say that you can't establish by law is really not enough. Why can't we establish a law? The law should prescribe obligations to all state authorities in charge of the implementation of this law. There is no reason why the prosecution would have no obligation to prepare this record in the form of a report and to deliver it to the Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7177	Thank you. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Petrovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is made by the People's Messenger Ivan Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7178	Dear Minister, the chairman, Members of Parliament, we consider the amendment 34 that the Council only creates a new type of bureaucracy in the state apparatus...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7179	Wait, that's the next amendment. I'll give you my word. Members Srdjan Nogo, Bosko Obradović, Dragan Vesic, Marija Janjusevic, Ivan Kostic and Zoran Radojčić submitted together to the 34th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7180	Once again, the honourable minister, the chairman, the MPs, we believe that the existence of this council is unnecessary, because another institution is being created within the framework of the state apparatus, and there are already competent institutions to deal with this problem. As a father of three, I am absolutely interested in applying this law in practice. However, I fear that this law will only become a dead letter on paper because the entire system of values that has been promoted over the past 15 years creates an atmosphere that promotes domestic violence. We will, unfortunately, soon be able to see if this law has produced results, whether the number of violent persons has been reduced, and whether these thugs have been implemented through legislative authorities, that they have been subject to a certain penalty. But so far, we have an example that this has not been shown in practice. What this government should do is promote those values and those things that will give people arguments why the family needs to be preserved. You have on the media today, even among members of your parliamentary groups, people who participated in reality shows, where these values were promoted. So I urge both the government and the legislator of this law to invest as much money, resources and energy as possible in promoting, so that we can save the family. I'd like this law to apply. Once again, there is no normal family man who would be against this law, but I am afraid that this law will only have a declarative purpose and that the right solution to the problem will not produce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7181	The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7182	And in this article of the law, we get a new confirmation of the SNS delay in the realisation of key laws in this country. In fact, article 34 says -- the government educates the Council for the Prevention of Family Violence, as if for the past five years there was no opportunity for the government to educate this Council. If this trust of the Serbian Progressive Party took five years to educate a council like this, then how many years will it take you to make any move in preventing domestic violence? Let's just understand one thing. This is the fifth year of your term of office. You can avoid that fact, and I know that it hurts you, because that word, five, already seems a large and ordinary citizen in Serbia, is it – well, are they so in power and have not done anything? That's why it hurts so much when someone says you've been in power for five years. So it's impossible that in five years in power, or in the fifth year of your current term, you couldn't have formed a council at government level to prevent domestic violence. It's simple, it's inexplicable. If that's such a big problem, why wasn't this formed five years ago when you came to power? Or is this not such a big problem? Or have you not noticed for five years that this is such a big problem? So you can't run away from your own responsibility. You have to admit, yes, we didn't figure this out in time. Yeah - we didn't attach the meaning that was needed. Yes - we missed five years to form this council with the government. Yeah, we passed the law with five years late. Yes – Alexander Vukic has been in power for five years, and here we are now passing this law. And everyone would tell me – okay, you admitted once your responsibility and the failures you made, here, it's an honor, it's progress that the Serbian Progressive Party admits that it has made a mistake and made a failure and that it is responsible for something that is harmful.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7183	Thank you. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7184	Thank you, Chairman. Of course, this amendment should be rejected, because the amendment that is so subtle and in which it is written - Article 34. The law was wiped out. It really needed to be designed. It should have been designed in order to discourage the whole of this law, because it is quite clear that the Council for the Prevention of Family Violence is one of the most important factors and elements of the enforceability and implementation of this law and this amendment really doesn't make any sense, except to get two more useless minutes in this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7185	What do you say? We consult. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7186	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Bosko Obradovic has a view of the world of bar singers from the Ibar highway. The D.J.B.'s emissaries are insolent. ) He has learned several floscules, one of them is – the Serbian Progressive Party has been in power for five years, and why in the first year of the Serbian Progressive Party's government, here, yell at those who appear to have performances again, Saša Radulovica, say – why did you not solve all the problems that Serbia faces for 50, 100, 150 and 200 years? Among other things, why haven't you solved the problem of domestic violence in 2012? Family violence in Serbia has been going on for centuries. It's a phenomenon that, after all, is not limited either by time or by state borders. It's a universal social problem in all countries of the world. And now on such an important topic, let's do a little politicizing the whole thing, so let's say -- and why haven't you from the Serbian Progressive Party already contained domestic violence in 2012? If that were possible, then there would be no domestic violence, not in Serbia, it would be nowhere in the world. If it were such a benign phenomenon and so simple, then we wouldn't even be discussing this today, it wouldn't be necessary to pass a bill on preventing domestic violence so that domestic violence can be prevented in a year or six months. There was always talk here about how we from the Serbian Progressive Party don't know anything, how stupid we are, and Marko Parezanovic quoted someone from Dvora this morning who said that people with three teeth in their jaws voted for the Serbian Progressive Party. Mr. Obradich, you are, as far as I can tell, Professor...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7187	MP, you can't replica, you didn't ask for a replica. Please speak according to the amendment, just as Obradovic has spoken according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7188	The subject of the amendment was neither the Serbian Progressive Party, so Bosko Obradovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7189	I know, just don't make a personal address.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7190	Okay, I don't want a personal address. I'm surprised, Mrs. Gojkovic, that someone who is a professor of Serbian language and literature, at least that's how I read that he is, can't accentuate words. It's not said – let's go, let's not say – we fear, we don't say – run away, it's said a little differently. So let the gentleman first learn Serbian language and literature, let him see what is the official language in use in the Republic of Serbia, so that when he learns the official language, he can teach us lessons about both domestic violence and everything else. But it has to get away from that Ibari highway a little bit, the language there by these bars has to be a little corrupt, the official language must be used in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. (Bosko Obradović, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7191	According to the Rules of Procedure, Sasa Radulovic, then you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7192	Thank you, Chairman. Article 107. I think it's really inappropriate for MPs to call bar singers at the Ibaric Master's. So far, we've had a discussion that stuck to the subject. Of course, we can disagree, but the way the Assembly falls into chaos is when, mostly, MP Martinovic starts to insult other MPs, so I would ask you to disable it and stick to the topic. It's okay to have a difference in opinion, it's okay to attack and defend the government's views, but calling other MPs to bar singers from the Ibari highway, it's not okay. I hope we agree on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7193	I agree. I just didn't break up, because I resent interrupting MPs when they make their argument. The MPs of the opposition. No, I don't. No, I'm talking about him. Well, don't throw it away. Really. I'm sick of this. And MP Bosko Obradovic, by argument, had such a trous of brains, etc., which I suppose is very well said. Yes, that's nice, and then when the ruling majority MP starts with a similar dictionary, then we're all very sensitive, so tell me what to do. (Employees are getting out of place. I will, of course, when voters ask. That's right. Then the minority will have a president. It's a rhetorical dilemma, I'm not asking you anything. So the President of Parliament is only here to do what comes to mind. I'll think about it, too. I don't want to punish you. And that. Then they're waiting for me outside the gym and they're begging me to withdraw my sentence, so now you see what it's like to be President of Parliament. You make a decision, it's no good, you don't make a decision, it's no good. They're not honest to say here in the O.R. - Now we've been begging her. And it may not have occurred to anyone to apologize publicly for everything I've experienced on Friday, so maybe I'll do this other apartment. It never occurred to anyone in this room, especially those who wait for me in the halls to beg me to withdraw my sentence, secretly. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7194	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I think you're doing very well at this hour, when you're allowing for the right to replication. And I don't see what's controversial, at the very least, with the bar singers at the Ibaric Master's. There are a large number of people who make a living or do other jobs by singing in cafes, because they can't provide existence on their jobs, and, in that sense, we even have ministers who do singing in cafes, so Mr. Martinovic never resented them, even though he is sitting in government with them. So, the good truth is, these are ministers who only know one song, but good. Anyway, here's another thing that's more important, the more important thing is that, when we catch the SNS in a problem, that it hasn't been dealing with one topic for five years, and let's do it in an extremely cultural way, we say that the SNS brain trust, which in translation says -- the best thinkers' tank and minds that has SNS, I don't see what's offensive about it. The problem is, it took that brain trust five years to come up with advice to prevent domestic violence. Now all of a sudden, when we confront you with this information that your brain trust isn't exactly that big and strong trust, or it's given its maximum, in five years it's come up with, it's the real power of the SNS, it's nothing controversial, it's just that I'm just saying it. So it takes you five years to warm up, to realize that you're not the opposition, that you're the government, to do something, to get out of that political future where you live all the time, that, here, only it's not better in Serbia, so when you come to power, then when you're in power for five years, then when you're in power for 10 years, it'll be even better, it'll be perfect. So we're just pointing out that you've had some pre-election promises and that you haven't fulfilled your pre-election promises and that in this sense you're boasting about right now, you shouldn't brag about it, because you haven't done this job in five years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7195	Thank you. It's been a while. Two minutes off. So we're not going to repeat Friday's situation. We're slowly getting into chaos. Two minutes off, get some rest, and we'll get on with it. Just rest.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7196	We continue to work, ladies and gentlemen. National MP Branko Stamenkovic submitted to the 34th amendment. Do you want a word? The word has the People's MP Branka Stamenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7197	Thank you. This article provides advice to combat domestic violence as a law enforcement body. The member says that the government educates the council, that members of the council are representatives of state authorities and that the council may include representatives of the NGO or other bodies as appropriate. But he does not prescribe how many members that council should have, nor does he prescribe what that advice should do, what obligations it has, within which time limits it needs to have, what its purpose is. If it is to be tried under the Istanbul Convention, it is intended to coordinate the work of these groups for co-ordination to combat the violence that has been set up in the district. Since all this is not precisely defined, my amendment has also proposed the number of members the council should have, one third of which should come from the NGO sector, to be clear. Everything that has been done in the last two and a half decades to prevent violence in our country has been done by the civil sector. They have a huge field experience. I can't understand that any of their amendments have ever been rejected, because they know where there will be a problem in application. So I don't know how this one advice can work without members who know where the problems are. Also, this amendment suggested that this council not be formed by the Government, but by the National Assembly, it means that jurisdiction over this council should be lifted from the Government and transferred to the National Assembly to which the council would then and to account. It is also clear what the obligations of the council are, even at five points. The government rejected this proposal with an explanation – it is better for the government to educate this council, because it needs operational and dynamic power to exercise power. I really don't understand. It's a coordinating body that needs to coordinate, not operate. Operationally on the ground are the co-ordination groups for the control of violence formed by police, district attorney, the Social Labour Centre. They send reports to the council, the council then follows the law, watches where we have better results, where we have worse results, what the law needs to change in order to have even better results in practice, etc. So I don't understand why the idea of a co-ordination body being rejected is defined much clearer and much more concrete than two and a half paragraphs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7198	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Orlic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7199	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It'll be short. So I call for not to be adopted for the reason that this is absolutely unsatisfactory quality, as a proposal, and because of technical mistakes that there are quite a lot, but also because of logical problems which, unfortunately, there are also more. It's just hard to start. Does this proposal mean that this council has a president or a representative, the proposal is absolutely unclear. Further, to play some role as state authorities and associations whose activity is linked to violence. It's not about acts of violence, it's about preventing violence. That's not even the biggest problem. The state authorities and these associations, a total of nine members, on a proposal from the common summary list, nine names, and then it is said that these associations make proposals for a list of two names, and we end up with a total of nine in front of state authorities. It may not be a bad idea to make amendments with more attention, as well as to do all that is done in the National Assembly. This, unfortunately for me, is completely unusable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7200	Thank you. The word is Nela Kuburovic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7201	Thank you. Just one more detail. The work of the Council has not been detailed, since the Government Act is prescribed that the Government can form occasional bodies and based on the government's decision can then be determined by the composition. That is exactly what the Government will do, in line with this proposal, and it is more logical that the motion that the law proposes monitors the effects of the application of the law, so if it sees that there are certain shortcomings, that it responds accordingly, unlike the congregation body, which I do not think has the authority that the Government has, as a legislator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7202	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Sasa Radulovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7203	Thank you, Chairman. I thank Ambassador Orlic, who won't stop insulting the opposition and share some lessons in logic. We really should stop that. Where does the need to share such lessons come from? I really don't understand. It's mostly a sign of weakness. It should stick to themes and comment specifically on what is in the amendment itself, rather than giving lessons to anyone and calling any name.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7204	Please, Radulovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7205	The logic of the amendment exists. Clear things have been suggested. We understand that someone disagrees with that, to give a different opinion, but to preach and lecture on logic, well, we won't accept that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7206	I beg you, Mr. Radulovich, you have come to the amendment, but don't abuse the situation now. Now you're causing unnecessary replication. I really don't see anything that happened. We're not having a discussion. The word is made by the MP Gordana Komic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7207	I'm using the time of the DS parliamentary group. It's not a debate on how to put the advice either insignificant or irrelevant, and because of the history of how we've been building tips, from the Anti-Corruption Council, through the Regional Development Council, the Minority Council, there's a whole list of councils that the government has formed, and that, except in exceptions, there were no real results. That's why I think you should read my colleague Branka Stamenkovic's proposal carefully, because this is somewhat different from what the government of the Republic of Serbia is about. I think our common goal is that however the council is formed, whoever proposes members of the council, whatever his jurisdiction, whether he will have his position in the budget or not, that the common interest is both the National Assembly and the Government that this council is indeed monitoring the application of the law and coordinating among those who are directly applying the law. If we mean that, since the government will form it, that it will indeed work, we are facing a problem in operation, from who, in which way, whether through the Staff Committees or how, the Government, will be appointed to counsel, through who they are actually addressing with objections, shortcomings, what was not progressors or was in the application of the law. So, I think that they are equal ideas, but that we should listen very carefully to the idea offered by the amendment, whether they eventually accept the amendment or not, because it can easily happen, as with some advice, that one year the amendment idea is completely rejected, and that in less than a year the amendments and amendments to the bill that this amendment has included in the members who are changing and supplementing. It would help all of us to stop having a discussion about who's writing the amendment, rather than having a discussion about what's in the amendment. I think we have a rare opportunity for a member of the government to discuss exactly what the amendment says. It doesn't happen to us often, so we have to commend.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7208	Thank you. The word is made by MP Vladimir Orlic, a replica of Radulovic's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7209	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since I promised you it would be brief, I'll give my maximum to do so. On the subject of mentioning me personally and some insults, what the hell, for bringing up logical problems. I mean it. If he insults anyone, I just have to point out, then he should take more care of what he writes and what he suggests here. Now I'm going to explain. In the amendment's proposal, the proposer says -- the council has nine members, and they are determined on the basis of a list of candidates given by state authorities and associations, and then lists nine bodies and associations. So, one common list, and then they say -- the associations propose a list of two proposals. What's that? Already total confusion and major problems, to say after the world – and then to select nine on the proposal of state authorities. Nine in total, nine we suggest, and two we suggest at the same time. Two different sides suggest, in the end only one makes a proposal for all nine. If this isn't a logical problem for someone, then I think it's only a big problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7210	Thank you. (Saša Radulovic, from town: Replica. There's no replica. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: I have to explain. Allow me, I have the right, Chairman, Article 104.) You listen to me. Sit down, please. You have no right to a replica. Thank you very much. Members of the 34th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Velimir Stanojevic and Dubravka Filipovski. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7211	It is a very important work of the Council to combat domestic violence, and in my opinion, this amendment, in Article 34(1), gave a more precise formulation of the work of the Council than the legislator. Why is the work of the Council very important? Because so far, many of the counsel has not fulfilled the role of the one expected of them, because the Council follows the law and coordinates the application of the law. And we have proposed that Article 34(1) is changed and said – the government educates the Council for the Prevention of Family Violence, in the following text of the Council, which monitors the application of this law, improves co-ordination between competent authorities, institutions and other legal and physical persons and associations under Article 6 of this Law, and contributes to more effective prevention of domestic violence and more effective protection against domestic violence. So I'll do it again. I think this proposal more precisely defines the role of the Council for the Prevention of Family Violence as a new body educated by the government. The wording in the integrated text of the bill improves the coordination and effectiveness of preventing domestic violence and protecting against domestic violence, in my opinion it is not quite clear. While the amendment defines the proposed way precisely between which bodies and institutions, as well as parts of civil society, the Council has a role to play to contribute to better coordination, i.e. coordinated action, and all in order to prevent domestic violence. Your argument was that the proposed member of the law was sufficiently precise and broad, which I disagree with.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7212	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Canak, Marinika Tepic, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic jointly submitted to the 34th amendment. The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7213	Thank you, Chairman. For us, it is not a questionable establishment of this Council, and in the first place we see it as an advisory body as the name itself characterises it, and less as a coordination body. Since you've defined here that one of his tasks is to improve coordination, which doesn't mean he's coordinating. So, I think, in that sense, Lexie, we need to recognize the difference, and that's not a question for us. It is clear that it is the government's body and that the government will, as in the last position, determine the composition, way of working and decision-making of the Council, do it closer to the way it is done and when other advice is at stake. However, what is controversial for us, I would ask you to bear that in mind, to reconsider this proposal, which provides that the Council may include, if necessary, representatives of scientific and other professional institutions, associations whose activity is related to the protection against domestic violence. We believe that representatives of representative civil society organisations, or NGOs, must be involved in the Council. Among other things, I think the debate has also pointed out enough that there were no MPs, colleagues, neither from the position nor from the opposition, who did not mention at least the Autonomous Women's Center at one point. It is quite clear that you cannot legally write that it is an Autonomous Women's Center, but there are ways in which you can identify which representative associations, or representative association at least one. These ways exist, are applied when it comes to other areas. Simply, it is delegated by your call to the subject, or call to civil society organisations, who, as their main mission, have the prevention of domestic violence, to propose their representatives, or representatives before that representative association, who can sublime, or collectively represent and represent other associations. Why do we also think that it is important that a representative of the civil society organisation be represented? For the simple reason that you, in Section 2, say that - the Council consists of representatives of state authorities and institutions responsible for the application of this law. Therefore, someone who, under official duty, is certainly applying this law, but we believe that this external factor is someone who is neither a member of the Government nor an employee of the state bodies that will apply this law, yet necessary in continuous communication and co-operation with those who are working in the most direct application of the law to be able to discuss with them and possibly adopt, or participate in the adoption of a proposal to the Government, which as a legislator and someone who is a key executive body for the application of this law, may later, interveningly propose any amendments and additions to the law, why not to the one who, in a few days's worth, will also be adopted with the support of LSV. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7214	Thank you and I apologize, Mrs Tepic, for speaking the wrong name, I beg your pardon. Anyone else want a word? (No) Members of the 35th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Petar Petrovic, and joint MPs Meho Omerovic and Dr Milorad Mijatovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I realize this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has a National MP, Milorad Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7215	Thank you, Chairman. I'll just take a minute. Thank you. We have submitted four amendments to this law, all four amendments have been adopted. It is a sign that if he has a good will and a desire to fix the law, it is possible. I thank Mrs. Minister and the Government of the Republic of Serbia for understanding that the law is better and better. Of course, what we expect, this is its application, and its application is only possible if we go from ourselves, to be better, to be better and what, I'll begin to quote a Latin sentiment – "the ipsum vincerre pulcherima resest" – to beat myself, is the most beautiful thing. That's my message at the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7216	Thank you. Members of the 35th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, and joint MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Enih Imamovic, Natasa Micic, Dr Zarko Korac, Nenad Milic and Bajro Gegic, and joint MPs Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojic, Maja Vidinović, Balša Božović, Gordana Komic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Jesic, Dejan Nikolic, Veroljub Stevanović, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic and Tomislav Žigmanov. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I realize this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7217	Thank you. We are pleased that you have accepted the amendment to amend Article 35 of Section 1 and it is said that the sentence of prison by 60 days will be punished by the person who violates the emergency measure that has been imposed on him. I thank you for the amendment that has been accepted, and I hope that the Minister will answer whether it is true that experience shows that exactly the procedures with the elements of family violence are exactly the cases that are most outdated in court proceedings. We hope that's not the case, but we've received such information. It's really scary if that's the case. It's not a problem just to adopt amendments and pass this law. Thank you for this amendment you adopted. This law is good, of course. Yeah, if he could've brought it sooner. Yeah, he could have. Should we now enter the controversy of whether DS could have brought it in 2008. Yeah, she could have. Is SNS radical then in 1999? Yeah, she could have. But it is important that this law be passed and that we save at least one female or male person because they are often men victims of violence. The most important thing is that this law is respected, that not only be a dead letter on paper like the other laws that have been passed, a dead letter on paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7218	The word has Minister Nela Kuburovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7219	Thank you. It is true that we have problems when it comes to the age of certain crimes, but I have already given statistics several times when it comes to domestic violence. In this case, we have no problem with obsolescence, but we have a problem with the mild criminal policy of the courts. It is true that the factors are condemned, but conditional sentences are imposed, prison sentences in a very small number of cases, even where prison sentences are imposed, the prison will be sentenced for up to six months, although the Code of Criminal Procedure provides for stricter sentences. So just to be precise, there's no question here of aging criminal prosecution, but of a mild criminal policy of the courts.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7220	Thank you. According to the amendment, the word has been made by MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7221	It's a good thing this amendment was adopted. But I think we have introduced a bad practice for MPs to thank the government for accepting our amendments. On the contrary, in the eyes of the minister, I see gratitude to us who have given such a good amendment that has corrected the law and the government has found that by adopting it. The measures provided for in this article, following an amendment adopted, will help us protect that poor Serb from that bully who has been harassing her for four years.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7222	Thank you. National MPs Nenad Canak, Marinika Tepic, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazić and joint MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 35th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7223	Just to train our name, thank you again for the given word, Chairman. However, I will continue with that practice that I have been talking about today about amendments, to thank first of all for the careful listening by the minister and to note that one of the new ministers in the government, who has actively participated in the discussion, unlike some of my predecessors who are at ministerial office for the first time and here, I would like to say it publicly, and with full attention, I would say, not only because some LSV amendments have been adopted, but because I have simply noticed that there is a positive attitude towards thinking and those amendments, or the amendments that have been rejected, but with some at least gesticular indications that they are justified and that, hopefully in some latter time, when there is also intervention in the laws, they will find their place in the original draft law of the competent ministry. This amendment to Article 35 has been accepted, as well as how much I could spot all colleagues who had an intervention on Article 35, no matter how the amendment reads, whether it goes this way to the point, or if after the score is deleted, but it is essentially the same, which is that we have managed to preserve both the criminal act, the violation of the measures against domestic violence under the Family Law, because somehow in the principle of the debate, we all reacted to this criminal act, regardless of the slow court practice and the failure of the desired results of these criminal provisions, however, should not be eliminated as a criminal act and left in circulation, because it cannot harm. After all, he can only use it, but he certainly can't hurt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7224	The word has the People's MP Miroslav Aleksic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7225	Thank you, Chairman. The SDS and People's Movement Group of Serbia has tabled an amendment to Article 35, and that amendment has been adopted, which is a pleasure to us and means that someone is actually reading and devoting himself to these amendments that we have submitted, regardless of what they come from the opposition. Also, like my colleague, Marinika, I welcome the Minister's commitment to correcting at least a little common law, or a bill that is before us. As for the member himself, therefore, we have proposed to delete in the position of part one behind the word "extended", so - by sentence of prison for up to 60 days, it will be punished for a violation of a person who violates an emergency measure that has been imposed on him or has been extended. Therefore, the proposal for this law, given that it is a violation, counter-measures against the protection of domestic violence being sanctioned as an offence, unlike the previous legal solution, a solution to which such an act is classified, or incriminate, as a criminal offence. We believe that this existing solution is better than to treat it as a violation, first of all, for better protection of victims of domestic violence, but also that such a provision would also have a better deterring effect on those who have committed or committed violence. So, in the framework of the amendment to the law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Code, we propose to retain the existing criminal act in this area, and we believe that such acts should be treated as criminal acts, not as offences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7226	Thank you. National MP Gorica Gajic submitted to the 35th amendment. The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7227	Thank you. Here we are at the end of the bill, with article 35 and criminal provisions. Right away, I would like to join in supporting the change in the position of the first member of the law, where the measure of protection against domestic violence has been deleted from this article, so that only for an urgent measure has been left this violation application, and the measures against domestic violence remain punishable under the Criminal Code, Article 194 of point 5. The position of the 2nd member also provides for a fine of 50 to 150 000 dinars for a responsible person in competent institutions and institutions that do not report violence. But since we've been mostly talking these days and talking about preventing domestic violence, it's mostly the uncoordinated activity of the competent institutions, and it's mostly all been the police's fault, the prosecution, the social work center, and I and the DSS here have proposed an amendment to provide for them, too, some criminal provision. If we already want to mark them guilty, let's not just let them call for their professionalism, but rather determine that they can also be fined if they do not comply with the measures in this law, if they do not, for example, complete special training, if they do not name the composition, or their members in the coordination and co-operation group, if they do not express an emergency measure, and have an indication that they need to give an emergency measure, to make it clear that both the competent employees and the responsible in these institutions should be subject to criminal measures.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7228	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7229	Thank you. Just to point out that this article is complemented by the introduction of disciplinary responsibility when it comes to deputy public prosecutors and judges, since we cannot fine them in a misdemeanour procedure whether they have acted or not. The amendment has been adopted so that it is provided that, if public prosecutors and judges do not comply with these provisions of the law, it is a serious disciplinary offence and will, in accordance with the provisions governed by the Law on Judges and the Law on Public Prosecutors, be conducted in a disciplinary manner against them.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7230	Thank you. Mrs. Gorica, there is no basis for replication. Member of the 35th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is by MP Dusan Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7231	I'm glad, Chairman, that you can see the basis for my reporting, for giving me your word, very generous of you. I just wanted to say briefly, in this article of 35, it was meant to be fined by persons who did not report domestic violence. I added, let me say, two special forms, unless it responds to the application or if someone obstructs the full process of reporting, it is also subject to these fines, so we have all the situations covered to prevent any obstruction in the reporting of domestic violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7232	Thank you. National MP Branko Stamenkovic submitted to the 35th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted to Article 35 by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7233	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, I understand that I have accepted part of the argument relating to the amendment submitted by the SPS parliamentary group, with the need to point to a special motive for the submission of such an amendment, which is that no one is to be apportioned in the whole process, in the whole process of all participants who are directly applying the provisions of this law. Given that public prosecutors and judges cannot be subject to punishment in terms of the provisions of this law, given the disciplinary responsibility which is regulated by other regulations, or laws, there remains to be thought about what is wrong with police officers in police administrations who do not apply this law. We're coming to the next stage of thinking. One, to apply the provisions of the Police Act directly. Why? Because there is a disciplinary responsibility in the provisions of the Police Act regarding police officers. It's not a dispute. However, this amendment, at least according to one of my beliefs, does not interfere with the provisions of the Police Act, but requires special responsibility as an increased responsibility for all work gaps arising from the work of police officers. What does that mean? It means that if a police officer commits a crime, it is not disputed that he will be prosecuted for a criminal offence, for a crime of abuse of his official position, or for some other criminal act that incriminalises, or that can be committed under incrimination that binds himself to that police officer. Given that the Criminal Code is not applicable here, and that we are looking for an increased degree of protection for victims against violence where no one can make a failure, because then we are bringing the victim of violence into an even more difficult position than it is, then my motive and motive for my colleagues in the SPS parliamentary group was to impose a criminal measure through the increased level of responsibility of police officers, or a provision that binds them to their fines. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7234	Thank you. The amendments, in the same text, adding a new member after Article 35, and a member of 35, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, a group of DS MPs and a group of LDP MPs. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7235	Thank you very much. We heard earlier from the minister that there is a disciplinary responsibility for responsible persons who are not doing their job properly, but in an explanation for the refusal of the amendment, which means Article 35a, which says - he will be considered to have committed a serious breach of the labour obligation which does not comply with the provisions of this law, etc. The explanation is very interesting and I'm very interested in who wrote it, that very explanation. It seems to me that the heir who harassed that poor Serbian woman wrote it. It says – the amendment is not accepted first because the state authorities do not have rules on work. Dot. What argument? Then the second, then, comma, which is, for example, impossible to conduct proceedings against a judge or a public prosecutor for violating a rule on work that does not exist. Well, it's a genius. So, first it's impossible because it doesn't exist, yet it's impossible because it doesn't exist again. Well, let's move on. Not to talk about printing mistakes, but the point is, and that's why we're doing well to get our head hurt and that we're sick of it, he says - calling for a violation of the law creates legal uncertainty and exposes the practice at risk of incorrect application of the law, and before that it says that a major violation of the labour obligation is an essential feature, it is a principle of legality, which means that it must be explicitly foreseen by a certain regulation, so we suggest it. What's the point? The point is this wasn't written by a normal man, I'm sorry. If proven otherwise, I'm ready to apologize.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7236	Don't, don't, Zivkovic, come on...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7237	On the other hand, explain to me why you don't accept the possibility of someone who doesn't do his job being punished?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7238	Time, Mr. Zivkovic. The amendment, which was added by member 35a, with correction, was submitted by MP Gorica Gajic. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Krsto Janjusevic, following an amendment to Article 35, which is added by Article 35a.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7239	The Honorable Chairman, with mostly clear explanations to the previous speaker, has managed to use much more sentences by insulting those who wrote this explanation than there is a sentence...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7240	We've moved on to Amendment 35a.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7241	Please, one second, I have to, because it was here...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7242	You can't. We've moved on to Article 35. (Brother Janjušević, from the place: That's what I'm talking about. ) On the title above the article 36a and Article 36a of the amendment was submitted by MP Zvonimir Stević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) (Krist Janjušević, from the place: There were very offensive exhibitions here. Please sign up to talk to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7243	I am speaking, the chairman, you did not notice that I responded to Mr. Zivkovic's amendment, but you immediately gave the word to Mrs. Gajic. You didn't notice. I have asked you to address this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7244	You weren't here on the list.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7245	I signed up. I reacted to your colleagues. Please, it's very important.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7246	You have no reason... We're having a really unnecessary discussion about something that doesn't matter that much right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7247	It was unnecessary to allow the insult of those who wrote the explanation. Please, let me explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7248	I've already read... Sit down, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7249	Infringement of Rules of Procedure 107.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7250	By the time I'm done with article 36.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7251	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7252	Here you go. Sign up.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7253	Infringement of Rules of Procedure 107. The speaker at the meeting of the National Assembly is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. So, as I said earlier, the previous speaker has made a series of very serious accusations, Mr. Chairman... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7254	When you advertised the breach of the Rules of Procedure, you must convince me of what I am injuring the Rules of Procedure... (Krto Janjušević, from the place: You allowed insults. That's one sentence, and that's that, and now you want to lead the line with him. He can't. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure in anything. He did, I even warned him about a word he said was wrong. Don't talk about it now. Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7255	Dear Chairman, I'm advocating Article 108. - the order of the session is the old chairman, which is in this case you. I hope you'll give a warning to the previous speaker who first responded to the amendment, and then he wanted a replica, so he eventually advertised the Rules of Procedure. It's an abuse of you and your place, so I hope you'll give him a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7256	I ask all MPs that when you advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you must convince me, as chairman, of which I have sinned, and not of what the messenger has sinned. (Radoslav Milojičić, from the place: You did not give him a warning. That's what you're telling me, not the messenger. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. ) There is no replica on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: He mentioned me by name and last name. ) Therefore, please, in the future, I believe that there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. The only thing I can ask you is do you want us to come forward in the voting day? Yeah. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: I should have... No, no, I didn't hear. Members of the 36th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Velimir Stanojevic and Dubravka Filipovski. Does anyone want a word? The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7257	I thank the chairman. Dear Mrs Kuburovic, we are at the end of the debate on the proposed law on preventing domestic violence and this is an entirely technical amendment in which we propose that the word "day" be added after the word "will be brought" within three months. This means a purely technical amendment and a trade law category that you and your associates know very well. I received an answer in the explanation that without the word "day" this provision is very clearly formulated. My question is for you, then – why is the other provisions specify the law and state the word “day”? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7258	Thank you. The 36th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The amendments in the same text were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Marinika Tepic, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazić and joint MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7259	I thank the chairman. As a parliamentary group of the Social Democratic Party of the People's Movement of Serbia, we have proposed that a new member of 37a be introduced behind Article 37a concerning the provision of free legal assistance to the adoption of a special law on free legal aid. Therefore, the amendment is that, until the adoption of a special law on free legal aid, free legal assistance to victims of domestic violence and the victim of a criminal offence under this law is provided by a lawyer. The national authorities and institutions responsible for the application of this law under Article 6 of this Act shall, at the request of the victim of domestic violence, or the victim of a criminal offence under this law, designate a lawyer who provides free legal assistance in accordance with the list of the bar responsible for the place of residence, or residence of the victim. The funds for providing free legal assistance under Article 1 shall be provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia. This amendment has been rejected by reason that the government does not accept the amendment for reasons which prejudges the content of the law. In addition, free legal aid today is provided not only by lawyers, but by associations and other forms of civil society organisation. That's exactly why we've made it clear that the lawyers on the list and order of the bar in charge of the place of residence, so that the victims of domestic violence can turn to them. Therefore, it is proposed to standardise a transitional solution with regard to providing free legal assistance. Since a special law on free legal aid has not been passed, this right of the victim is fully unthinkable, thus making it impossible to protect the state effectively. For this reason, I ask you to reconsider the proposal of this amendment and put it into the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7260	The word has Minister Nela Kuburovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7261	Thank you. Just one precision, the amendment is not accepted for reasons because the constitutional provision is also limited where free legal assistance is provided by lawyers and local self-government. This amendment limits local self-government to providing free legal assistance, and on the other hand, you prescribe rules on free legal assistance that should be subject to a special law, and it is possible that it will be in complete contrast with what will be applied in accordance with the law that should soon be found in the congregation procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7262	Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I'm setting a five-minute break until further notice.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7263	We're going back to work. You have received amendments submitted to the Bill of Amendments and Supplements of the Criminal Code by the MPs Velimir Stanojević, Dubravka Filipovski, Petar Petrović, Zoran Zivković, Dusan Pavlovic, Vjerica Radeta, Petar Jojic, Zoran Krasić, Sreto Perić, Milorad Mirčić, Dr Ana Stevanovic, Tatjana Macura, Aleksandra Čabraja, LJupka Mihajlovska, Nenad Canak, Marinika Tepić, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazić, Dr Milorad Mijatović, Meko Omerović, Stefana Miladinović, Snježana Paunović, Čedomir Jovanovic, Enis Žamović, Natas Mić, Dr Žarko Korać, Nenad Milić, Bajro Gegić, Srđan Margić, Božana Obradović, Dr Dragan Vjeljić, Žaljan Vrstić, Marija Žaljan Žalić, Marijanović, Mirović, Marija Žaljan Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić Žalić, Miroić, Miroić, Miroić, Mirožić, Mirožić You have received the Report of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. Members of Parliament Srdjan Nogo, Bosko Obradović, Dr Dragan Vesovic, Marija Janjušević, Mr Ivan Kostic and Zoran Radojić together submitted to the 2nd amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic together submitted the 2nd amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7264	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we have proposed one amendment in Article 18(3) because we believe that the court, or the prosecution, when rejecting criminal charges and deciding whether to prosecute for a certain criminal act, that the prosecutor must be as limited as possible. So, with this change you're proposing, you've given the DA the possibility of a huge, too wide-ranging authority to dismiss any criminal charges without the need to determine what the exception is, which is whether there's a facilitating circumstance or not. When the current solution said that the degree of guilt should be found to be low, it meant that the prosecutor must establish that there are some extenuating circumstances in the execution of the crime. Now he doesn't have to determine it anymore. You say – it should assess practically that the degree of guilt is not high. This is to determine one negative fact, which is otherwise a legal nonsens to determine the negative facts. That's what anyone who deals with the law knows. The bottom line is that for serious crimes, such as abuse of a responsible person, which we've lashed about and we'll still be lenient today, and for many other prosecutors, it can dismiss criminal charges and it doesn't come to court at all without the need to determine that exception. It was an earlier exception to the rules, and you're now allowing prosecutors not to pursue unless they want to prosecute and that's their discretionary authority. In principle, it doesn't come to the judge, and you are, in reason, referring to court practice. It doesn't matter that much court practice because it's the prosecutor who's using this member not to prosecute, if he won't prosecute. It seems to me that prosecutors will be able to decide on a warrant to pursue someone and not pursue someone without very clear and strict rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7265	Thank you. The word has Minister Nela Kuburovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7266	Thank you. The example of the crime you cited cannot even be applied given that we have changed, so instead of five years, as planned, the application of this institute has now been changed and put – up to three years for a crime. So you'd better give another example than this one. The amendment to this article of the Law was due to problems in court practice and was hardly applicable. (Nenad Konstantinovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7267	Based on what replica, Mr. Konstantinovic? Here's to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7268	First of all, with regard to abuse of the position of responsible person, it is said that the responsible person, etc., will be sentenced by three months to three years in prison. So it can be applied to this crime, you've made a mistake obviously. That's for all the crimes up to three years. You cannot give an explanation – because in practice there were problems. What were the problems in practice? You didn't explain what the problems were in practice. You can't reject the amendment because you have the impression that in practice there was a problem in determining extenuating circumstances for a low degree of guilt. There were no problems in practice, and there are no problems today. Will there be problems in practice to determine that the degree is not high? There may be problems in practice again. What gives you the right to believe that this will not be a problem in practice, and this will be? You had no argument why you rejected this amendment and then you wrote – in practice there were problems. There was no problem. The point is, the D.A. shouldn't have the opportunity to throw away whatever comes to his mind. He can reject criminal charges only for a crime that he finds the degree of danger to be low, or that there are particularly extenuating circumstances, and not that he rejects what he thinks he is, or someone called him on the phone – so don't go after him, and he can go after someone else. That's what we want to stop.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7269	Right to replication, Minister Nela Kuburovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7270	The amendment talks about the degree of guilt, not the degree of danger, so I think we should be precise when we speak in this article. One more thing, this isn't about extenuating circumstances. When we have an extenuating circumstance, criminal responsibility already exists. It's here to determine whether there's a crime at all or not. Thus, the work of little importance does not fall within those provisions relating to the expedient environment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7271	Again, according to the amendment, MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7272	My colleague, we obviously don't understand each other or you don't understand this. In order to establish that the degree of guilt is low, some reasons are needed. The reason that the degree of guilt is low is that this crime was committed for example. out of trouble and there are some extenuating circumstances and it's written in theory. I'll send you the papers of the law professors who studied it, the subject. What does it mean – the degree of guilt is not high? How does it determine that the degree of guilt is not high? How is this negative fact determined? The earlier solution meant that you had to find that it was a low degree of guilt and then you could call it a small act of little importance and not pursue it. And that's the exception. As a rule, he's being prosecuted and the prosecutor has to prosecute for a certain crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7273	The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7274	Thank you. I'd just like to underline this argument one more time. So it's very inaccurately defined and there's a danger of abuse. The negative fact introduced into the law is not a good solution. You said this institute was weak. I can understand that, although there's not enough information about it, but this is not how this problem is solved. Much more confusion has been introduced and a great freedom of interpretation where it can give up prosecution in cases where it really shouldn't happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7275	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Jesic, Dejan Nikolic, Veroljub Stevanović, Dusan Petrovic and Tomislav Žigmanov submitted the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7276	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in an explanation of why the amendment is being rejected – the amendment is not accepted for the reason that it is necessary to specify Article 46(1) in the manner proposed in Article 3. It's a bill of law. You reject the amendment because you think that something has to be the way you wrote it. I'm telling you that you've misread it and that you haven't given any explanation again why you're rejecting it, but you're so out of your mind and you don't have any argument about it. In Article 46 of the basic law, you have, to which your amendment applies and to which my amendment applies, practical repetition and in this repetition that is absolutely unnecessary, you say that there should be a circumstance to allow someone to go on parole that indicates that the convicted during the probation will not commit a new offence. In the preceding sentence, Article 1 has already been written, and that is – especially until the end of the time for which the sentence imposed does not commit a new crime. So it's already contained in the previous sentence. You repeat that twice. Essentially, you end it so that someone can be released on parole if the purpose of punishment is achieved in relation to him. It's the current solution. So someone can get parole, so it doesn't have to be until the end of the sentence if the purpose of punishment is fulfilled in relation to him. I guess the point is why someone is being set a prison sentence and the purpose of punishment being fulfilled. I don't think this has any reason to change and that you could adopt the amendment, but simply because the amendment was submitted by the opposition, you don't want to adopt it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7277	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Canak, Marinika Tepic, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic and joint MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Enis Imamovic, Natasa Mićic, Dr Zarko Korać, Nenad Milic and Bajro Gegić and joint MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 6th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7278	Thank you, Chairman. With the new intervention of the legislator of this law, you are practically ablibrating returnees who violate certain security measures at sports events, which are otherwise still recognised as bearers of hooliganism and violence. I'm not familiar with any more detailed information at this point, and I prayed that, if possible, we would be given concrete information in the course of the debate on the basis of which this proposal came before us. More specifically, by proposing, therefore, the Ministry, or the Government, is foreseen to delete the former criminal offence that is being committed – If, after a suspended sentence, the perpetrator violates the ban on attending certain sports events, or if he does not perform the duties set out in Article 2, the court which has imposed a measure under Article 1 may punish him by imprisonment from 30 days to three months. Your suggestion is to delete this. In your explanation, you stated that the Criminal Code states that it is Article 30. Proposal for a Code of Criminal Code complemented by a new criminal act – a violation of a security-based ban under which a person who violates a prohibition established by a security measure is fined by a fine or by a prison of up to six months. As an example, I cited a plastic simulation of a potential event, i.e. the question – how do you expect, for example, the judge objectively judges the hooligans when 20 or 30 of them appear in the courtroom and will the judge really give the least punishment, in this case, the monetary one, as you predict, and practically upgrade from the previously established only prison sentences returned to hooliganism? We believe that, regardless of the introduction of a new crime, it is more appropriate for the returnees to remain a criminal offence, i.e. hooligans who violate the previously imposed measures and that, however, the judges in optics remain the sentences for them exclusively within a different range, rather than that they are abolised and that they are actually set up by a much easier, or a fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7279	Thank you. The word has Minister Nela Kuburovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7280	The criminal code provides, if I am not mistaken, 11 security measures – mandatory psychiatric treatment and storage in a medical institution, mandatory drug treatment, mandatory treatment of alcoholics, ban on making calls, action and association, ban on driving a motor vehicle, confiscation of objects, banning foreigners from the country, public publication of convictions, banning access and communication with damaged, banning the presence of certain sports events. The applicable code is only for violation of one measure of security, which was the presence of certain sports events, provided for the possibility of punishment, and provided for it so that the judge had the opportunity to punish, and it was not an obligation, if there was a breach of that obligation, to sentence the prison or not. Now, by introducing a new criminal offence, we foresee punishment not only for violating and banning the presence of certain sports events, but also for violating all the security measures prescribed by the Criminal Code, and I am sure that judges will appreciate the weight of the security measure that has been violated or not, but should also be given the possibility and more severe punishment than has been provided for so far, given that sentenceing up to three months is now possible for the prison to be imposed up to six months.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7281	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Jesic, Dejan Nikolic, Veroljub Stevanović, Dusan Petrovic and Tomislav Žigmanov together submitted to the 7th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Zoran Zivkovic submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 7th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7282	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the explanation of why my amendment is being rejected is that the Criminal Code uses the term – the subject of business rather than the term – economic operators, which is why the amendment has been rejected. I don't think the bill promoter, the Ministry, has entered into the essence of this amendment at all, and the bottom line is that in the economy, certain crimes from the economy can be committed by economic operators. And the point is, not everyone else who isn't an economic operator can commit these crimes. One of these entities, which are not economic operators, are also lawyers. There are certain crimes that apply to lawyers, and now the question arises – if you have placed lawyers in business entities and under the influence of these crimes in the economy, how will you apply the law? Because you can also pursue someone for abuse of trust, and you can pursue someone for abuse of trust in the economy. I don't know if you've thought about it. I see my colleague Cosic's head is spinning. Article 216 — Abuse of trust says: “Who is representing in the name of a person or... abuses given him authority in order to obtain the property benefit of himself or another," he says: “If the work of 1-3 of this member is done by an old man or a lawyer.” So the abuse of trust applies to all citizens, so it does, for example, to a lawyer. And you're now instituting the abuse of trust in the economy, so now you can prosecute a lawyer for that crime, even though they're not economic operators and do not carry out economic activity, they're doing their legal work. That's why I've submitted this amendment and it's not just about lawyers, it's about other people in this country. I don't think you saw when you rejected the essence of the amendment, but you're dealing with the terminology of whether they're economic operators or economic operators.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7283	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) The MPs Srdjan Nogo, Bosko Obradović, Dr Dragan Vesovic, Marija Janjusevic, Mr Ivan Kostic and Zoran Radojić together submitted to the 7th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7284	Dear Chairman, Madam Minister, we wanted these amendments to actually specify the two things that have been defined here. The first one's a business secret, and the second one's full of harassment. We have offered precise formulations, which read as follows: "The business secret is considered to be data and documents which by law, by other regulation or decision of the competent authority, adopted under the law, declared as a business secret, whose giving would cause or could cause adverse consequences for the business operator". And that, or precision, too, is full of harassment: “Full harassment is every verbal, non-verbal, or physical behavior that is intended for purpose or constitutes a violation of the dignity of the person in the sphere of full life, which causes fear or creates an hostile, humiliating or offensive environment. ” So we wanted both of these things to be precise and we think that would be the quality of these provisions.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7285	The word has Minister Nela Kuburovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7286	Thank you. The term "business secret" and "full harassment" are mentioned only once in the law within the framework of a criminal act that regulates it, so that there was no need to find itself in Article 112, where the concepts that go through the entire code are mentioned and exactly the normative technique is such that there is no repetition and explanation of what it refers to. That's why your amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7287	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Petar Jojic and Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7288	The acceptance of any international obligations by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, then the National Assembly through ratification, leads to absurd situations such as this new criminal act – the mutilation of the female sex organ. It's just amazing, no matter what you say you accepted it as a commitment from the Istanbul Convention, but it's amazing that someone thought this crime was a criminal offence in our Criminal Code. In this way, you seem to want to encourage someone to do something like this, and if you ask the citizens of Serbia the question is how many people, and the vast majority is certainly concerned, and they don't know that this is what is done as a cultural and religious practice in some countries in Africa. So this crime simply is not appropriate to our culture, nor to our customs, nor is it known that something similar happened in practice at one time, and when, eventually, it could certainly be processed under the existing Criminal Code. As soon as you've entered this crime and this is your fault, you'll find a prison sentence if you mutilate the outer parts of the female sex organ, they'll be punished by a prison of one to eight years. What is this range for one crime from one to eight years, and if there are particularly extenuating circumstances, then the punishment is from three months to three years? So you obviously only did this because you accepted that obligation, and it's not good for you to accept everything you're offered. You have to take care of what country we live in, which state and for which people we make laws and this member. That's why we suggested erasing it. It's absolutely unnecessary. Once again we call you, Mrs. Kuburović, organize a team, do a good text of the Criminal Code, codify criminal legislation, bring here that as serious people, politicians, lawyers, discuss, determine and pass a law that will apply at least for a number of years without frequent changes and additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7289	The word has Minister Nela Kuburovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7290	Thank you. It is true that you have said that we have accepted the obligation of the Istanbul Convention and these are provisions on which no reserves have been placed, so we have been obliged to include this criminal act in our legislation. It is also true that the phenomenon of female sex organ mutilation is something characteristic of African countries and certain countries of the Middle East, but it is also true that a large number of European countries have prescribed this same criminal act, precisely for the reasons of a large number of immigrants who have transferred that practice to the European continent. We're not the first to introduce this crime. Some European countries have even prescribed this as a crime in the 1980s. On the other hand, we cannot overlook that there are a large number of migrants on the territory of the Republic of Serbia that are just coming from the territory of these countries where this religious cult is being carried out. (Veriza Radeta, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7291	My colleagues, you have no basis for replication, indeed. I do, but if you can't... The minister only confirmed what you said, and attitudes differ. Anyone else want a word? (No) The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Dusan Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7292	Thank you. So it's about this member who's involved in the mutilation of the sex organ. I suggested that the word "female" be excluded. The proposal is to regulate only the mutilation of the female sex organ. I suggested that the word “female ” be deleted because the subject of genital mutilation can be equal to a female and male full organ. There's no reason, at least that's how it seemed to me when I read this, that there was discrimination between two types of sex organs. In response, the Ministry gave an interesting explanation, which is why this amendment of mine is being rejected. So it says this - the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the regulation of the offence of the mutilation of the female sex authority represents the fulfillment of the international obligation of the offence provided for by the draft law in accordance with Article 38. Istanbul Conventions. Then I looked at the Istanbul Convention, that Article 38. Indeed, there is a reference to female genital mutation, or mutilation of the female sex organ. Then I ask myself: is what I have suggested, as far as men and women are concerned, really contrary to what is set out in Article 38 of the Convention? If I understand correctly what I have suggested, my proposal is more general than what is in Article 38 of the Convention and should, by the logic of the matter, cover what is in Article 38 of the Convention. So when you say that genital mutation is banned in total for any kind of sex organ, it covers, of course, a female full organ. I think what I suggested, i.e. My amendment, it's not the opposite, it's that it includes both. I'd like you to reconsider this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7293	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Canak, Marinika Tepic, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic jointly submitted to the 8th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7294	Thank you, Chairman. And we welcome the Ministry's mood to recognize this crime as new, by us proposing both a new title and new provisions, I believe, more precisely than they are in the current ministry solution. First of all, we suggest that this crime be called "genital mutilation of women". We think it's a more appropriate name and a simple universal name for all the mutations of this guy. Another explanation, although not on this amendment that we have heard, is that, you mentioned migrants moving through our country, since this phenomenon is typical of mainly and predominantly African continents, however, we cannot exclude the fact that other living circumstances can also bring people from other continents who practice such ritual ritual rituals, according to us, which deeply affect and violate rights, especially small girls from four to eight years of age, when mostly these amazing interventions against women's bodies are being conducted, so we think it's just a partial explanation that due to these migrant phenomena lately, this is the basis for recognising this criminal act. What we have tried is that not only the act of mutilation is incriminating, but also trying, or helping in this part, just as the Criminal Law predicts that the crime and co-operation, or assistance, is in an unauthorized pregnancy. We feel that this is the same fault, so we ask that a new attitude be introduced, or our member complete, who says in the first position: “If a woman is genetically maimed or tried, or helped to be genetically mutilated, she will be punished by a prison of one to eight years. “ The following attitude that we foresee is: “If the work of the first member is done according to a minor female or there has been a serious health disorder or has been done toward more than one person, the perpetrator will be punished by a prison of three to twelve years. “ The third attitude: “If the death of a female person has occurred as a result of the work described in Article 1 of this article, the perpetrator will be punished by a prison of two to twelve years. “ In an explanation that I must say, we are not satisfied, or we do not find it justified, is that the legislator considers that there are particularly extenuating circumstances under which this crime can be carried out. You didn't convince us that it was because maiming, especially girls, between the ages of four and eight, when you genetically mutilate, in fact, still little girls, even women, can't be except for a clear intention to commit this crime. In our view, there is not a single expedient circumstance that would abolize the perpetrator or co-executor in this criminal act, and we urge you to take one more thought into consideration. We believe in serious arguments in the context of this amendment and you influence that the bill itself recognises as an integral part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7295	The word has a minister, Nela Kuburovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7296	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted for reasons because, when it comes to the attempted execution of a criminal offence, the general provisions of the Criminal Code and Article 30 are applied. Since the conditions have been met that it can be applied, given the range of penalties prescribed and, on the other hand, given the way in which this crime and the practice that has been established, it is precisely referring to girls from 14 to 10 years of age. And, another thing we couldn't accept the amendment is the kind of punishment you prescribed – if it's done to a minor, since it's absolutely the same almost range, and when death comes, so we don't think it can be the same punishment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7297	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Lapčević. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 8th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojic, Gordana Komic and Vesna Marjanovic together submitted to the 8th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Srdjan Nogo, Bosko Obradović, Dr Dragan Vesovic, Marija Janušević, Mr Ivan Kostic and Zoran Radojić together submitted the 8th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7298	The Honorable Chairman, fellow MPs, from this whole discussion, I only understood that under the Istanbul Convention the mutilation of the male sex organ was allowed. I mean, that's how I understood my colleague Pavlovic's discussion. But what is much more important here than this little joke of ours, is that if I understand the minister well, and she is here most invited to interpret certain legal solutions, this is the first case that Serbian legislation is adapted to migrant legislation. So Serbia is starting to adapt in advance to the changes in the structure of our population brought by migrants, or by migrants, to Europe. We now have to follow the Istanbul Convention, we have to adapt to religious what – cults, rituals, ideas that migrants bring as religious specificities in our midst. Is this the beginning of a serious legislative initiative by the government of the Republic of Serbia, led by Alexander Vukic, towards meeting the different needs of migrants who are supposed to settle here, when the EU completely closes its borders and makes Serbia the largest asylum centre in Europe. So, that's the idea of Serbian legislation, that we adapt to migrant crises, imposed population villages that are being imposed on us from the United States, changing the structure of the population of Europe, imposing religious cults from Africa, Asia, or I don't know where, and that now we need to adapt our legislation to the migrant issue. I think that really here SNS, unlike fighting domestic violence, is a visionary political party and she's not here five years late, she's going five years ahead. She wants to settle the laws before the migrants completely settle Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7299	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7300	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Two things. First, I call for it not to be accepted because we are talking about serious things and the really difficult work, and the amendment's proposing that its amendment be reduced, but that's not what he said. He talked about everything but his own proposal. So, first off, second off, third off, I don't know what to say. Enough to conclude that it's not accepted for the reason it says what. Another thing, anything that sounds like an explanation, and I'm going to have to comment because we're discussing arguments both written and oral. Absolutely nothing to do with anything. It's very inappropriate, let's say, on this issue, just as it was inappropriate and in that previous law to make stories, who's going to protect someone from Serbia or Europe from the migrant crisis, a terrible factor, like the man who spoke earlier. And behind empty words is usually what? Probably some extra void. It seems to me that every time I hear it, we'll joke a little bit, we've already made a joke today, right, I remember another popular program in which there was a famous sentence, which our old people would say – better to know a lot and often, than not to know anything, sometimes never to go anywhere. Whenever I hear the amendment promoter, it comes to me, I really don't know why.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7301	Right to the replica, MP Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7302	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Orlic, he's been trying to be funny all day but we can't smile.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7303	And so do you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7304	I was very serious about one of the most serious topics of modern Europe that the whole of Europe is talking about today except the Government of the Republic of Serbia, except for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which is the theme of the migrant crisis and the consequence of the migrant crisis in Europe. The President of the Assembly has therefore refused for two months to put a special session on the topic of the current migration crisis and, particularly, we have had a joint session with the Government of the Republic of Hungary which has a completely different view on this matter and of which we could learn a lot about how to protect our own citizens from the consequences of the migrant crisis. Because, today, or yesterday, we had one such case in downtown Belgrade, at the Green Venec where there was a shootout between a group of migrants with the most terrible consequences, where one of the migrants succumbed to these injuries and killed. What's next? What's the next step in our tolerance, about our liberal, and I don't know what kind of approach to the migrant crisis. Well, when Victor Orban was so stupid, you called him and held a joint session. When this Viktor Orban has no idea how to protect the citizens of Hungary, you're celebrating friendship with Victor Orban. Well, listen to this Victor Orban. I don't see a single resemblance between SNS policy and Fides politics in Hungary, and you're like big friends. You have completely opposite policies both in the economic sphere and in the financial sphere in the monetary sphere and in the sphere of the migrant crisis in family policy and everything else. And here you act like you're some friends, you're working together. Well, here's when you're friends, protect the citizens of Serbia from migrants fighting to death at the Green Venice, that we don't know who's next in their activities in downtown Belgrade.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7305	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7306	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Maybe it's better that the one who spoke a little before and didn't smile, because what he did was an explanation of the amendment that is scandalous in itself, maybe it's least of a laugh. It's good if she's capable of keeping her serious. As far as the issues of the migrant crisis and Serbia's relationship with it are concerned, Serbs arrive exclusively in praise from around the world from both the east and the west. Serbia can only be proud of its role in the crisis. It is much more European than many European countries, which these countries themselves say in their relationship with people, in their human approach, in the way they treat these people. True, different countries have applied different mechanisms. It is everyone's right to choose how well he thinks it is, but Serbia has absolutely nothing to be ashamed of. This should also be supported by the amendment promoter, if for no other reason, because he makes an effort whenever he meets someone from Europe to somehow point out that he is quite pro-European, but in some way, and how he can experience it. He's not that Eurosceptic when he talks to them, how big he is when he shows up here in some square. No one will choose our friends, ladies and gentlemen, Hungary and Serbia today have an extraordinary relationship. They're about how the question is if we've ever had one. It's because we have responsible people in power both in one country and in another. People who know how difficult it is when this job is run by one state and one nation, how difficult it is when it is done safely and responsibly, so they understand well and understand both the prices and the effort and the results of each other. Who can't understand that? Maybe only one who doesn't have friends, so that doesn't mean much to him at all, who has to look for them in suspicious myths, under various flags, or that they may be offered favorably for a candidate, and there's nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7307	The word has Minister Nela Kuburovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7308	I will still stick to the amendment and what you have proposed in the amendment. I just want to go back to what you said that we are adapting to this criminal part of the migrant crisis, it's not hard for me, I'll repeat as many times as it takes, to meet the obligation of the Istanbul Convention. I just wish you'd at least had a chance to see what this mutilation looked like and that there are different forms of mutilation, that the most difficult form of so-called. Infibulation, which means completely removing female sex organs, I don't suppose you'd have that kind of comment. To go back to what you suggested, that you were so against this crime, I suppose you would suggest eradicating this member, not changing the range of sentences, but I also have to look back at what you've put in the amendment and predicting it to be a prison sentence from six months to five years. The promoter, above all, was in charge of a prison sentence prescribed for serious physical injury, where this period of punishment is from one year to eight years. So, considering that the mutilation of a female sex organ is one of the types of serious physical injury, Article 1 also prescribed this range of prison sentences.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7309	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7310	Thank you. I'm using the Democratic Party's parliamentary group time. The context by which the minister explained the introduction of the crime, and based on the Istanbul Convention, is correct. And connecting with what we call a migrant crisis, it should only produce additional questions in this room – what are we going to do and how are we going to change more of the regulations to keep up with life? The government of the Republic of Serbia in its fifth year has a very short list of good things, but managing the refugee crisis is one of those good things. Whoever wants to deny it doesn't understand that we are one of the few countries that treated the refugee and migrant crisis as the whole of the EU from a human rights perspective. I hope no one in the government gives up that approach, because he's the only one who can. Every nagging, every sentence that someone comes from somewhere to take something from us, every wall, shows that we haven't learned anything about the Berlin Wall, that we haven't learned anything from the accident and tragedy that we've had in the premises of the former Yugoslavia, that we haven't learned anything about humanity, no matter how many human rights regulations we've read. This is not the only crime that is treated under the Istanbul Convention as being required to be introduced into our criminal legislation. It's not far a day when we will, I hope we won't, but it's possible we have honor killings on our country's territory. What are you going to do about it? He kills his sister, his wife, his mother, and reports that he's sorry, but that she embarrassed the family. There are cultures, there are legislation where such a crime is not being prosecuted. Whether or not we're going to be able to see that someone thinks it's natural, I don't know, I hope we don't. But given that life is changing as well as cultural customs, and as we adapt to what is changing in life, I think this is the very right decision of the government as a pronoun to include this crime as a criminal offence under the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7311	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7312	Thank you. Here we have one classic situation of absurdity, and this absurdity between the reasoning and the amendment itself, because the reasoning denies one part of the criminal law, and on the other hand, the amendment proposes sanctioning in the way it is proposed, and that by easing the criminal sanctions that should be threatened by criminal sanctions. So, one classic absurd. Knowers of international criminal law know very well that there is a possibility so-called Provisions for the application of the relevant law, domestic or foreign, and those who do not know about it, he will appeal to a migrant law that never existed or existed. Migrant law has flossed something or someone who has said something that is legal nonsensic, and nonsensic in translation means nonsense. Thus, there is no need to waste great words and energy to explain something that is quite clear. The state of Serbia has committed itself to protecting migrants, protecting what their right implies, an unimpaired right recognised by international acts, as well as a universal declaration of human rights and its freedoms. And in this case, the state of Serbia acts properly and acts in a way that implies protection above all what involves the most important value of man, and one of these values is the value to protect full freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7313	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7314	Thank you. I felt by the amendment simply the need to come forward as a woman in the first place and referring to defending the establishment of this crime by the minister, I would say to the rapporteur, or I would recommend, this amendment that it is not necessary to look at the photos, just enough to read the descriptions of all those things that involve the genital mutilation of women and never say again what he said here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7315	The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7316	Thank you. To explain what I said here, thank you for that. So nobody here argues that any mutilation of anyone, any body and body parts should be prosecuted. Don't give us what we didn't tell you right now. We're just saying that such a practice, such religious cults, such a tradition in the Serbian people and the state does not exist, that there is no example for which you introduce this crime. Who are you instituting this crime for? Because of the migrants. Where did the migrants come from in our country? Well, you let them in. How did they get in? Well, different ways. How come they don't get into these European countries? Well, they raised a wall. And why do they praise you for having you here and not receiving them? Well, because they see that it's much better for us to receive and that we have problems than for them to have. Not only will they praise you, but they will fund you, that we are receiving migrants here, making asylum centres, adapting our legislation to migrants, better than that happening there. It's best that it happens here. That's what we're talking about. No one here defends any mutilation. No one here defends any crime, on the contrary. But here we are entering a dangerous zone of adapting our legislation to migrant processes. Well, we're against it. We want to stop the intrusion of migrants into our country, modeling your friend Victor Orban.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7317	Ambassador, be kind, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7318	This was a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7319	I don't know if it was a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7320	This was a replica, because, let me say, I was called the amendment of nonsense, plus misread. Let me finish. Maybe it's the SPS nonsens.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7321	Ambassador, do you want to talk about the amendment or not?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7322	Here, I finished the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7323	So we don't want to fight all the time. You call all parties because they have different attitudes than yours. You said yours, they said theirs, I guess it's allowed. The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS Group. No one wants a word. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic. That amendment was accepted by the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7324	I think it's a good thing that the Proposer accepted the amendment that the threatened penalty for the mutilation of a female sex organ with a fatal consequence would be up to 12 years. It's simple, I think it's fair to say in this debate that we have a serious physical injury in our criminal code, that many of these forms have been subjected to severe bodily injury and that there have been sentences threatened up to 12 years and that there has been no logic that we now favour someone from what we already have in the law to mutilate a female sex organ. My message is that it's certainly okay that we've introduced something from the Istanbul Convention into our legislation, but I think it would be important that you take a good look at the law you're changing before you propose. That's what we have in one part, and there's already more penalties being threatened, so it's a good thing you've accepted this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7325	Thank you. Members of the Parliament of the Dveri Group submitted together to the 9th amendment. To Article 9... You're buttoning up, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7326	The Honorable Chairman, this has already been funny, unlike fellow Eagles who have been trying all day and failed once. So I understand that you have obligations to various foreign conventions, regulations, orders, blackmails, pressures and a number of other measures that you are exposed to on this devastating path of Serbia to the EU. Your colleague, the previous speaker, with whom it would be really hard to agree, has said a key thing. You have the crime of “a serious physical injury, ” what do you adapt to certain Istanbul conventions? Here, now in this article, which we are looking for, of course, to delete, you are also adapting to this new EU speech which, of course, must be placed in the field of discrimination immediately by sexual orientation, birth identity, as new grounds of discrimination even though our Constitution does not know them. In Article 21(3), point (a) is replaced by the following: Serbia's constitution has no sexual orientation, no birth identity, as a basis for discrimination, which is why your addition to the Criminal Code to the conflict with the constitutional prohibition of discrimination, so with this amendment to the course of collapsing, because the opposite legal norm would extend constitutional sanctioning of the prohibition of discrimination, which would not be in line with the hierarchy of general legal acts. This team before the criminal offence mentioned is found in the head of the Criminal Code which prescribes criminal acts relating to the protection of the freedoms and rights of man and citizen established by the Constitution. So here you have the idea to prescribe new provisions of discrimination, to extend them to sexual orientation and gender identity, and if they are not human rights. It's not a classic human rights corps. You under pressure from the EU must expand, invent a new human rights corps to make progress on Serbia's further path to the EU. We, from Dveri, do not want to make progress in such an EU that will bring us values such as the ideology of homosexualism or I do not know what other inventions, which are absolutely in line with the traditional values that have been present in Serbia for centuries.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7327	Thank you. MPs Velimir Stanojevic and Dubravka Filipovski submitted the 9th amendment together. The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7328	Dear Mrs Kuburovic, I expect you to listen to my argument and accept this amendment on behalf of hundreds of thousands of people with disabilities. It is incomprehensible that disability is explicitly predicted as a forbidden basis for an injury to equality. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia mentions disability as a ban on discrimination. By including disability in this list, it should be ensured that it is not subject to interpretation of whether or not an infringement of equality constitutes the execution of a criminal offence. The general formulation of other vulnerable groups and personal properties, in my opinion, is not enough and leaves several hundred thousand people with disabilities unprotected, because institutions tend to narrowly interpret and that, if the personal property is not taxed, the assumption is that institutions will not enter into the interpretation of whether it belongs to other personal characteristics. On the other hand, sexual orientation and birth identity are not strictly foreseen by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and it is illogical not to indicate the disability that exists explicitly in the Constitution. On the other hand, we have a recommendation from the 2016 UN Convention to strengthen the legal framework for the protection of these persons against discrimination and to tighten the sanctions for discrimination based on disability, and this very criminal law is a great opportunity for this. According to all available data, disabled persons represent a group that is most frequently discriminated among all groups and therefore it is necessary to add disability to this list, if it already exists, as a personal property, social status, social origin, property condition, because if it is not difficult, then at least equally important for the protection of equality and these are my arguments on behalf of persons with disabilities, and I know that various associations have additionally begged you and the Ministry of Justice to adopt this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7329	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7330	On behalf of the Proposer, we accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7331	Thank you. The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. The government and the Justice Committee, the state administration, the local self-government accepted the amendment, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral draft of the law. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sreto Peric, Petar Jojic and Zoran Krasic. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7332	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 10 is about Article 138a, which adds a new, or introduces a new criminal act – persecution. We have suggested that, in Section 1, it is said – who else has been persistently persecuted in a way that can sensually endanger his personal life, will be punished with fines or prisons for up to three years, the words "whoever else unauthorized" are deleted. This new criminal offence, also found its basis in the Istanbul Convention. As far as we're concerned, there's already been a reason to incriminate this crime. You didn't have to appeal to the Istanbul Convention, but anyway, we don't mind. In German criminal law, this crime was introduced in 2007 and they are already considering how they will comply with these provisions, because in practice it presents serious problems. We were going to say that no one can persecute anyone. As soon as someone's stalking someone, it's a crime, it means they need to be incriminate as a crime. We accept that. It is acceptable for us, but if you explicitly state “unauthorized” means that there is a power of persecution. We need to be a little more specific here. Criminal legislation does not say "torture", but says it "goes by official duty" if there is a need. We need to be completely accurate here. Madam Minister, as you did with the previous amendment, I thought you didn't even know that, because you're a new, young minister, I apologize, I have no intention of insulting you, but I wanted to say that you have the right to accept the debate under the amendment, and one of the amendments that should also be accepted is this one, so be my guest.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7333	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7334	I thank you, President. I can understand that I accept the explanation given, but although there is undeniable support for this crime to be normised, there are problems in the Code that may arise in practice, and in particular may produce an unequal judicial bang. It is known that our judiciary suffers from unequal judicial practice, and this is one disease that has been going back 10, 15, perhaps significantly more years and never since this disease has been cured. For what? There are certain formulations in the proposed text of the criminal act of “exorcision” which will cause problems in practical application, starting with the formulation of a certain period of time. The question arises – what is the specific period of time? Follow-up. Is that a 24-hour follow-up? Is that a follow-up in 15 days, a year, six months, five days? In any event, it might be a more precise formulation for it to be a longer period of time, so that courts and prosecutors find out on this basis how to detect, i.e. identify, or act as perpetrators of a criminal offence. In principle, I have shown in the debate that there seems to be an identity, but approximately identical formulation in the crime of endangering security. In the case of a crime of security, we have a similar formulation contained in point 4 of point 2. - who threatens to attack life and body, is added here – and freedom, or freedom from another person, her close face. Here we have about a coincidence of incrimination, or qualification when it comes to a crime. What I think can also cause unequal court practice is a formulation – they take other similar actions. Others, similar actions, mean a broad term. A pretty broad term and then we'll lead to volunteerism in the prosecution's actions. The courts are bound by the charges, must not exceed the identity of the indictment or the limit of the indictment, whether it is an indictment or an indictment on the basis of a threatened sentence, there will be a situation in which other similar actions will be widely observed when it comes to incrimination, i.e. illegal acts. In any case, this crime should exist and the illegality in this crime must be found and recognized, only to narrow down as much as possible so that the courts do not burden themselves with the possibilities of different interpretations. Or, in this case, by some deep conviction, the Supreme Cassation Court shall determine when appropriate formulations are involved in order to even the court fee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7335	The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Alexic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic. You want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7336	The Honorable President of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, concerns the persecution and introduction of a new crime, where I think the absolutely reckless legislator of the law said it was a crime - who else has been unauthorizedly persecuted in a way that I don't know what, and then says by Article 5. – take other similar actions. Laws cannot be written – so does other similar actions. It is good that you have accepted the opposition's amendment, colleagues from the DS are also, I think that most parliamentary groups have also submitted an amendment to this article. You accepted it to be defined more precisely and that's good. When I saw this member, and when I saw that it was going to take other similar actions, it occurred to me that you actually wanted to prevent what SNS activists used to do in the elections when they knocked and rang on the citizens' door with their personal data and asked them who they were voting for? This is persecution, and it has been a persistent persecution, that you come to the door and ask people, whether you will vote for this or that, and you have all the information about them. Now it's more precise in a better way, because you've accepted the second amendment to this article, but I ask you not to be such a broad wording in the future that doesn't mean anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7337	The 11th Amendment was submitted by the MP LJupka Mihajlovska. The word has a folk letter from LJupka Mihajlovska. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7338	Thank you. Well, first of all, I'd like to commend the promoter for finally, after years of punishment for the crime of rape and the punishment for the promise of powerless persons is even and that's a good thing. However, an even better thing would be if practically these two crimes had entered into one. The idea of my amendment was that the actual definition of rape was changed, and yet in line with the recommendations of the Istanbul Convention and in line with the movements in international law. In fact, the accent is that, in practice, a promise or an equal act is considered all that has been done over a person who has not given his consent, whether there has been the use of force, threat or not. It also didn't occur to me, it was also a proposal from the Autonomous Women's Centre and various organisations dealing with people with disabilities, especially in the practice that it was assumed by default that if the person was powerless, and these are the most often persons, or women with disabilities, there was no physical force, which, of course, does not necessarily mean. If you've already leveled your sentence, I don't see why this isn't a felony. Here in reason, in addition to this first part of the written explanation, there is a part where it says - the threatened sentence of Article 178. The criminal code proposed by the amendment is too high. I'm the one who put the exact same punishment that you gave change, and that's from five to 12 years in prison. Thank you, and I'd like to hear a brief, even oral explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7339	Thank you. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by the MP LJupka Mihajlovska. You want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7340	Thank you. Here's the idea of erasing Article 179. Penal Code if an amendment to Article 11 is accepted Proposal to amend and supplement the Criminal Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7341	National MPs Nenad Canak, Marinika Tepic, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted to the 12th amendment. You want a word? (No) Thank you. The amendments were jointly submitted by the People's MPs Maja Vidinovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. The word has a national MP, Maja Vidinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7342	Dear President, Madam Minister, I'll just remind you briefly. What we have stated in the light of the law, I find it extremely important and I welcome your initial tendency that, in accordance with your intensity and social need, you have prescribed stricter penalties for acts against full freedoms. In this regard, in this regard, my colleague Jerkov and I submitted an amendment requiring that, in Article 180, paragraph 1 - "three months to three years", they were replaced by the words "one to eight years". I'll read it to you. The law is about a member of 181st where he says, who, by misusing his position, stated a promise or an equal act of a person to him in relation to any subordination or addiction, will be imprisoned from three months to three years. We propose to increase both the legal minimum and the legal maximum for this crime. It's unusual that only this crime isn't covered by the tightening of sanctions. I don't need to assume that I'm talking about the extremely difficult evidence of this crime, the extremely difficult proof of the actions of execution, the subtle forms that follow the operation of the execution of this crime, the fear and suffering passed by the damaged person, the primary woman, the victim, the stigmatization of the environment and that fear that is spreading. Please think again. This is the only crime that does not follow the raising of the legal minimum and maximum, and in that sense our amendment goes on more to double-enhancing sanctions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7343	Parliamentarians Milorad Mircic, Petar Jojic and Zoran Krasic together submitted the 15th amendment. The word is Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7344	Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to Article 15 of the proposed law, the SRS has tabled an amendment and I remain with that amendment. However, we live in a period of power and the powerlessness of punishment. Madam Minister, you're a young man and you have ambitions, but what's my message is to resist the pressures. Don't let any officials come to you from the EU so you have to accept everything they're looking for. When it comes to amending and supplementing the Criminal Code, I draw attention to the fact that Serbia must accept the Council of Europe's framework decision. Serbia does not have to accept the framework decision of the Council of Europe, as other EU members do not accept it either. They accept it individually, but in no case accepts it for an examination of genocide. For questioning, it can only be a Holocaust. That's the case with France, Germany and Austria and Belgium. So, Serbia, and if it were a member of the European Union, would not have to accept a review of genocide. Since we have a constitution...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7345	Ambassador, it's full of harassment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7346	I wanted to draw attention to the law that included exactly what you said, but at the same time it included provisions relating to the review of genocide.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7347	But it's not about the amendment. I totally understand, but it's not about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7348	I'm just saying that Serbia is out of obligation and that is why the minister should not accept everything served from the European Union, especially when low-level officials come to the justice ministry. When I was a federal minister of justice, I couldn't get through any doors like this! Nobody from the European Union!
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7349	We trust you, but let's get back to the law. Members of the 15th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and together Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojic, Gordana Komic and Vesna Marjanovic. Thank you. A letter from Tatjana Macura submitted to the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Jesic, Dejan Nikolic, Dusan Petrovic, Tomislav Žigmanov, Veroljub Stevanovic submitted to the 15th amendment. Alexandra Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7350	I thank the president. Since our amendment regarding this amendment, which concerns the law that we previously discussed, has not been accepted, I suppose this will be the case with this amendment. In fact, we suggest that two crimes be separated – full and sexual harassment. We believe that full of harassment is a broader concept of sexual harassment and that someone can harass you with verbal, non-verbal or physical behavior that it aims at or constitutes a violation of the dignity of the person in the sphere of sex life without being sexual. In other words, someone can humiliate you, harass you for being a woman, without being sexually harassed. You are giving a vague response in the government's opinion which is why the amendment is not accepted. You're saying you think this definition that you're giving is more specific. On the contrary, we think it's more accurate if we establish two distinct distinct crimes. We also predict for them various lengths of punishment. So it's unclear why you'd think it's more accurate what it's all about. I suppose the amendment will not be accepted, since you have not accepted our amendments based on this amendment concerning the law that we have already discussed. I'd like to hear, simply, more information than simply think that what you're proposing is more accurate. Like I said, what you're proposing isn't more accurate, it's just more extensive.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7351	Thank you. Ambassador Milan Lapčević submitted to the 15th amendment. Does anyone want to discuss it? Members of the Parliament of the Dveri Group submitted together to the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7352	The Dveri Parliamentary Group believes that all crimes involving minors should be punished even more severely and that is why our amendment was to increase the sentence from three months to three years to six months to five years. In the time ahead, there are certain that there will be more and more things coming to us from Europe, where they have improved extremely well in all these acts of violence against children. So we believe that an increase in penalties under this law and this amendment would be necessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7353	A Member of the 15th Amendment was submitted by a Member of the Parliament of Alexander Chabrai. You want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7354	Thank you. Here we are talking about a crime - full of harassment which, as far as I know, is now for the first time norm especially in our criminal legislation. It was mentioned earlier in other crimes, but it is now particularly legal for the first time. We have proposed one amendment to this amendment. The Proposer predicted that criminal activity under Article 1 should be done as proposed. Namely, it wasn't exactly defined whose proposal it was. In an analog interpretation of the Criminal Code, we can conclude that it is a proposal for a victim or a damaged one. In fact, we believe that this proposal has been proposed by the Proposer relativated and reduced the weight of this crime, predicting subsidiary prosecution as proposed. Also, we believe that the proponent here has neglected something that has already been spoken of several times here, which is that the victim or the damaged is often out of fear of retribution, out of fear that he will not be protected enough by the state to file a criminal report, and we believe that it is not good to have a weight or responsibility for prosecution here transferred to the victim. It is explained, among other things, that this crime refers to a sensitive area of privacy, or dignity in the sphere of sex life. Well, rape is being prosecuted on official duty, so we're not going to say that rape in this sense is less stressful or less trauma to the victim than sexual harassment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7355	Members of the LSV parliamentary group submitted together to Article 15 of the amendment. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic. He's not here. Members Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Jesic, Dejan Nikolic, Veroljub Stevanović and Dusan Petrovic and Tomislav Žigmanov together submitted the 16th amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7356	I thank the president. Something very strange happened here with the explanation you gave of your opinion which is why you do not accept this amendment. Namely, this member speaks of the subject matter of pornographic content resulting from the exploitation of a minor. You suggest that the person who consciously accesss these contents be punished. We suggest that this word - knowingly deleted because we believe that every crime, except in very rare cases, is carried out consciously and that this word in this context is completely excessive, and this should apply to everything, and not only to those who consciously approach these contents. However, in the explanation that you are giving you, you are calling for an explanation that you have given by rejecting our amendment to Article 7 concerning something completely different. We offered to define the term – child pornography, which we still think should be done, but this amendment does not apply. This amendment concerns that we propose that the word – knowingly deleted and that this member is now read – who, through the means of information technologies, access to images, audio-visual and other objects of pornographic content created by the exploitation of minors will be fined by fine or prison for up to six months. We suggest that this applies not only to those who consciously access these contents, because I don't know how it can happen that someone unwittingly accesss such content, and therefore we suggest something that you don't actually give in terms of why you don't accept.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7357	Representatives Maja Vidinovic, Radoslav Milojic, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, submitted to the 16th amendment. Parliamentarians of the Dveri Group submitted together to the 17th amendment. You want a word? Ivan Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7358	Also, as with the previous amendment, we believe that penalties should be increased. We already had one law in the 2013 Assembly, Mary's Law, so unfortunately this practice in Serbia is not so much, but it is repeating again. So, in any case, you should punish people who do sex work on children as drastically as possible. So we're pushing for these penalties to be even more severe.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7359	Members of the 19th Amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and together Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojic, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanović. You want a word? Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7360	Thank you. The amendment refers to the addition of Article 177a, where we want to change attitude 2 so that it is said – Who, for the purpose of carrying out the work of Article 1 of this Article, takes the other person abroad or, to the same end, leads him to go abroad or commits it to a minor, will be sentenced by imprisonment from six months to five years. It seems like a failure to prescribe a qualified form of this crime when it comes to a minor and that's why we asked that the sanctions be higher than the law is proposed. That is the only reason why we explain by changing attitude 2.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7361	The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs of the DS group Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Jesic, Dejan Nikolic, Dusan Petrovic, Veroljub Stevanović and Tomislav Žigmanov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Srdjan Nogo, Bosko Obradović, Dr Dragan Vesović, Marija Janjušević, Mr Ivan Kostic and Zoran Radojić together submitted the 20th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Jesic, Dejan Nikolic, Dusan Petrovic, Veroljub Stevanović and Tomislav Žigmanov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivković, joint MPs Nenad Canak, Marinika Tepic, Olena Papug and Nada Lazić, joint MPs Čedomir Jovanovic, Enis Imanovic, Natasa Mićić, Dr Zarko Korać, Nenad Milić and Bajro Gegić, joint MPs Marko Djurić, Miroslav Djurić, Goran Bogdanović, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stanković, joint MPs Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Jesic, Dejan Nikolic, Veroljub Stevanović, Dusan Petrović and Tomislav Žigmanov and joint MPs Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojic, Gordana Čomić, and Vesna Marjanović. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7362	So it is clear to you that all MPs have submitted a similar amendment for the simple reason that you have tried to rule out the Criminal Law to punish prisons from three months to three years those who violate the measure of protection against domestic violence, at the same time as you have proposed a special law on domestic violence. So it's the opposite of each other. It is good that you have accepted the amendment, it seems to me, colleagues of Omerovic and other colleagues, and you have corrected that mistake, but I do not understand where you come from that idea that when we talk here for days about domestic violence, you rule out the violation of the protection measures against domestic violence, you rule it out as a crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7363	The word has Minister Nela Kuburovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7364	Thank you. I wish you'd been present during the debate all these days, so you'd hear the reason why this position was even tried to erase, and the reason I'm going to repeat it is not difficult, which was not applied in court practice at all, nor did the courts impose a sentence for violating the protection measure provided for by Family Law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7365	The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word, then Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7366	Thank you. This is one of the amendments that the representatives of the Autonomous Women's Center said if it was adopted it would be completely pointless everything we talked about when we talked about the law on preventing domestic violence. When we spoke in the debate in principle, this was our concern when we said that we should not be allowed to adopt a law that would in fact make it even more difficult for women who suffer violence and who would send a message to the domestics that the country would be easier on them in the future. If the courts didn't apply this member of the law, then that's the problem of the courts, not the problem of the law. Do not deny someone the right to do so because someone did not know how to apply it. We, of course, as well as all other parliamentary groups, have proposed that this sentence for those who violate the restraining order remain in the law. We hope that this will be accepted and we invite you and the MPs to agree on this, although a similar amendment has been adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7367	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7368	Thank you. The draft law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code was to delete Article 22, proposal for amendments and additions, i.e. to delete the original proposal of the Government, to delete the position of Article 5 of Article 194. A criminal code - which violates the protection measures against domestic violence ordered by the court under the law will be punished by imprisonment from three months to three years and by fine. We understand that an amendment that leaves the position of Article 5 of Article 194 with words has been accepted, not deleted. I don't mind, on the contrary, I'm glad it's accepted, but I think the amendment deserves our argument dialogue that the government has, which I understand. The government has been following it for 10 or 11 years one measure that it has introduced in good faith, with good intentions in Family Law, no one has ever applied it and says - this is not going to be done, no one will apply it, let's delete it. That's the problem because it can happen in three years for you to come here and say, saying an emergency measure to no one has been told, no one has been made an assessment of the risk so that an emergency measure is expressed, that an emergency measure is lifted. These laws you are introducing, as well as the original amendments to the Criminal Code, which introduced domestic violence as a crime, have defined huge resistances. I remember very vividly the sentences that I want to destroy the traditional Serbian family because I claim that in our family, I beat up whoever gets here, whatever it is that gets here, whatever it comes for.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7369	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7370	If I have time for a parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7371	You're out of time. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7372	Minister, you replied to me that you were standing by to delete Article 194 of Section 5. I ask you, then, why did you accept the amendment that is the same, colleagues Mehe Omerovic, Peter Petrovic and Milorad Mijatovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7373	The word has Minister Nela Kuburovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7374	Thank you. Just to be precise, we have suggested eradicating, but it was intended to be a criminal liability and the possibility of sentenceing the prison for up to 60 days, which meant that in an urgent procedure and before the lawfulness of the decision, the sentence could be carried out, i.e. that the bully who violates the penalty would be imposed for 60 days. Since a large number of MPs in the assembly were against it, even from the ruling one, not only were you, I think it was reasonable to accept the amendment. What I think I've shown and during the whole debate, it doesn't matter who the amendment comes from, it's about the explanation that we get, and I don't have any problem if a better solution is envisaged than the one who suggested that we accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7375	The 22nd amendment, with a correction, was jointly submitted by the MPs Stefana Miladanovic and Snezana Paunovic. The word has a folk letter from Stefan Miladanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7376	Thank you, Your Honor. I also mentioned in principle the amendment of my colleague, Snezana Paunovic and mine, and also as regards Article 22, or Article 194 of the applicable Criminal Code, with our amendment referring to the first position of this member. For the sake of the public, the member in force, I will read, and also my colleague, says - By applying violence, the threat of attacking life and the body, brazen or reckless behavior, endangers the serenity, physical integrity or mental state of a member of his family, will be punished by imprisonment from three months to three years. Our amendment is a change of this first attitude, which should read – by applying physical or psychological violence, the threat of attacking life or body, bold and reckless behavior, intimidation, underestimation, by creating any form of uncertainty endangers the calmness, physical or psychological integrity of a member of his family, will be punished by imprisonment from three months to three years. I really think it is important that you consider once again the adoption of this amendment, since we have suggested that there be special separation and expression of both physical and psychological violence, i.e. The obligation we have taken over by ratification of the Istanbul Convention, and certainly it is important, except for the separation of this physical and psychological violence which, as two phenomenal forms may be but also do not have to be at the same time. Especially when it comes to psychological violence, it is important that we sanction it, because it precedes physical violence. We have also proposed a termological alignment, i.e. a replacement term – mental state in term – mental integrity. Of course, this termological alignment is in accordance with Article 25. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which guarantees the invulnerability of physical and psychological integrity, but there is also a fundamental difference between the mental state which represents part of comprehensive psychic integrity and refers to basic emotions, which in itself can be different, while psychic integrity means integrity and integrity of personality. The only violation of mental integrity is due to conflict situations, so psychological integrity is what is being threatened by psychological violence. We really think it would be a good idea for you to accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7377	Thank you. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Petrovic and jointly Milorad Mijatovic and Meso Omerovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The word has a National MP, Milorad Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7378	Dear Presidents, my colleagues Gordana Komic, Aleksandra Jerkov and Nenad Konstantinovic explained the essence of our amendment submitted by Meho Omerovic, Petar Petrovic and my smallness in the same text. I think it's good that it's accepted and that what's left of the Criminal Law is good for further proceedings that are going to take place. At this set of laws, the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Session, the Social Democratic Party submitted five amendments and all amendments were adopted. Which would be professorial – sit down, excellent, five.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7379	The 27th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Jesic, Dejan Nikolic, Veroljub Stevanovic, Dusan Petrovic and Tomislav Žigmanov. The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7380	This is about a responsible person who, by taking advantage of his position or authority, by exceeding the limits of his authority or by failing to perform his duty, obtains to himself or to another natural or legal person the anti-legal property benefit, or to others the property damage, etc. We want it to be completed in other words to another economic operator, because it is a little bit of a misunderstanding, what does that mean? It's indeterminately written because this is about both the physical and the legal person. The subject of the sentence is very well defined, however, there is no telling who else it can apply to. You here say in your explanation that there is no need to clarify what is meant when it is said – another. We think so. Now we're really already coming to the essence of the reasoning that you give when you refuse to give us the amendments, you say every time you say that you're actually practically refusing the amendments because you wrote it differently. We haven't heard a valid explanation for any rejection of the amendment, which is why you refuse these amendments, except that you think it's better that you wrote it. So we can endure, Madam Minister, amendments, and we would reject the amendments, and Mr Martinovic would, in fact, now no more Mr Martinovic than the chairman of the committee responsible for that would refuse us with the right of the amendment because we can't constantly explain the amendments that we give because we think it's as good as we wrote it, and you, on every amendment that we give an explanation why you don't accept you say it – because you think your formulation is better. It would be good to hear some real arguments sometimes, not those you listed.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7381	Thank you. Parliamentarians Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 27th amendment. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7382	Dear Parliament Speakers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is a key amendment proposed by the law, the Ministry, that has refused, and that is an amendment to end the crime of abuse of the position of the responsible person. For citizens to know, abuse of a responsible person's position concerns a director at a private firm. You have done one crime that he says – a responsible person who, using his position, has done property damage to someone else, unless the characteristics of another crime have been achieved, has committed a crime. So, every businessman in this country, every director, every private company owner, unless he's done any other crime from the economy, he'll be responsible for what he did because he hurt someone else. Redefined negatively something that cannot be defined negatively. It is not clear here what it is that the director of a company is being defended and this crime, as it has been formulated, exclusively serves that the Serbian Progressive Party threatens every businessman in this country to be able to end up on the indictee's bench, that it can go into custody and be discredited in the country's social life. So this is a crime that doesn't know what it's about. You, in your explanation of why you refuse the amendment, say – it is necessary to exist. It is not necessary to exist, there is no criminal offence in any EU country, and the European Commission report, which you have probably read, indicates that this crime should be lifted. You're full of Europe's mouth, you've got a European Commission report that says you've abolished this crime, and you won't. These are remains of communism, it was in the criminal part of abuse of official position, and we also said that it should be abolished. However, you simply do not want to bring into this country the rule of law and the rule of law. There's no rule of law if anyone can answer for something that's done to the executive or public prosecutor that's committed a crime, and we don't know which. What did he do? Did he take the bribe? Did he give it a bribe? What's that? So there's no such thing. Don't blackmail any more citizens of this country by legally allowing yourself to keep people blackmailed daily. How many did you file, how many charges were made in "The Slicer"? There's not one. So many people were arrested, so many ended up in custody, for crimes like this, and then there's no charges. Because you can't prove it. So you had a chance to step forward bravely, make a change. You don't have the will of politics or the courage to do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7383	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7384	I would really like someone else to draw my attention to why the decriminalization of this crime has not been committed. But I will remind you of what you did in 2009 and right now we are removing and suffering the consequences of everything that was entered into the Criminal Code in 2009. To be precise and clear, by 2009, there was a member of 359. The law, the abuse of official office, which reads: “By taking advantage of his official position and authority, by exceeding the limits of his official authority or by failing to carry out his official duty, he or she shall obtain to himself or another benefit, cause any harm or serious harm to the other person’s rights, by imprisonment from six months to five years. “ Look at the wonders, the one who now complains to me in 2009 changes Article 359, which reads: “Officially or responsibly. ” So, in 2009, you introduced the term responsible person into the provisions of the Criminal Code, where there was an inflation of criminal proceedings precisely because of abuse of official position. It is true that the European Commission has then assessed this as one of the most negative provisions contained in the Criminal Code, but we have tried, above all, to amend and supplement in 2012, to extract a responsible person into a special criminal offence, precisely in view of the number of criminal proceedings being conducted. We need to take care of the fact that by suspending criminal proceedings, this country pays and how large damages, which it pays anyway because of unfounded imprisonment, because of the conduct of criminal proceedings, so that we narrowed down the crime scene, pulled out a particularly criminal act, and there was also a lesser prison sentence than you did to Article 359. We have now tried to specify and point out that this crime is a subsidiary character by introducing new crimes in the context of economic activity, giving the possibility of judicial practice to exactly what the objective of this law is, and that is precisely to protect economic activity, the responsible persons are being punished, or to apply the provisions of new crimes, and that abuse of the position of the responsible person has only a subsidiary character.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7385	Minister's time. Vladimir Orlic asked for a replica of your presentation, then you, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7386	Thank you, Madam President. To the essence that has just been presented by the Minister, I have absolutely nothing to add. So, as far as science is concerned, the story is more than clear. As for these practices that we have touched and possible consequences, precisely because the SNS has been mentioned, and now so strikingly, sharply, but not just now more than once by the promoter, I will give myself the luft to look back at exactly what we have said about these practices and possible consequences. That, ladies and gentlemen, is exactly the essence of this proposal. That and nothing else, that something should be thrown out so that some processes would stop, that someone would be paid some damages. If someone doesn't know exactly what it's about, precisely the abuse of a responsible person's position, they're being pursued by the biggest, most insolent, most reckless tycoons in this country. This is an orderly amendment and it's the only thing that was brave in here. But our answer is, there's nothing to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7387	Replica Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7388	Minister, you've brought new crimes into the economy. You've covered every possible situation in the economy. Any possible situation relating to tycoons, which my colleague mentions. What is it that prevents you from meeting the European Commission's request in the accession process and in the closing process, or negotiating, regarding Chapter 23? How do you think this chapter should be closed and we should join the EU if you do not do what the European Commission says directly in your report that you need to be done? That's one thing. The other thing, so you have all possible crimes in the economy, now is the moment you can end this crime. It couldn't have been abolished before all the crimes in the economy that are now being planned were planned. So, what's stopping you from ending it now? Whomever you do in this part, and who hasn't done anything else that can be proven, must be prosecuted. Well, it's not the same. It's not the same as when it was abuse of official position. You say – one who has not done any other intended crime can be prosecuted for this crime. And I'm asking you for what? So, why don't you put an end to abuse of your official position? What do these crimes look like? I don't know if you realize that people don't know what to defend themselves from. So here in the economy you have a company director who's done financial damage to another firm. People, it's business, if this guy has concluded a good deal, he hasn't concluded a good deal, if this guy's in harm's way, you can prosecute this guy for a felony. Why? Because he was smarter, so he better concluded a deal on their relationship. So this crime serves exclusively to blackmail all businessmen in this country by the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7389	Thank you. Vladimir Orlic, the replica, and you will follow the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7390	You're welcome to sign up for the amendment, because we haven't heard anything yet. So, my recommendation to both the minister and the others, there's no need to go further into the debate. You see this as a simple need for the promoter to do what was ordered, and the conclusion remains the same. To keep the amendment, not to accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7391	It was the amendment, then. It wasn't a replica. George Komlenski, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7392	I'll do it very briefly. This is only an indication that the ministry does not operate by anyone's directive and order. This amendment is absolutely clear that it should not be accepted, this would lead to an end to proceedings, not fabricated crimes, but precisely those crimes for which there is evidence. Therefore, it cannot be allowed that because of the requalification, or eradication of this crime, someone is indirectly absolved from the crimes he committed during the previous period.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7393	Thank you. The 27th amendment was submitted by Dr Ana Stevanovic. Anna Stevanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7394	Thank you. My amendment refers to two interventions. First, I suggest that the crime of abuse of the position of responsible person be abolished, or decriminalized. In a situation where social property is no longer available, it is totally unacceptable that, in our positive right, this work continues to exist. In this way, incriminating labour is completely contrary to the principles of the free and open market. The person responsible for the misjudgement punishes the market or the owner of the capital by the damage claim, but that person is not and cannot be held guilty. We're almost the only country in the world that criminally sanctions wrong decisions. The legislator explained that the reason for the law to be passed is to comply with certain standards set by the EU, whose Republic of Serbia wants to become a member. I would like to know how to justify an emergency procedure to comply with EU rules, and one of the basic instruments of European law is rejected. Otherwise, I appreciate the Ministry's opinion, but I would like to ask the Minister to give us three concrete examples of this crime in order for us to understand that it is absolutely necessary to keep it and to protect business. In what particular situation this act will apply, and we will see the necessity of the existence of this crime, because it is not given in the light of my rejected amendment. My second objection is that the promoter did not enter an element of purpose in the criminal act of a restrictive agreement. Not every restrictive agreement can be a form of crime, but only one which has been approached by participants with the intention of countering legal action. I therefore propose that the offence of abuse of the position of the responsible person should be deleted, and that the restrictive agreement introduces the intention, as it has been done in other acts against the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7395	Thank you, colleague Stevanović. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7396	Mr. Chairman has one sentence of everything. Same client, same story, same conclusion, not to be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7397	Thank you. The word has the People's MP George Komlenski, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7398	Thank you. I suggest that the amendment be rejected and indeed an unacceptable explanation, to connect any way the concept of social property to the existence of abuse of official position at this time, because it was simply never a qualitative moment when it comes to this criminal act. Another thing, to deceive Serbian citizens that there is a codified EU law and to appeal, is simply not true. The European Union consists of 27 different legislations. Thus, different ways are similar or such criminal acts in certain legislation defined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7399	I thank my colleague Komlenski. The word is Anna Stevanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7400	I thank my colleagues, but I would ask the minister again just to give us three situations in which we can see an excuse for the continued existence of this crime. So I would just ask the Minister to give us a concrete answer, so a description of the three situations in which this act has its own justification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7401	Thank you. The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Enis Imamovic, Natasa Micic, Dr Zarko Korac, Nenad Milic and Bajro Gegic. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7402	Thank you, Chairman. I'm just going to get connected, given that about these few amendments, which represent the amendment Corps, and they refer to the crime of abuse of a responsible person, without just being justified for one single reason. I wish that the proposings of these amendments would explain who will compensate for the damage and from which the funds will compensate all those who have been covered by this crime so far, and now they would be out of the reach of criminal responsibility. So, just one question, nothing more, for all the proposings, who it is, and from which funds will be paid for by all those who will in any case have, in case God forbid, to really decriminalize this crime and what it will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7403	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7404	To answer my colleague Nedji Jovanovic, as the question was addressed to me. Now there are ten new crimes from the economy. Therefore, these actions that are under way, if they can be subjected to these crimes, that is, if there is anything to be prosecuted for, they will continue to be prosecuted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7405	My colleague Konstantinovic, I'm sorry. We're on a completely different amendment, but you're done.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7406	He asked a colleague a question on this subject, so he'll be able to prosecute for those other crimes and there's no harm done, and there can be no explanation that we're not going to end something because there might be some damage to someone to make up for. If she's supposed to make up for it, then the state's gonna make up for it, which drives people for pointless things.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7407	Thank you. The 27th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Nogo, Bosko Obradović, Dr Dragan Vesovic, Marija Janjusevic, Mr Ivan Kostic and Zoran Radojić. (Nedjo Jovanovic, from the place: I answered before. No, I didn't have you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7408	I thank you, Chairman. I, unfortunately, didn't get an adequate answer. My esteemed colleague Nenad Konstantinovic and how well he knows what retroactively means...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7409	A colleague of Jovanovic, so please don't, we're on a completely different amendment now.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7410	We didn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7411	We did. If I may ask, there will be an opportunity next time, but let's not discuss the amendment that we...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7412	We won't talk about it, we'll talk about it the next way. There's still danger...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7413	Will you excuse me, according to Amendment 27, which the people's...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7414	It's the same chairman, 27th is what the predecessors were looking for. You're not a lawyer, so obviously you don't understand what the point is, but I'm going to tell you about what it is that I think is...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7415	I wouldn't have just had the replicas of the amendment that passed, so two amendments ago we had it. Here you go. Finish it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7416	This amendment does not eliminate the danger I have posed. By decriminalizing the criminal act of abuse of a responsible person, they would create a danger of the possibility of compensation, immaterial damage. They could not be blamed for any other criminal act that is referred to here by the motionor, no matter what crime in a group of criminal acts that are now being normed, under the proposed law, to be covered by any criminal act, whether by the indictment, or by an indictment, because this is a law that is known when it comes into force and is known from when it will be possible to apply to potential perpetrators of criminal acts. So it doesn't say that they can be covered by new crimes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7417	Thanks for the discussion. The 27th Amendment was filed by the People's MP Alexander Chabrai. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7418	This is about us proposing that the name of this crime, which was given in law as money laundering, be changed to -legalizing money acquired by crime or criminal activity. In fact, this name is not new, it was also given in Article 231 of the previous Criminal Code. However, we believe that first of all, it is not simply appropriate to use a jargon term like this in legal normisation and secondly to illustrate the very description of the being of a criminal act. Otherwise, in this article that's very long and extensive, there's no mention of money laundering anywhere. So we think it would be more appropriate if the very name of the crime in the law was otherwise formulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7419	Thank you. The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Velimir Stanojevic and Dubravka Filipovski. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 29th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Jesic, Dejan Nikolic, Veroljub Stevanović, Dusan Petrovic and Tomislav Žigmanov. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word of the messenger of the people is Mr. Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7420	Thank you. This article refers to devices and computer programs designed or primarily for the purpose of carrying out a criminal act, a computer code, or similar data that enables access to the computer system as a whole or to some part of it with the intention of being used in the execution of a criminal act defined by Articles 298 to 303. We suggest, and you adopt it, that if those items are found in someone, they will be taken away. We think it's a good thing you accepted this amendment. I will not thank the government as other MPs for accepting the amendment. It's our job to propose amendments, and it's your job to accept the good amendments we're proposing. I'm sorry you didn't consider some of the other amendments we proposed, and thanks to which the bill, when we adopted it, would be even better.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7421	Thank you. The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Jesic, Dejan Nikolic, Veroljub Stevanović, Dusan Petrovic and Tomislav Žigmanov. The word of the messenger of the people is Mr. Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7422	Thank you. A new member of 340a shall be added to this article. In fact, the addition of the article is changed and it is said, as we propose – whoever violates the prohibition set out in the security measure is our addition – or does not carry out the obligations provided for in the measure, and then continues as you have suggested, will be fined by fine or imprisonment for up to six months. You have provided that prison sentences are only those who violate the prohibition established by the security measure, and we suggest that the group of persons who will be punished in accordance with this article should be included and those who do not comply with the obligations provided for in the measure. We don't know why it's something that's unacceptable to you. From the explanations you gave, we still can't see it. But we think the bill would be better quality and would cover more situations if you accepted this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7423	Members of the 40th Amendment in the same text were jointly submitted by MPs Milorad Mirčić, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic, MP of the People's Republic, Aleksandr Cabraj and MP Milan Lapčević. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7424	This is a criminal offence in Article 387. The criminal code of the Republic of Serbia, called Colloquial, is racial and other discrimination. If the consolidated text of that member is looked at, following this intervention offered by the amendments to this law, the position 1 protects fundamental human rights, in the position of 2nd equality of people, in paragraph 3, forbids racial hatred and racial discrimination, something similar in Article 4. A new attitude six, which would also be something similar to hate and discrimination. And what's being inserted into attitude 5 is about the approval or denial of the existence of genocide, and not to quote further. Now the question arises – what does what you put through the amendments and additions of this article have to do with any attitude from an existing member? This is where you make your kind of papaziania, which is quite and characteristic. But what's most important for the whole of this law, you know, when the Criminal Code is passed or when the Criminal Code is changed, it's normally a constrained space for amendment action. Why? If intervened, especially in that part of the special part of the Criminal Code where criminal acts are defined in some way, then it is almost inappropriate to interfere in the work of the author, because the author had to resolve the question of respect for the principle of legality, to take care of the elements of the criminal act, of the social danger, of the degree of social danger, of all other elements. And if the amendment would affect that, then when the Proposer accepts the amendment, obviously he was wrong in some of the very important elements of being a criminal act. Unfortunately, we had a chance to listen to those things too. There is no basis here to build on the new position of the 5th member, neither legal-technically nor legal-logically. There is no international obligation to do so and there is no telling what it wants to achieve in this new position 5. That there is a big problem, is evidence that the proposer himself has so come up with this attitude that, in the second part of this attitude, he brings in qualifications and other elements that need to help determine whether there is even a possibility that there is such a crime. It is obvious that you have scarabed this to prove that you are on your way to the EU, to meet all the conditions that are prescribed, but know this is inadmissible, this should not stand in this law. It's much better that you brought in a new member in these changes to punish anyone who promotes that there was genocide somewhere, and there was no genocide. Look at those you're talking to in Brussels. You haven't even gotten off the chair yet, they're coming out and saying -- this round is well over, but the EU should condemn the genocide Serbia has done in Kosovo and Metohija territory. Well, look at this non-governmental sector here, which is financed from abroad, which lightly gives qualifications, and that the Serbs on this side of Drina, on the other hand, the genocide people, have achieved something, made some of their territories, some of their own countries. I invite you to accept this amendment. The law can only gain quality.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7425	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7426	It is hard to believe that there is a willingness in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to accept the proposal of the government of Aleksandr Vukic, where jails are threatened for up to five years anyone who denies the existence of genocide. I wouldn't waste my time reading what's written in this part of Article 387 that we normally propose to delete, or suggest that at no cost be accepted. Because the obvious intention is to actually punish anyone who denies, say, the existence of genocide in Srebrenica where there was no genocide. Don't turn your head, Madam Minister, because that's more than clear. When we discussed in principle the objections and the fundamental objection was precisely this and we talked about the UN tribunal's decisions and about the innocent Serbs in The Hague tribunal, you said at the time that you did not understand why we were surprised when this text was dictated to you by the EU Commission. Now, that's what we're surprised at, and that's what's terrifying is that you're ready for the most disgusting things in the EU than your people. You've passed a lot of bad laws. You've proposed a lot of bad laws, but there's no worse provision than the one you want to punish anyone in Serbia who says there was no genocide in Srebrenica, but you're free of the law. There are people who believe that, and there are people who are willing and at the cost of imprisonment and at the cost of the Hague punishment, to say what is true that there was no genocide in Srebrenica. There is no penalty, no fines, no prisons to stop the patriots and patriots in Serbia from saying that. You are really in serious danger, you are creating artificial problems just to satisfy, you say, this is what you are saying – harmonising with the EU Council Framework Decision, with a framework decision. What I care about is that it is binding and that it is indicative and that whatever decision it is, this cannot be a provision in the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia. Madam Minister, gentlemen of Parliament, don't vote for something like this, don't participate in a campaign against the Serb people being led by our enemies by NGOs, by enemies outside who are trying to impose the thesis that Serbs are a genocide people. We didn't. We are a free nation, and we will always claim that there was no genocide in Srebrenica, and you, please, as soon as you announce in "The Official Messenger", come arrest us, we are ready for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7427	The word has Minister Nela Kuburovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7428	Thank you. I will once again try to clarify the provisions of this article, although some are trying to make my words straight, especially to quote something I did not say, and especially to be dictated by the European Commission. I will once again point to the EU Council Framework Decision of 28 November 2008 and, among other things, the Action Plan for Chapter 23 provides for the obligation to bring our criminal legislation in line with this decision. In this decision, it is precisely related to crimes related to racism and xenophobia, and also to the public, simply to be clear, whether or not it concerns the UN tribunal's decisions. The decision itself provides that each Member State shall take the necessary measures to ensure that the following acts are intended to be carried out in a criminal manner: public approval, denial or rude demeaning of the crimes of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes defined in Article. 6, 7 and 8. The statutes of the International Criminal Court which are directed against a group of persons or members of such a group established on the basis of race, skin colour, religion, origin or national or ethnicity when such an act has been carried out in a way that can promote violence or hatred against such a group or a member. The same decision states that any Member State may admit that there is a criminal offence if it is confirmed by a judicial decision of the National Court or the International Criminal Court. This is exclusively about the International Criminal Court, as a permanent body, which was established by the Rome Statute in 2002 and just the crime of genocide, the crime against humanity and war crimes were defined within the framework of the Statute, not to mention no provisional court, nor the Hague tribunal which began work much earlier, much earlier in 1993, so that this provision does not apply to the decisions of temporary courts.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7429	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Chabrai.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7430	Thank you. That this member of the 40th is very controversial, especially attitude 5, I think it also shows the fact that there has been a lot of discussion about him in the opening statement as well as today. I will relate to what my colleagues and ministers have already spoken of, but I would like to say something else. It's not just about this article and this attitude 5 we're talking about whether it was genocide in Srebrenica or not, whether we're talking about The Hague tribunal or not. The problem here is that this article, i.e. Article 5, violates the provisions of the Constitution, or Article 43. The Constitution of Serbia and a member of 46 guaranteeing freedom of opinion and expression. Also, Article 20. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says the level of human and minority rights cannot be reduced once. In fact, it is forbidden to express a free opinion of a verdict. Regardless of this argument, you cannot put any verdict, any court, above the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7431	Thank you. Minister, the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7432	I would just like to read the list of crimes to the end and that there is an objective circumstance that is necessary here, and that is that it is not only who publicly approves of the existence of genocide, but there has to be another circumstance that leads to violence or the cause of hatred. The decision I mentioned to you, of course, indicates that there can be no criminal act, if it violates freedom of expression, but it is an important and objective circumstance to fulfill the denial, or approval of genocide, which is precisely that there is violence or the cause of hatred.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7433	Thank you. Yeah, yeah, now we're going to have another lap, just to see first those who first appear. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7434	Thank you very much. As for the legal essence to this last point, precisely, once again, thank the minister for that, there's nothing to add. Because of the public who's been following, having heard different assessments, which went in the same direction, and on the one hand, that's a principle question, as far as freedom of opinion is concerned, we've heard what needs to be said. So possible adverse consequences, consequences related to results, in terms of violence, inciting hatred for people, etc. So it's not a right to think, it's a question of this consequence. The second thing, it is said, is not only a question of Srebrenica, as some have been presented, as an essential only issue of Srebrenica. To understand each other and be precise to the end, this is not at all the least a question of Srebrenica. This has nothing to do with it. I'd understand if someone was genuinely worried because they didn't know. But it is impossible that someone has lived in Serbia since last week, when this session began, until today, and has not heard all possible opinions and all possible explanations on this subject. So no one can know that this has nothing to do with it. He can only pretend that he doesn't know that he would make a little political talk, a little sound tone for himself and the politics he represents. It's not serious, but it's not something to say to anyone who represents the parliamentary majority in this assembly. We, not someone else, have protected and protected the face of this people and will do our best, so we will be as successful as we have been to avoid any adverse consequences in this regard. We, not someone else, have been able to stop our world friends from putting the Stigma together, like the genocide of the people over the Serbs. We have done it, we have taken care of it just as in every possible sense about this people and this country we take care of, and in that sense there is no need for anyone, anything to worry about. Our people understand that, among other things, is why we are in this room for more than half this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7435	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7436	Well, obviously you didn't understand me at first, so I gave the opening floor and explained where there was a mistake, but I'm not saying it for nothing. You must understand one thing when you talk about the Istanbul Convention and when you talk about some documents coming from the EU. You must know that European law does not exist. EU law exists, it's quite selective. You need to understand the quality of those people who write these documents and prescribe these standards is below the level of people who work in Serbia. They're mere perpetrators of some interest. And finally, just to draw your attention, the International Criminal Court established by the Roman Statute has never been recognised by the United States, has never delivered documents on the ratification of the statute in America. Bill Clinton didn't want to deliver it. And I guess you're reading the paper, the African states are coming out of that court, America's not a member, the Russian Federation is coming out of that court, everyone's coming out. The danger of the Permanent International Court is that, in addition to the quality of the statute and the rules of procedure and evidence, they have a poor practice of The Hague tribunal and the Rwandan Court of Justice. That's what everybody's running from. Do not call on EU regulations and EU conditions as dogma. That's our problem with these four laws, which you think anything that comes from Brussels can be eaten. It's not good. Look in the EU, who blindly adheres to their rules and standards? French 5%, Germans 2%. What they're asking of you is 120%, don't do it. They showed up and we have experience that they're prone to dangerous mistakes and we can't let them be victims anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7437	Alexander Chabrai.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7438	Thank you. I would look back on what the minister said and what Orlic was saying. So, here is not a problem of race and other discrimination, here is not a problem of dissociating hatred, because we already have members of the Criminal Code and members of the Constitution that defends this, or related to these crimes. This is about this member of the law breaking the Serbian Constitution. It only states in the explanation that it is in line with the EU Council Framework Decision, etc. We cannot critically accept any decision, or we must adapt it so that it, as I have already said in some other situations, makes it favourable for us, to make us something good, not just to rewrite it without any critical attitude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7439	Here you go, Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7440	Thank you. One last lap. So, as far as the right to freedom of opinion is concerned, it's not compromised. Everyone has the right to stand. Just keep it above, so it doesn't lead to violence and it doesn't cause hate and everything's absolutely fine, whatever that attitude is, no matter how critical, just don't let it have these consequences and everything's fine. As for the remarks that we are too European and non-critical, so you know how, make some middle value between that attitude and the one we heard from the listeners of large capital just now, that we are not European enough. So you can conclude that somewhere we're just about about balanced enough for the absolute majority of people in this country to think it's right and we're satisfied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7441	Thank you. Here you go, Alexander Chabrai.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7442	Thank you. I don't think most people in this country think this is right. Indeed, once again I will answer you, it is not about dissipating hatred; but the Constitution regulates it, and the Constitution and the Criminal Code. It is said that Serbia guarantees freedom of thought and expression, free expression, and that it violates this member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7443	The word has Serbian Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7444	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, when we talk about freedom of mind and what most citizens in Serbia think, I must say, I'm surprised that some have memories that are so short. In the election, the citizens said what they were thinking. In the free democratic elections, the citizens said that...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7445	Ambassador, please, about the amendment. That's clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7446	It's absolutely what the citizens think and what most people think in this country, that's clear. I don't think we should waste any more time on that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7447	Thank you. The MPs of the Dveri parliamentary group submitted together to the 40th amendment. You want a word? Bosko Obradović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7448	I am deeply convinced, Madam Chairman, that the Serbian citizens said in the elections -- that we want to be a genocide people. That's why we vote for SNS... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7449	Ambassador, I can't let that happen. These are insults by both the Serb people and by the MPs they voted for. (Bosko Obradović, from town: Let's start over. Shall we start over? Come on.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7450	What would the song "Let's start love over" So, Madam Chairman, distinguished fellow Members of the People's Parliament, erasing this member of the Criminal Code is absolutely necessary for at least two very important reasons. The first is that this is by who knows which way our kneeling before the EU, our EU courting, our EU service, our miserable adaptation to imposed EU regulations, which, by the way, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has never been ashamed of. Under Aleksandra Vukic, the most fantastic government of the Republic of Serbia is from 5 October 2000 to the day. The yellow ones can't, what our people would say, or smell. This is what the Government of the Republic of Serbia says about the refusal of this amendment - the amendment is not accepted because the proposed addition of the Criminal Act, tra-la-la, tra-la-la, represents a alignment with the EU Council Framework Decision, as foreseen as a commitment by the Republic of Serbia in the EU accession process, in line with the Action Plan for the negotiating chapter 23. So this is your responsibility. You made a commitment to this. You are not interested in Serbia's national and state interest. You're interested in meeting the Brussels orders, and what's essential here, you can bring finesse, no, it is, it's given Srebrenica, it's given this, it's given what, you're introducing genocide into Serbian criminal law, and then you're going to expand that space and punish anyone who denies anything of this type, and so does Srebrenica. So, you are introducing something that is unnecessary to Serbian criminal legislation, which is totally anti-constitutional, which threatens freedom of thought of expression and which in any other way simply introduces one crime that will be the subject of manipulation and we are against it as we are against Serbia's entry into the EU, and therefore we are asking that this member be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7451	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7452	Thank you. I'd just like to be precise. This does not introduce a crime - genocide. Genocide as a felony exists from earlier in our Criminal Code. You said we were introducing a crime of genocide. So the genocide has not now been introduced, but exists as a crime before in the context of crimes against humanity and other goods protected by international law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7453	The word has Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7454	Thanks again. My comment earlier on a similar subject, the same subject, of those I thought were really interested in her, sounded like he sounded. Now we hear the same things only much worse packed. I think the only thing that was right was the part that the Amendment Proposer read from this paper and about the Action Plan. That was good. Everything else, what he will say, all that he has said, is that God preserves. I don't think we should respond to the obvious desire that we are now engaged in some big debate here for one reason. The amendment promoter of what he said, and this topic and anything about it, we honestly don't care at all. He doesn't care about that, to be honest. Can't a man who shared a paper with those who pleaded on the Srebrenica genocide. The way they pleaded, that today they claim that something is very sensitive to him, something he cannot accept. He accepted this system of values of horns, nadaladic values, and nothing bothered him. And he cares about that question, as well as anything related to this people, which will tell us how much to last year's snow. He also kindly accepted Franjo Tudjman and his activities towards the Republika Srpska Krajina, and today...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7455	Ambassador, let's go to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7456	... That's right... And since none of this really matters to him, and what would be important to us is that we listen and we debate at all, let alone support his proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7457	Sign up, I can't give you my word. You don't have a card. Well, then it can't hurt the Rules of Procedure. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. (Ivan Kostic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. I can't give you my word. You don't have a card. Well, then it can't hurt the Rules of Procedure. (John Kostic, from the place: The card, there it is, there it is, please the word. You asked for a word. You haven't been reported, and you can't do that either. The word is Bosko Obradović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7458	This is a replica? Is that how Mrs. Chairman is? Thank you. Therefore, it is difficult to measure the situation of the Eurofanatism of the SNS and the situation of willingness to sacrifice Serbia's national state interest for Serbia's devastating path to the EU. What is important here and this is a great day for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to hear the voices of the Euro-Sceptic opposition and that after so much time in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia you cannot sing your unanimous chorus of Eurofanatism. The citizens of Serbia certainly have the opportunity to hear about some different thought from you, those who think the EU is not our priority, that we no longer have any interest in going to the EU at all costs and that we will not, I repeat, do not fulfil the order from Brussels that you have been fulfilling since they brought you to power by congratulating Tomislav Nikolic three hours before closing the voter's victory in the second round of presidential elections. You, gentlemen of progressors, have an obligation to Brussels. Not only do you introduce crimes – denial of genocide. You have a number of other obligations because they brought you into power, so now you have to pay what they brought you to power. So that's what your problem is, what you have right now is very big, to say, the difficulty of hearing someone who says and thinks differently from you, who says -- wait so that Eurofanatism is overcome in the EU, so the EU is no longer Eurofanatic. You are the last Eurofanatics left in Europe. As we were once the last Yugoslav and last communists, we Serbs today do not understand political changes. You are the advancers of the last Eurofanatics in Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7459	Thank you. (Alexander Martinovic and Vladimir Orlic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Make a deal on who's gonna go first. It's just, I'm making a deal with the minister. The two of us want to work on the amendments. We'll give you a little more replica, and then we'll break up. We don't want to be cool here for discussion to anyone. So I'll give you more replicas now if you want us to finish the law. If you won't, I honestly won't be any more cool. Neither the minister nor I sit here for hours and listen to something that has nothing to do with the subject. Here you go. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7460	Article 107, Mrs. Gojkovic. It is a shame to say in the National Assembly that SNS and SNS deputies have brought to power anyone but Serbian citizens. As for the previous speaker, he loves the Serbian people and Serbia so much that he took a picture here the other day with one of the Croatian Parliament MPs, who said among other things – the course of the "Storms" in the Krajina area was gone 200 thousand Serbs...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7461	Ambassador, a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7462	... with ethnic cleansing directed by the Serbian leadership. I'm the only person...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7463	Ambassador, a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7464	... Yes, yes, I'm the only person from Croatia that Serbs call on to speak freely on their television. For those who don't believe that...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7465	Ambassador, a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7466	... invites Serbs to evacuate i.e. leaving your homes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7467	Ambassador, you can't hear yourself. First, you covered the microphone with papers. Please at least about the microphone so I can follow. I can't track anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7468	Let me finish. Here's a microphone. So, the gentleman who used to speak to us and who taught us a lesson about patriotism boasts that he is friends with a man who says these words - for those who don't believe... (DJB's emissaries are getting it. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7469	I can't yell at the injuries of the Rules of Procedure about the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7470	We're talking about a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. For those who do not believe that Serbian leaders have invited Serbs to evacuate, i.e. abandoning their homes, leading to the disappearance of Serbs from the Krajina area, i.e. ethnic cleansing, the Croatian army did not banish those people. They just ran away...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7471	Ambassador, who said that? I don't understand who said that. I'm serious. I don't understand. You say a member of the 107th violation of the Rules of Procedure, a violation of dignity, but I don't know who said that. Alexandar Martinovich, what? It's a violation of dignity. This is what Ivan Pernar, a friend of Bosko Obradovic, said. Okay, but we can't talk about it right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7473	We have to talk about it, Mrs. Gojkovic, because I can't let it fall on the SNS that brought us to power, and I don't know who...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7474	Absolutely, just please look for a replica. Don't ask me to hurt the Rules of Procedure. I certainly do not approve of Bosko Obradovic's speech.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7475	Can I get a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7476	You have to take this. This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Vladimir Orlic answered the line, so you completely confused me, but it can't hurt the Rules of Procedure. I really don't break the Rules of Procedure in anything. Just wait. I'll take a break first. I swore I couldn't survive another Friday. I'll do anything to make me go away and take five minutes off because I really can't let this turn into a rerun again. Replays are usually a terribly boring thing. [[after breaks]] Members of the 42nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Organization and Jurisdiction of State Organs in the Suppression of Organized Crime, Terrorism and Corruption The National MPs of Rade, Petar Jojic and Zoran Krasic jointly submitted the amendments to the 4th Amendment. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7478	Article 4 The bill speaks of state authorities responsible for handling cases of organised crime and terrorism. The promoter listed here as acting in criminal cases from a previous member who is all competent authorities. There's the prosecution, organized crime, the M.O.P., the special court department, the Court of Appeal and a special detention unit. Here you have completed everything related to these state bodies, and we suggest that Article 2 is added to this article, which would say that the judges and prosecutors of this position are acting in the cases referred to in Article 3 of this Law, that they must possess a certificate of completed training for the control of organised crime, terrorism and corruption. It is not clear to us how you may not have accepted this amendment, when we spoke earlier, or about the first law, about domestic violence. Then you made me not know how many of those groups, special training organizations, etc. We think something like this should be done for these five groups who will be in charge as state authorities for the crimes of organised crime and terrorism. We think that if you really want this job to be done, and you really need to stop and organised crime on the road and you need to stop, of course, thank God, there's no terrorism at all, and we hope that there won't be any, but organized crime there is also how and organized crime really needs to be dealt with seriously trained people, teams of people. When it comes to organized crime, I have to ask, I do it regularly, Attorney General Zagorko Dolovac, why are some...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7479	You've wasted your time with the MPs' group, thank you. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Nogo, Bosko Obradović, Dr Dragan Vesovic, Marija Janjusevic, Mr Ivan Kostic and Zoran Radojić. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7480	It is indeed a big historic thing for Serbia that after five years, the government is moving to fight crime and corruption, it is such a big event. Indeed, all of us here today express our great joy that one of the most important pre-election promises of the SNS may be on the agenda after five years of their rule. In the fifth year of office, therefore, they decided to pass a law on the organisation of the authority of state authorities in the repression of organised crime, terrorism and corruption, which means that perhaps in the next five years, somewhere up to the age of ten the government has passed a law on the origin of all politicians and tycoons from 1990 to today, which they also promised, if not, to come on the agenda. Of course, we support the fight against crime and corruption and, therefore, we wanted this amendment to further specify the conditions that each person must meet to elect the prosecutor, or the deputy prosecutor, and in this way, we hope, could reduce the possibility of abuse and party election of prosecutors, as well as nepotism, and reduce them to the least possible extent. So somewhere there is a problem in the fight against crime and corruption in Serbia. Is that a problem with prosecutors, is that a problem with courts, is that a problem with the police? What's the problem? How is it possible that within five years, the SNS authorities don't have one judicial verdict where a multi-annual slave in prison would finally end up with someone who robbed Serbia in the past 26 years? That's really amazing, five years without a single judicial verdict. Those who robbed us in the past 26 years are still at large, not in prison, and I believe that there is no fight against crime and corruption by the SNS, but that it is one big media propaganda.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7481	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7482	The right to a replica of Madam President, to mention the party and, as was the interesting thesis, after five years of fighting organised crime, terrorism and corruption. Of course, this finding can only be allowed by someone who knows nothing about the area in question because someone who at least knows something would not allow himself to be embarrassed in front of the public, among other things, and because it is very simple. It is enough to come to a competent assembly committee once when it is debated exactly the results achieved in these areas, so that one who is very interested in learning something that the results in this area are from quarter to quarter all the time that SNS is taking care of this country and this people better. That's what someone who takes the work of a MP seriously does. One who just wants to talk that later would admire himself in a mounted video clip, he does it as a man who keeps giving me two minutes of free time, which is very nice and kind on his part and I’m very happy to respond to the opportunity to explain to him in two minutes how much I don’t know. The question of the origin of the property is coming to the agenda. Don't worry, he'll be here very soon. But it is not bad to remember that universal wisdom – take care of what you want, it may come true for you. Something seems to me to me that at the moment the measures in that area take effect, the one who calls on them so loudly will suddenly run out of appropriate financial resources by those who finance it. So what do we do? Will they criticise their brains, the way they are, or the SNS? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7483	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7484	So, I have very well-intentioned the avoidance which for the fifth year in a row has been carrying out by the SNS to pass one of the most important laws that stands in the Serbian Movement of the Dvera programme since our entry into politics more than five years ago, and this is the Law on the investigation of the origin of all politicians and tycoon from 1990 to today, with the associated confiscation of property acquired by crime, abuse of official status and all other types of corruption at the highest state level. I can't understand that you still have the courage to say here – here, only he didn't enter the Assembly procedure of the Law on the Investigation of Origin of Property, after five years of your announcement that you would bring it. So that's just talking about that political futurism that's actually the essence of SNS policy -- it's just that here we're working on it for two to two and a half years, only, here, it didn't come to a better life, to the passing of that and that law, to this and that. So we have very precisely pointed out, without that law, there can be no fundamental shifts in such legal matters as you are making here, which we support from the point of view that it is really necessary to finally trace this key issue of why there is no fight against crime and corruption, why there are no judicial verdicts, why there are no prisoners who are on years of imprisonment because they robbed Serbia in the previous 26 years. Not that there aren't any, but there's not one. I ask the minister of justice to deny me, to give me an example of a convict at this time in Serbia who lies on years of imprisonment on the basis of a judicial verdict because of bribery and corruption or in any other way he has robbed and damaged Serbia in the past 26 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7485	Thank you. Let's you answer the question, and we'll finish the debate tonight. I think it's a mature condition for us to rest.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7486	There is no problem, Madam President, when they are in such a hurry to hear a certain opinion, it is not disputed to hear it, they will hear it every time, a question of some courage. I'm really sorry that someone feels like a problem that we're not afraid of someone. Honestly, we've got nothing. So, empty words and stories -- there's no such thing, there's no such thing as that -- so maybe there's not as much as no new results, when it comes to fighting crime, if whoever keeps insisting here on some completely missed subjects and empty stories knew that he's telling us how to move, for example, the crime rate in this country, from the quarter, years back, so that we have something to talk about. I'm saying, he doesn't know. I'm saying, he doesn't know, because I listen to him speak. Once again, that luxury can only be allowed by someone who is absolutely unburdened by ignorance. He can try to be loud, yet I don't mind, even in the spirit of one universal wisdom again that the more empty the cup, the more it sounds. But if he knew anything, for example. on this crime rate or on corruption, he would know that precisely thanks to the SNS, this majority and this Serbian government, it is becoming smaller and smaller over time, it is a trend, it is continuity, as a result. Fighting corruption is something that has been established by the relevant public again, both domestic and foreign, both east and west, as something that stands better than it has ever been. The better it is than it was at the time of those with whom this loud man would make a coalition, but no one will, even though he's offered politely, it might just be his problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-22-0.u7487	The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Enis Imamovic, Natasa Micic, Dr Zarko Korac, Nenad Milic and Bajro Gegic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. This is where we'd finish tonight's work. We'll be back tomorrow at 11.00. I've consulted with the minister, he has certain obligations, and at 11.00 we'll continue to discuss the amendments when we're a little more rested.
