ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u47934	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the Second Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that 95 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 129 MPs are present in the hall and we have working conditions. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Borisav Kovacevic, Dejan Radenkovic, Djordje Cabarkapa and Vladimir Marinkovic. After the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of the National Assembly MP for the vacant parliamentary seat, in order to enable him to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been given a decision by the Republic Election Commission on the allocation of the MP's mandate to complete the vacant parliamentary seat in the National Assembly. Also, you have been presented with a report by the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, which has established that the conditions for confirming the mandate of the MP have been met, with a proposal that the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 27(5). The Law on the Selection of People's MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Slobodan Velickovic, elected from the electoral list Ivica Dacic - the Socialist Party of Serbia, the United Pensioners of Serbia and Unity of Serbia. On the basis of the decision of the RIK and the report and the proposal of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, and in accordance with Article 27(5) thereof. Law on the election of MPs, I would like to confirm the mandate of MP Slobodan Veličković and congratulate him on the election. Dear People's MP, please agree to Article 17. The Law on the National Assembly, approach the oath. (The President reads the text of the oath, and the People's Messenger repeats it. ) "I swear to defend the duty of the civil servant in a committed, fair, conscientious and faithful constitution, to defend human and mankind rights and civil freedoms and by my best knowledge and to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice." I ask the MP to approach the signing of the text of the oath. Let me wish you, on behalf of me and the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, successful joint work in the current term. Congratulations. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with the meeting of the Second Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly in 2016, you were also sent a request to hold an extraordinary session of the National Assembly with a certain agenda contained in that request. As you could see, for the session of the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in 2016, the following agenda was set: Proposal for a law on international restrictive measures; 2. Proposal for a law confirming the European Framework Convention on Cross-border Cooperation between Territorial Communities or Authorities; 3. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Lebanon on the abolition of visas for holders of diplomatic special and official passports; 4. A proposal for a sports law. National MP Maja Gojkovic has proposed that a joint principle and uniform search be carried out on the draft law on international restrictive measures, a bill on the validation of the European Framework Convention on Cross-border Cooperation between Territorial Communities or Authorities and a proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Lebanon on the abolition of visas for holders of diplomatic special and official passports. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 134, no one, with abstentions, voted 16 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. We're going to work on the agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I inform you that they have been invited to attend today's session: First Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic, Assistant Foreign Minister Dragan Momčilović, Ambassador Branimir Filipovic, Deputy Foreign Minister Ljiljan Zarubica, Head of the Department of Foreign Affairs and Ambassador Branka Latinovic, Vladan Lazovic and Aleksandar Tasic, Head of the Department of Foreign Affairs. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. Pursuant to Article 157(2) and to Article 170. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a joint principled single search on: Proposal for a Law on International Limitation Measures, Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of a European Framework Convention on Cross-border Cooperation between Territorial Communities or Authorities and Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Lebanon on the Elimination of Visas for holders of diplomatic special and official passports. Does the proposal's representative, first Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic want the word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u47935	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, are now on the agenda of the National Assembly three legislative proposals. Let me explain them. The draft law on international restrictive measures, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia established on 11 June 2015 and submitted to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption, is the result of the basic preparations for the start of its production, as well as the dedicated and professional work of experts from the competent ministries and other institutions of the Republic of Serbia who were engaged in writing this legislative proposal. The whole process was co-ordinated by the foreign ministry, as it is one of the major international obligations. The government proposes that the law be passed to define the legal basis, as well as to establish procedures for applying UN Security Council resolutions that introduce international restrictive measures. The law also refers to the measures Serbia introduces, implements or abolishes on the basis of legal acts of European security and co-operation organisations, as well as other international organisations that commit Serbia. These are measures applied to countries, non-state actors, various terrorist organisations, entities and other entities, legal and physical persons, and their aim is to establish and maintain international peace and security, respect for international humanitarian law, human rights and fundamental freedoms and to implement other international obligations. The new international standards require that the area implement international restrictive measures or restrictive measures is regulated by law, and their adoption in the capacity to comply with the international obligation of the Republic of Serbia to adopt a legal basis to regulate the procedure for applying international restrictive measures, strengthens it at national level to respond to new international standards concerning the implementation of UN resolutions and decisions of other international organisations whose Serbia is or is in its special foreign-political interest, to improve its institutional, human and administrative capacity to implement this international obligation and, ultimately, to fulfil one of the obligations of Chapter 31, which is called - foreign, security and defence policy in the negotiating process with the EU. This law proposes establishing a legal basis, defining the procedures and acts that the Republic of Serbia needs to adopt in order to meet international obligations in a timely and responsible manner under the restrictive measures system. Serbia has, in all due time, consistently and responsibly fulfilled the obligations arising from the United Nations Security Council resolutions, which introduce these measures, which may be economical or other measures, such as the ban on arms trafficking and dual-purpose goods, the ban on travel to certain persons, the financial measures relating to the ban on the availability of financial resources or business with certain persons, companies, as well as other measures. The application of these measures is regulated by the government act. By passing this law, with the adoption of the Export and Import Act of Double Purpose in 2013 and the Law on Exporting and Importing of Arms and Military Equipment of 2014, the Republic of Serbia will, in general, have another legal instrument to apply in the best way its obligations under the United Nations arms trade treaty, which has ratified this Assembly on 29 October 2014, and thus this international contract for us entered into force on 24 December 2014. Also, by passing the law, Serbia fulfils the obligation to harmonize its system with the legal assets of the European Union in Chapter 31. - Foreign security and defence policies. It is the only legal proposal whose adoption remains in the national programme for the adoption of legal fluids of the European Union, and when it comes to Chapter 31. The measures and activities that the United Nations can take to preserve, namely the establishment of international peace and security are defined in the Charter of the United Nations Chapter VII. I note that for the first time, the League of People's Pact provided for the possibility of introducing international economic and military sanctions, by making recommendations without the obligation to apply. The United Nations has just provided for the powers of the Security Council defined in Chapter VII of the Charter and established the imperative of international restrictive measures. In accordance with Article 39. The Charter – in cases of threat of peace, breach of peace or act of aggression, the Security Council may recommend and decide to introduce the measures to be adopted in accordance with Articles 41 and 42. The Charter of the United Nations, aimed at maintaining or establishing international peace and security. Therefore, there is no possibility that a Member State of the United Nations may refuse to implement them. I would remind you of this opportunity that the United Nations has crossed since 1994, instead of comprehensive sanctions, to introduce so-called. targeted sanctions most often consist of, in addition to the ban on arms and dual-use goods exports, from the ban on individual travel, the freezing of financial resources, the ban on exporting of certain types of goods and resources, such as diamonds, gold, oil and others. As for the number of countries, as well as the type of restrictive measures imposed by the United Nations, the number of countries to which such measures have been introduced has increased significantly since the end of the Cold War. Since then, different restrictive measures have been imposed against 27 countries. According to one number of these States, the Security Council has abolished the measures and one number of those measures have been abolished, suspended or amended in another way, with the obligation to obtain the approval of the competent committee of the United Nations for the application of sanctions on all intended activities towards the State concerned. Compared to the United Nations list of countries, which has been sent to you in the light of this law, the same should be added to the new resolutions adopted by the Security Council during the course of this year by Resolution 2199 on ISIL and 2140 on Yemen. The procedure for implementing obligations under Resolution 2253 was adopted on 17 December last year, strengthening the sanctions regime to prevent ISIL financing and other terrorist groups. Security Council Resolution 2253 was adopted on an initiative by the United States and the Russian Federation, with a co-sponsored by 68 states, including the Republic of Serbia. Its goal is to further prevent the financing of ISIL and other terrorist groups through strengthening the restrictive measures set up by Resolutions 1267, 1989 and 2199, and to contribute decisively to the prevention and eradication of all forms of terrorism and extremism. The list of countries under the sanctions of the United Nations also includes the Islamic Republic of Iran. After a joint, comprehensive action plan was adopted in Vienna on 14 July 2015, i.e. the Iranian Nuclear Programme Agreement, the United Nations Security Council adopted Resolution 2231 on 20 July 2015 laying down the process of abolishing the sanctions of the United Nations against this country. On 16 January this year, the Security Council found that Iran had met the conditions for starting its application. days of implementation. Conditions for the start of application of Resolution 2231 have been created and thus economic sanctions have been lifted for Iran, but with certain exceptions retained, as well as deadlines in which these measures remain in force. The area of export and arms control or strategically controlled goods has changed significantly in the last decade, with the definition of new obligations, principles and criteria in order to meet the new security challenges facing the international community, and with regard to threats of terrorism, cross-border crime and other modern threats. This includes, in particular, challenges relating to the establishment of appropriate mechanisms to prevent illegal arms trafficking, which are now taking on worrying exchanges in the world. The established standards and procedures of the United Nations, as well as the practice of the largest number of members of the United Nations, with regard to the application of relevant Security Council resolutions introducing a certain type of sanctions against one of the members, require that each member of the United Nations submit a report on the introduction and application of measures taken on the national plan concerning the application of relevant Security Council resolutions. Taking into account the number of resolutions, i.e. the countries under the restrictive measures imposed by the United Nations, as well as the size of the transactions to monitor their application on the national plan, created the need for this area to be regulated legally. In that sense, the bill before you confirms the full commitment of the Republic of Serbia to respect international obligations and to establish national procedures for the application of these measures. Otherwise, this legislative proposal is a lex specialis, which will also apply to the Export and Import Act of Arms and Military Equipment, the Export and Import Act of dual-use goods and other laws in this area. This law will also contribute to a more adequate application under Article 384 of the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia, which, in cases of non-compliance with international restrictive measures imposed by international organisations, whose Serbia is a member, prescribes appropriate criminal measures if there is material damage to Serbia or harmful consequences for its reputation or interest. Finally, I would like to point out that the obligations, which arise from the introduction of international restrictive measures, require each country to continue to develop its own capacity for their application, which means trained staff, the possession of technical means, and the establishment of good communication with the Security Council Sanctions Committees, their panels, as well as Interpol, the International Customs Organisation and other countries in the region and other partners. Ladies and gentlemen, it is in front of you and the draft law on the validation of the European Framework Convention on Cross-border Cooperation between Territorial Communities or the Government of the so-called "The European Framework Convention". The Madrid Convention. It belongs to the international legal instruments of the Council of Europe, which makes its confirmation by Serbia, as members of the Council of Europe, important from the point of view of meeting international obligations. The Madrid Convention opened for signing on 21 May 1980 and entered into force on 22 December 1981. So far it has been signed by 41 countries, including Serbia, of which 38 countries have ratified it from a total of 47 members of the Council of Europe. The Madrid Convention was not joined by Andorra, Estonia, Greece, San Marino, Macedonia and the UK. While Iceland and Malta signed it without ratification. The Madrid Convention aims to promote the co-operation of local and regional authorities among states signatories through the conclusion of an Agreement on cross-border co-operation, with a view to improving economic co-operation, regional development, urban and rural development, transport, tourism, environmental protection, culture and mutual assistance in emergency situations. The Convention relies on past experiences that show that co-operation between local and regional authorities in Europe facilitates their functioning and performance of their tasks, as well as contributes to efficiency in the development of border regions. The convention affirms the kind of co-operation in a spirit that unites the peoples of Europe. In a formal legal sense, the forms of cross-border co-operation and territorial communities or the authorities provided for in the Madrid Convention essentially correspond to and corresponds to the models of co-operation between regional and local authorities arising from EU membership. Serbia signed a convention with a statement stressing that the conclusion of a contract and agreement by territorial units or authorities regarding the application of the Madrid Convention is the only one that has international legal capacity. This avoids any interpretation of the provisions of the Convention regarding international legal entity, territorial units of signatories, i.e. It is clearly understood that the state is the only bearer of it. On these and similar statements, Italy, Spain, Slovakia, Georgia and Azerbaijan decided to hand over ratification instruments. Finally, there is also a bill before you to confirm the Agreement between the Government of Serbia and the Government of Lebanon on the abolition of visas for holders of diplomatic, special and official passports. This is just one of the draft laws in our quest to have signed visa waiver agreements with as many countries in the world. It is always the first step along the way to lift visas for holders of diplomatic and official passports. We don't have special passports, but some countries do, so that category must also be covered by such a proposal for an agreement. Today, citizens of the Republic of Serbia can travel without visas to more than 60 countries in the world. Our goal is to expand this number as much as possible, of course, with all restrictive measures that involve, above all, the problem of security, the fight against terrorism, illegal migration, etc. When it comes to Lebanon, I would especially like to stress that this is a friendly country which has shown its friendship in the vote when it comes to the most important issues for Serbia. For example, at the UNESCO General Conference, Lebanon voted against Kosovo's entry into UNESCO, which, of course, we are very grateful to them and therefore I call on you to accept this bill. All in all, I sincerely hope that MPs of the National Assembly at this extraordinary session will pass these laws in the proposed text. All these laws aim to strengthen credibility and international reputation of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u47936	Thank you. Do the committees want the word? (No) The first speaker, Balint Pastor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u47937	Madam President, Mr. First Vice-President of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SVM Group will support these three draft laws on the agenda of the National Assembly's extraordinary session today. I would like to discuss a more detailed agreement, more specifically, on the draft law on the validation of the European Framework Convention on cross-border co-operation between territorial communities or authorities. There is usually no big debate here in the National Assembly on agreements, conventions, and yet we believe that it is a very important convention that will bring about some very positive changes in the future in practice. It's a document from the Council of Europe. You said, sir, the first Deputy Prime Minister that she was open to signing in 1980, was completed with three additional protocols and signed by a total of 41 countries, a member of the Council of Europe, to this day, from 47. On the other hand, there is one EU instrument, which is European partnerships or groupings for territorial co-operation, so-called "the European Union". EGTC. They are an EU instrument, not the Council of Europe, but we believe that the Madrid Convention can serve as a legal basis for the participation of local self-government in the interregional co-operation of the EGTC between EU member states or the Council of Europe. The principles of functioning of the EGTC are directly inspired and stemming from the Madrid Convention and its protocols, the EU has created several models of territorial co-operation mechanisms. Among others, she adopted the EGTC Regulation in 2006. The aim of the establishment of the EGTC was to facilitate and promote cross-border co-operation between members with particular emphasis on strengthening economic and social cohesion. The formation of the EGTC creates a legal framework for cross-border and inter-regional co-operation, and an EGTC founding act allows local self-government from third countries to be included in cross-border co-operation projects. So, not an EU member. To return to the Madrid Convention, since joining the Council of Europe in 2003, Serbia has assumed the obligation to ratify a number of documents, including the Madrid Convention. It is important because the preamble of this Convention mentions regional, urban, rural development, environmental protection, improvement of public relief and services and mutual assistance in emergency situations. So it is about practical goals, the objectives of which are improving for citizens of the member states of the Council of Europe, including the Republic of Serbia. This Convention is also a framework for establishing and strengthening bilateral and trilateral forms of co-operation. Article 1 of this European Framework Convention states that each Contracting Party will facilitate and foster cross-border co-operation between territorial communities, I think these objectives are in the interest of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. One of the foundations of the Madrid Convention is the principle of subsidiarity, the principle of course knows the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as it has been applied in practice since 2006, when the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has been adopted, but we hope that it will meet the conditions for decisions to be made in the future as close as possible to the citizens. So what can be solved at the level of the local self-government unit should be solved at that level. What can be solved at the level of the AP Vojvodina should be solved there. Of course, there are certain jobs, competences, decisions to be made at national level, at the level of the Republic of Serbia. What importance does European legislation attach to the principle of subsidiarity is seen by the fact that it is defined by Article 5. The Lisbon Treaty and that the Lisbon Treaty mentions it at least 30 times. Also, 70% of the EU's regulation concerns the region's problems, even regional development and descent, bringing the decision-making process closer to the citizens. As I said, the Madrid Convention aims to promote the co-operation of local and regional authorities among states signatories through the conclusion of an agreement on cross-border co-operation, to improve economic co-operation, regional development, urban and rural development, transport, tourism, environmental protection, culture, education and mutual assistance in emergency situations. What is important is that this Convention also contains concrete model agreements. Two models specifically. The first model refers to the improvement of pro-co-border co-operation which falls exclusively within the competence of the States, while the second model defines the legal framework for the conclusion of an agreement between territorial authorities or communities within the limits of their international legal capacity. It is important to point out that the Republic of Serbia has signed this convention, which will be ratified within days with a statement stressing that only the Republic of Serbia has an international and legal subjectivity or capacity. There is an open question, does this statement in practice mean that any future agreement on cross-border co-operation between territorial authorities will mean that the Government of the Republic of Serbia approves it in the form of a previous bilateral agreement with the Government of another country? I believe that this stems from this statement that the Republic of Serbia made when signing this European Framework Convention, and this will in practice mean a preliminary conclusion of an agreement with other Member States -- as a first option or as a second option -- the express consent of the Government of the Signatory States to agreements that territorial authorities will conclude with the territorial authorities of other Member States, the signatories of this European Convention. What is most important to us is, and I did not accidentally mention "egtc", regardless of what the EU instrument is and not the Council of Europe, it is that by ratifying this Convention a legal basis is created for the full membership of our municipalities in "egtc". And now I would like to talk about practice, and now I would like to talk about connecting municipalities from the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Romania and Hungary. It is about the integration that exists in the formal sense since 2009, but because there was no legal basis for municipalities from the Republic of Serbia to be a partner in formal and legal terms to local self-governments from the two states mentioned, our local self-government could only be observers, leading to certain shortcomings in the sense that citizens of RS, residents, residents of these municipalities could not profit in the most positive sense from connecting local self-government from the three countries. This is the case of the Banat Triplex Confinium egtc. The formation of "Banat Triplex Confinium egtc" began with a meeting of 50 city leaders and municipalities from three groups of Hungary, Romania and Serbia border municipalities. In particular, the municipalities of the northern AP Vojvodina of Backa and Banat and these municipalities decided on 17 June 2009 to form a tripartite cross-border "Banat Triplex confinium egtc". Eight of our municipalities, eight municipalities from the RS addressed the Serbian government in 2009 and those municipalities met the competent authorities on their intention to participate in the "Banat Triplex Confinium egtc", but the application of local authorities was first rejected by the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government in September 2009, and then by the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights in May 2011. In the explanation of both ministries as the main reason for refusal, it is stated that our legal system and the legal system of RS does not allow local self-governments to participate in such a type of cross-border co-operation, also that Serbia does not have signed bilateral agreements with EU members and that national legislation does not regulate the participation of local self-governments in "egtc". This situation will change now that it will be ratified in this esteemed home by this European Framework Convention. The mentioned Vojvodina municipalities decided to participate as observers until the ratification of the Madrid Convention in this project. The founding act also noted that the lack of bilateral agreements between Serbia and Hungary and Romania restricts cross-border co-operation models, and that it slows down development in cross-border municipalities. It is necessary for Serbia to adopt a regulation compatible with the Madrid Convention, which will establish the right of local authorities to participate in these projects, but also to provide adequate financial resources necessary for the implementation of cross-border co-operation. What we expect from the ratification of the Madrid Framework Convention is that these local self-governments that tried to form together with local self-governments from Hungary and Romania "Banat Triplex Confinium egtc" become full members of the grouping of local self-government and cross-border co-operation. It is only unclear whether a special law will be passed on the basis of this European convention that will become part of our legal system or will be applied directly and it will only be necessary for the Government to agree on cross-border co-operation and our local self-government, municipalities and cities from the Republic of Serbia. I also want to say that it is part of our coalition agreement with the SNS that until the opening of the negotiations on Chapter 22 – regional policy and the coordination of structural instruments, it will pass a law establishing a legal framework for the participation of RS-based entities and the establishment and operation of European partnerships for territorial co-operation "egtc". This will happen in a few days by ratification of the Madrid Convention. Once again, it is a single agreement that will also bring about an improvement in practice for the citizens of RS. It is practical matters, and we will support the other two draft laws at the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u47938	The word has a folk MP, Dr Ninoslav Stojadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u47939	Dear Mrs. Gojkovic, the Honorable Minister Dacic, with his associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, today we have this set of three laws in the field of foreign affairs, which we will discuss. As the minister explained, the first law on international restrictive measures is the second to confirm the European Framework Convention on Cross-border Co-operation and the last, these are the usual laws on the validation of the Agreement this time between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Lebanon on the abolition of visas for holders of diplomatic and service passports, of course, and special passports are also mentioned here. Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues are rare opportunities for us to discuss issues related to our country's foreign policy in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and there are few opportunities for these laws to explain and defend Minister Dacic, so I would like to take the opportunity to express my satisfaction because he is with us this time in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. However, I would rather have the Foreign Affairs Act on the agenda, which was so pompously announced at the time when Mr Dacic was prime minister and Mr Mrkic, I suppose, was his last name, Foreign Minister, also, a report on work in the previous year of the ministry, foreign policy priorities for this year. Of course, I'd also like to hear the fate of our hijacked embassy officers in Tripoli, as long as they've arrived with the competitions to appoint the assistant minister, what about the deployment of missing ambassadors, etc., but what's there? I'm gonna focus on what's on the agenda. I'll start with the last law, the Act of Confirmation of the Agreement between our governments on visa waiver for official and diplomatic passports. As the minister said, this is only one in a series of laws that facilitates the activities of our diplomatic representatives and members of the government, so these international activities are much simpler if visas are not needed, so the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDP, ZZS, ZS will support this law. As regards the second draft law confirming the European Framework Convention on Cross-border Cooperation between Territorial Communities or Authorities, it has been said that this is about the last formal commitment of our country, the Republic of Serbia, to the Council of Europe, which is actually the accession of the Madrid Convention. It is no coincidence that of the 47 members 41, she signed the Madrid Convention, of course including our country, of which only 38 countries have so far ratified. We were not ratified by the Iceland and Malta Madrid Convention. I wouldn't look back at these countries that didn't sign, I'll look back at countries that signed the Convention in the same way as we did, with a statement to shed light on that part of the problem that isn't for underestimation. It should be noted here that at first glance, it is not only at first sight, it is defacto, this is parallelism, duplication of some decisions, because all of this is foreseen by politics and EU membership. However, there is one problem, these are models that conclude an agreement between territorial communities and authorities in line with the Madrid Convention, which is why our country had to sign this Convention with a statement, an explicit statement that international legal capacity has the only Republic of Serbia. In this way, I would add little to the explanation of Minister Dacic, avoiding any unwanted interpretations in the work of the Convention regarding an international legal entity, the territorial units of the signatories, which is crystal clear when we say which countries, as we do, signed this with a statement. It is Italy, Spain, Slovakia, Georgia, Azerbaijan, which have similar problems as we do, with aspirations with the independence of certain provinces, regions and the like. With that in mind, no one's said so far, I'm just going to say what that statement is, what this international-legal capacity is. If two territorial units in two signatories want to sign an agreement on cross-border co-operation there are two options – or that our country has already signed an agreement with another country, if that is not the case, this agreement that needs to be signed between the two territorial units must be agreed by our government and there is nothing unclear there, everything is crystal clear. After all, we are witnessing that the AP Vojvodina participates in many initiatives. Something is resolved by the Constitution of our country, the Statute of the AP, and some things for other territorial units must have the consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Our only objection, if I may say so, to this bill is that he could have arrived early at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and, of course, our MP group Boris Tadic – SDP, the ZZS, the ZS will be happy to support this law as well. We have come to the first law and most importantly – the draft law on international restrictive measures, which prescribes the procedure for implementing international restrictive measures which the Republic of Serbia, now paraphrasing, implements on the basis of legal acts adopted by the UN Security Council, we have some experience with these measures, the OSCE, as well as other international organisations whose Republic of Serbia is a member and whose statements we join in accordance with our foreign-political priorities, which we unfortunately did not adopt for this year in the Assembly. As a reason for the adoption of this law, the Proposer cites the need to bring our legislation in line with the obligation to respect and implement international restrictive measures in accordance with international law, obligations arising from membership, etc. However, it appears that the main reason for its adoption is that by adopting this law, the Republic of Serbia will fulfil one of the obligations set out in the negotiating chapter with the EU, that is chapter 31, which is precisely referred to as "Second Security and Defence Policy", which will, of course, establish a legal framework for the application of international restrictive measures. This is crystal clear and let's say something about these measures applied by the EU. The European Union applies two types of measures. The first type are measures of the UN Security Council, where all countries directly apply Security Council decisions, more specifically Resolutions, Charters, etc. The other type of measure is so-called. Autonomous measures, adopted by the EU Council and also by all EU members directly apply those measures. That is in accordance with Article 215. The Treaty on the Functioning of the EU. We also have individual measures, directives, common positions, etc., and all within the framework of the EU's common foreign and security policy. Someone malicious would ask – why is there no mention of the EU in the bill itself? The UN Security Council is mentioned. The Minister knows that, there's no need to explain it to him. It mentions the OSCE and other international organisations, whose member we are, or we follow their policy. Someone even more malicious would say -- here, they're preparing sanctions against Russia. But I think this part is quite correctly written. It is necessary to separate international organisations whose members we are, which are explicit, which are: the UN, the OSCE and other international organisations, one form and the EU, where we have applied, we have opened negotiations, but we are in the accession process. And this alignment of foreign and security policy should go gradually until we enter the EU. I wouldn't mention deadlines here. It is quite uncertain, given what is happening in the EU and in the world at all. In my opinion, this is an explanation of why the EU does not appear explicitly, but this law also provides for the possibility of some of the EU's restrictive measures being applied. And when some accuse us or criticise us that we cannot sit on two chairs, that we must agree on foreign policy with the EU – yes, but it is a process that is ongoing and that will end that day, one minute and one second before our entry into the EU. By the way, I don't know if over 70-80% of the EU's foreign policy has already been brought into line with our foreign policy, so that these objections are absolutely not standing. The promoter, which the minister reiterated, cites in the explanation the list of countries, groups, terrorist groups that are on the list and to which these measures are being implemented, to say the people, perhaps the people will understand us better, to translate the Serbian into Serbian -- those are the sanctions we talked so much about in the past. Both Darfur and Libya and everything else are listed. I think that, correctness for the sake of it, from the pitets to the people who had big problems, those babies from Banja Luka, and what I know who else got hurt, should have said that our country, under a different name, was on the verge of these measures, to re-translate from the Serbian to the Serbian, at the impact of sanctions, the Security Council resolution, who wants to nod, to look up, but we were hit by these measures. I'm saying again, correctness works, that should have been stated in an explanation. Since this is a very important and serious law, Mr. Becic, respected Minister Dacic, with very nervous associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, we have made an effort to fix not so much more essentially, there are several essential members around the EU, but quite technically this law, by preparing 14 amendments. We would like some of our amendments to be adopted, but we will not condition the Minister, the Ministry and the Government, that we will vote if only if our amendments are adopted. Given the importance of this law, we will vote "yes", regardless of the outcome of our amendments, but, again, we would be pleased and would like to adopt some of our amendments. Once again, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u47940	I thank you, Mr. Stojadinovic. The word has the president of the parliamentary group, Dr. Suleyman Ugljanin. Here you go, Mr. Ugljanin.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u47941	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, members of the Government today, I will speak a little bit from the aspect of the Law on Confirmation of the European Framework Convention on Cross-border Co-operation between Territorial Units of Communities and Authorities. This is a very important day for us as a country and a significant document, because of the fact that we are a multinational country with many regional communities, which are mostly on the periphery of our country and are mainly underdeveloped environments. I will speak from the perspective of our country's European path, our desire to become a member of the EU, at the same time in the context of and redefinition of Serbia's political system, and all in the context of the possibility of this European Convention on Cross-border Co-operation being applied in practice. Our goal is to make on our European path many fundamental changes, not to make only Podokin's villages. When we talk about the European path, it's only about the state, what the state is going to get, what funds and how much someone is going to blackmail the state, which is going to blackmail the state to get some funding. The adoption of this European Framework Convention creates a legal basis for both regions, i.e. municipalities and communities of municipalities to report in parallel with the state, independently for the use of European funds. Especially because of the fact that the state can be blackmailed by these or those concessions to get some funding, and regional communities and municipalities can't be blackmailed. So we are given one new option, and especially for underdeveloped areas like Sandzak, as well as other undeveloped areas on our country's periphery, that they can use those resources. These are not small European funds. One third of the total European funds are provided for cross-border co-operation. Why am I saying this? I am also speaking to the MPs here, and I am saying that in the voting day, we will support all three of these laws, and we are particularly inspired and motivated to vote in favour of the Law confirming the European Convention on Cross-border Co-operation. For what? Because of the facts, Serbian citizens should know that the EU is not only the political association of some European countries, but at the same time a large family of many people whose homeland is not always within the lines. For this reason, the idea of Europe and the region has a common history, culture, tradition or a common economy has arisen for them. From the aspect of the definition of the cross-border region, the cross-border region, I am saying this because of people in Sandzak and other peripheral regions in our country, that it is any, mostly, minority living in these regions, because the cross-border region means a territorial unit composed of several regional or local authorities that are connected even though they belong to different countries. What does that mean and what is the advantage of this convention? This Convention is important to us especially from this economic aspect. We have the fact that Sandzak makes one territorial historical unit, now we call it northeastern Montenegro or western Serbia, and one or another region is the most underdeveloped in its countries. Why? Because there is a strong limit, and because people in the region live together for centuries in harmony, people of different nationalities, such as Serbs, Bosniaks, Montenegrins and Albanians, different religions, or religious backgrounds, such as Muslims, Catholics and Orthodox people. Both have relatives on the other side of the border, they want to cooperate. However, as you know, if we take the border of Serbia-Montenegro, because of major administrative obstacles, we have a problem that Sanjay producers of milk, dairy products, meat, meat products or those who deal with other kinds of food for days or months should wait to export their goods. Why? Because there was no will on either side, and now there's, on the other hand, from Montenegro, will, we're missing it here. It's a phytosanitary control problem. Because of that so-called. phytosanitary controls and one container where there will be one veterinarian, businessmen, on both sides of the border, sometimes 300 kilometers in circles to sell their goods. This journey collects their goods and makes them uncompetitive. That's why it's important, and that's why I'm happy as a man, and I want to say that to the citizens of Serbia who live on the border, whether they live in the Shop, or to those in Crno Trava, Presevo, Bujanovac, Zajecar, Plandište, Žitište, Novi Crnji, all of them felt what it means when a border crossing opens one day. They all say, just from these three dukes' municipalities -- we earn more in one day, we have more traffic in one day when border crossings are opened than in a month when that crossing is not working. All this I'm saying is that in the context of the redefinition of Serbia's political system, we need to think about decentralisation and regionalisation of our country. Why? Because, as you can see here in Article 1 of this Convention, it is said - signatories are obliged to encourage and encourage cross-border co-operation. This cross-border co-operation is not just a political matter, it is an active life. If there are any major accidents per capita, major fires and diseases, we will not wait for approval to let us pass through some caverns, so we can go shut down next door to Beran, or those from Beran to help people in Tutina or Sjenica. I think this is a good basis for us as humans and can become a generator for the economic development of undeveloped regions and underdeveloped areas of our country. Normally, I expect from our country, especially here, I am pleased that Mr. Dacic, as foreign minister, as an experienced politician, as a powerful and influential man in our country, is present together to work on decentralisation of the state and to adapt that what this says can be done by municipalities and regions. As you know, one of our basic objectives and requirements, both in this Action Plan 23 and in our plan for the redefinition of Serbia's political system, decentralisation and regionalisation, and the issue of Sandzak autonomy, which we keep talking about. We're talking about citizens' rights to political existence in this country. As you yourself have seen, without regional self-government, minority rights cannot be exercised. At the same time, as a MP and as president of a minority parliamentary group made up of ethnic Albanians and Bosniaks from Sandzak, I say that it is necessary that, in accordance with the existing National Minorities Act, this law, whatever bad, unspeakable, is not possible for it to be realized either until the middle level of government is secured. Why? Because in Vojvodina, as you can see for yourself, all minorities achieve the maximum, at least under this law that is today, many minorities from the rest of Serbia are looking for a way to register in Vojvodina so that they can use those benefits. What would they be doing? Is Vojvodina another state? Why can't we in other parts of the state provide regional middle levels of government? As you can see on the screen, SDA Sandzak, for 26 full years, we've been saying the same thing, we live for this day, and I'm very happy, as president of that party, as president of the minority parliamentary group and representative of the Sandzak citizens, that we have experienced this day. In the voting day, we will vote for the adoption of a law confirming the European Framework Convention on Cross-border Co-operation between Territorial Units and Authorities. Thank you for your attention and good luck.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u47942	Thank you, Mr. Ugljanin. The word has been given by MP Mirko Chikiriz, as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr. Chiquiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u47943	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Minister with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SPO will vote for all three of these laws. I will try to say something in the time I have about the important progress of a certain state policy. Progress is also visible with the laws on international restrictive measures, especially the laws on cross-border co-operation. The law with the Republic of Lebanon is important, but it has absolutely no meaning like these previous two laws. For what? We, as a state, had until recently great wandering in our foreign policy and it seems to me that the lack of understanding of relations in the international community and the highest price we have paid as a state and all its citizens. Since there have been countries, as organisations where certain nations live with their system of government, the world's relationship has always reflected on that country, whether it's a big or small country. The Republic of Serbia has never waged conquest wars through its history and mainly had a good foreign policy. However, there were periods of wandering, and, as Mr Stojadinovic said, because of the pitets to all those who were indirect victims, collateral damage, and we were all in some way victims of the United Nations sanctions, today should be said, because it was not long ago, in 1992, the United Nations decision imposed sanctions on the state in which we all lived. I'm not saying that international law was absolutely wrong. There have been various misjudges of the international community, but unfortunately, it seems to us, and this also shows that this policy still depends most on the policy of a particular country. At one time we were both outside Interpol and outside the UN, we were neither members of the Council of Europe, and the EU's majority of politicians who ruled our country in the 1990s were ready to pay for guns or other weapons. Today, great progress has been made in the country's state policy, and it is a great happiness for us, because in the 1990s, in these difficult circumstances, we have fought for everything that is on the agenda today, that today all parliamentary groups in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia support these laws and support one clear policy. On the other hand, it should be fair to say that after 5 October, the country's greatest victories were made in terms of its foreign policy. However, what has been done in terms of economic policy is this one criminal privatisation, one bandit privatisation, one poor economic policy conditioned that we as a state today are where we are. But when I was talking about the progress of certain policies, first of all I was thinking about the policy led by Prime Minister Vukic, because he also in foreign policy and internal economic policy and on the rule of law, the fight against corruption and crime, something we've always advocated. What may be our only objection, as parliamentary groups, because what we think these laws are and should have come to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia earlier, especially the Law on cross-border co-operation, because it is largely about our, to say, direct interest. Of course, it is the interest of the Republic of Serbia to as a reliable and correct partner in international communities to contribute fully to the preservation of international peace and security. We also do so through the adoption of the Law on International Measures of Limits in which we, of course, commit ourselves as well as all other Member States and the UN and the Council of Europe and the OSCE and other international organisations that, as well as other democratic countries, will take certain measures or sanctions towards regimes that threaten both international peace and stability. However, we seem to be, which is why I thought the Law on Cross-border Co-operation should have come to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia earlier, the first chapters on our EU accession negotiations have been opened, which is another major victory for this state policy. However, we as a state and our municipalities, regardless of what we have only administrative regions, and we as a political party advocate to form this middle level of government because of the very fact that there is a huge imbalance in the development of local self-government, that we still have this old Tito model of organization and municipalities and local communities, that we do not have that middle level of government, and that the result of all that is besides being, there is a great imbalance in the economic development of our municipalities and cities, and that is that there is an unconstitutional process of emptying the village, even discharges and cities from undeveloped areas, which endangers both the biological survival of the nation and the security of the country and, in the opinion of the Serbian Academy of Science and Art, is a major danger, because Serbia with 4,200 settlements, if such a demographic process and the dying process of the nation continues for ten years can remain without a single resident in even 1,200 of its villages. What makes cross-border co-operation important, and as part of our accession to EU membership? Well, it is simply that we will already have EU pre-accession funds at our disposal. The European Union, because it is based on a balanced development of all its Member States within the developing countries of the region, municipalities and cities, has allocated as much as one third of its resources to regions, municipalities and cities and territorial organisations. What our citizens need to know, especially the authorities of local self-government, is that they are already hiring professional people to do good projects, to apply, to apply for those funds, because we have experience with other countries that are not fully prepared to welcome this negotiating process, that unfortunately, because of the absence of projects many of the funds that have been obtained from EU pre-accession or accession funds, that country or local self-government units or territorial organisations have not received, simply because they did not have qualified people and quality projects. I think this may be the most important message that we need and those who don't think about it this way to wake us up from sleep and get to this job that's very important. We get grants, we get gifts from the EU, and all we have to do is do quality projects. Although the Law on Cross-border Cooperation, although its source is the Madrid Convention, which was adopted in 1980 and signed in 1981, it was 20, 25 years ago, that's how long it took us, or 35 years, to do something that we should have done earlier anyway. But it's a good thing it's done now, it's a good thing state policy is on the verge of this policy. It is good that there is a general consensus in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I listened to distinguished colleagues, representatives of opposition parties, as far as I understand, whether they have amendments or not, will not, by adopting their amendments, condition a vote for these laws because they see and recognize a clear, general interest and it seems to me another proof of the good policy conducted by this government, whose absolute tone is given by the Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic. As far as international restrictive measures are concerned, I say, as someone who has recently been hit by these international limits and because of the lack of understanding of the international community, mostly because of the mistakes of our policy, it is good that the government has come with one such law in which we, as someone implementing another policy, will fully adhere to international law and we will not, unlike some other times, be represented as defenders of international law and be under the influence of that international law. What Mr Dacic said in his address, it seems to me that he left out to state, that since we were admitted to the Council of Europe in 2003, we have since then many conventions, recommendations and so on, we have applied the Council of Europe to our legal system of justice, information, the position of the NGO association, the fight against corruption, then co-operation with the international tribunal for the former Yugoslavia. We have seven other conventions of the Council of Europe to ratify. I expect you, Mr. Minister, to come to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia as soon as possible with all these seven conventions of the Council of Europe, and to ratify them, because if we are on the verge of this policy then there should be no dilemma. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u47944	Thank you. Do any of the other authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? The word is from MP Djordje Milicevic, the authorised representative of the SPS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u47945	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, Foreign Minister, respected representatives of the ministry, is a clear goal of the legislative proposals we are talking about today, and you have made it quite clear and completely accurate, which is strengthening the international reputation of the Republic of Serbia. Bearing in mind, above all, the importance and importance of the objectives that are to be achieved by adopting this legislative proposal, we will, of course, support all three legislative proposals in the voting day as a Parliament club. What I want to say at the very beginning of my presentation, given that this could be heard during the recent debates, so it was about foreign policy, it was about diplomatic activities, given, Mr Minister, that for the first time in the Republic's Parliament we were talking about in early 2016, I would like first to present a position and an assessment of the parliamentary club, when it comes to international activities, that is, when it comes to international plans, diplomatic activities, foreign policy of Serbia in 2015. We believe that the previous year for Serbia has been very successful in the international plan, we believe that it is a strengthened and strengthened international reputation and international position of Serbia, that it is very important that Serbia is spoken nicely and positively in the world today, unlike some previous periods, and that it is very important that Serbia is seen today by all as a stable, safe, reliable, constructive and real partner, an equal partner, which is most important. Serbia, when it comes to its external shelf, leads one, I would say, a balanced, balanced foreign policy, where our interest is, above all, an unimpaired priority. So, our strategic commitment and the strategic interest of Serbia certainly is EU membership, but Serbia will continue to build friendly and good relations with both Russia and China and the United States. In 2015, when we talk about diplomatic activities, when we talk about diplomatic victories, when we talk about what was done and about foreign policy, he talked about it, I think he mentioned fellow Chikiriz, so what is most important is that the first negotiating chapters are opened and that is a day of exceptional importance and importance for the citizens of Serbia, it is a day of historical importance for us, it is, above all, a confirmation of the effort and work that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has made to achieve and create European standards in Serbia, and this is a confirmation of the success of the government of the Republic of Serbia on the path of European integration. So this government has shown, in the opinion of the SPS parliamentary club, its ability and its willingness to achieve historical results in the interest of its citizens. What is most important is that Serbia is on the right track, that Serbia is on a safe path, that Serbia is on a safe European path, that Serbia has its place in the EU and that Serbia wants to be a member of the family of European peoples. We still have a lot of work to do in the next period of time, when we talk about Serbia's European path, but this government has never run away from work, has never run away from responsibility. There is no task set before this government on the path of European integration without its success being realised. Also, in 2015, I don't think there was a word about it today, but in very difficult and complex international conditions, Serbia has also shown its ability and willingness to manage a serious and complex, complex organisation, such as the OSCE. And, today, as I said at the beginning, Serbia is seen as a reliable, stable, constructive and equal partner. Serbia was the international diplomatic capital in 2015. The OSCE Council of Ministers, correct me if I'm wrong, but I think the biggest meeting organised by Serbia is behind us, after the summit of the unclassified. Also, when we talk about diplomatic activities, two major diplomatic victories of Serbia should certainly be noted during the previous period of time. First of all, Kosovo's membership in UNESCO has been disabled, first of all, by the unique diplomatic activity of the state summit and the president of the government of the Republic of Serbia, as vice-president of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the foreign minister, with the support of our traditional partners and traditional friends, we have managed to protect our cultural and historical heritage and have managed to protect our monasterys in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. The second diplomatic victory, of course not the other in importance and importance, but in some order, so the second diplomatic victory is certainly not the adoption of a resolution at the UN Security Council session, thanks again, primarily to diplomatic activity, the single policy of the state summit, with the support of traditional friends, countries that are our traditional friends. We have managed to defend our national and state interests, we have managed to show that justice and truth are on our side and that at the moment we are talking about our region, we do not need any resolutions and documents that will deepen some new divisions and new conflicts. Serbia, when we talk about regional policy, has made it very clear what it wants. He wants peace, security, stability, good neighbourly relations, co-operation. He wants all open issues, if there are open issues, to be resolved through dialogue, through conversation, because it is the only way to come up with compromise and just solutions that are always acceptable to both sides. One-sided moves never did any good. I don't want to go back, a few months ago we had this kind of one-sided move and he certainly wouldn't have done any good if she hadn't talked about an open question that existed back then. In 2015, thanks to the diplomatic activities of the state summit, I would like to highlight another event, which I consider to have exceptional importance and importance, which is the summit of China and 16 Central and Eastern European countries, an event of exceptional importance and importance for Serbia. So, we believe, the SPS parliamentary club believes that Serbia achieved exceptional results internationally in 2015 and that in 2015, on the international plan, it was very successful for Serbia. I will remind, or repeat, a strengthened and strengthened international reputation, Serbia's international position. Serbia is well spoken of today, and Serbia today is seen as a stable, safe and reliable partner. Serbia is on a good and safe European path. Serbia has its place in the EU and will be part of the family of European peoples, but Serbia will continue to build its friendly relations with both Russia and China and the United States and for such a policy, respected Vice President and you, the Foreign Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, of course you have the support of the SPS parliamentary club. As I was saying, when it comes to legal proposals that are on the agenda today, and they come right from your ministry, the Foreign Ministry, or the Foreign Ministry, is the promoter. The aim of the law is to strengthen the international reputation of the Republic of Serbia. First of all, a few words about the proposal for a law on international restrictive measures. It is primarily about, as you said in the opening statement, the need to bring our legislation into line with international law, but it is also about the obligation arising from Serbia's membership in international organisations. Serbia is one of the initiators, one of the founding members and a full member of the UN organisation and of course has an obligation to adopt such an act. International restrictive measures are imposed on the basis of the UN Security Council Resolution and have one clear objective, which is to preserve international peace, stability and security, and I think that this goal is for no one, but absolutely no one in this room is disputed and is not questionable. The introduction of international restrictive measures is an international response if it is estimated that one of the countries or states that is a member of the UN endangers peace and security, which do not mean and you have made it very precise and clear, do not mean the use of military forces. Therefore, the adoption of the law is envisaged by a national plan for the adoption of EU legal flows. As the colleague said recently, there are two models, the EU predicts two types or two models or two types of restrictive measures, measures adopted by the UN Security Council and autonomous restrictive measures adopted by the EU Council. So, by adopting this legislative proposal, it is true that we are successfully implementing another one in a series of obligations on the path of European integration, and in particular Chapter 31 – Foreign Security and Defence Policy and, when we talk about the legislative framework in Serbia, a legal framework for the application of international restrictive measures will be fully established. As regards the second legislative proposal, not in other words, but in order, the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Lebanon on the abolition of visas for holders of diplomatic, special and official passports, you have said in the opening statement what this agreement provides, the abolition of visas for holders of diplomatic, official and special passports, and yet in accordance with the Vienna Conventions on diplomatic and consular relations. The agreement represents a willingness to improve bilateral relations between the two countries. I would like to say that with great pleasure we will support this legislative proposal, and above all, with a political relationship in mind. So diplomatic relations between the two countries, between Lebanon and Serbia in particular, I think they've been dating somewhere since 1946. They are stable today, safe, good, without open questions, and there is a need for improvement. What is very important to us, Lebanon has not recognised Kosovo and Metohija's independence. Lebanon took a principled stance at the UNESCO Conference, and supported Serbia's principled stance, which is in line with international law, with UN Security Council resolutions, and voted against Kosovo's membership in UNESCO. That is the reason for an even greater positive mood to support this legislative proposal. On the other hand, when we talk about the issue that is particularly important for Lebanon, I mean the Middle Eastern crisis, there again, Serbia has one principled position of supporting a peaceful, long-term and lasting solution. What should also be seen when we talk about this legislative proposal is economic relations that are not negligible. We have here some data from 2012 and 2013, and should work in the next period of time to improve and economic relations. For example, in 2012, our exports amount to around 11-449m euros and imports of 664,000 euros. In the first six months of 2013, exports amounted to $3,642,000 and imports of 303,000. So there's space, with these indicators and data in mind, there's space and there's room to think about improving economic co-operation in the coming period. As far as the third legislative proposal is concerned, which is currently under discussion, which is the proposal for a law confirming the European Framework Convention on Cross-border Cooperation between Territorial Communities or Authorities, which is why you said that it was made up, and you mentioned in the opening statement that it was made in Madrid on 21 May 1980, and hence the name of the Madrid Convention, that it was created, of course, under the auspices of the Council of Europe, that it had entered into force on 22 December 1981, that it had signed 41 states so far, and that it had ratified 38 states. You spoke very carefully and clearly about the goals that are to be achieved through the adoption of the Convention. They are completely acceptable to us, of course, and we support them. I would point out that additional protocols allow for co-operation between countries that are not territorially bordered, which once again increases the space for co-operation. The convention is scheduled, as you said, for two models of a co-operation agreement. It is the first model of an interstate agreement, under which the improvement of cross-border co-operation falls exclusively within the jurisdiction of the States. For the model, Serbia was defined, but besides Serbia, Italy, Spain, Slovakia, Georgia, Azerbaijan were also defined as well. In this way, the state is the only institution of international legal entity. Serbia, you have also talked about this, a member of the Council of Europe since 2003, and since then has joined a number of conventions of the Council of Europe, and in order to bring its legal order into line with the standards of the Council of Europe. By ratifying this Madrid Convention, Serbia will be even closer to reaching the standards set and meeting those constitutional obligations, which will contribute in the next period of termination of post-admission monitoring, which will mean reaching full standards. By ratification of the so-called The Madrid Conventions we are convinced that Serbia further improves its standards in line with European and world practice, which in the coming period, we believe in full capacity, will put Serbia in the order of modern, developed European states. Of course, once again, at the very end of the voting day, the SPS Parliament Club will support all three legislative proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u47946	I thank Mr. Djordj Milicevic, head of the SPS parliamentary group. The word has been issued by MP Mira Petrovic, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u47947	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, distinguished ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues, I will only briefly, on behalf of the PUPS parliamentary group, confirm that in the day of voting, we will vote for this set of laws that lies ahead. Of course, it is my pleasure and our parliamentary groups that all representatives of the parliamentary groups today had a similar attitude. They all supported these three laws. It is evident that they were made by professionals, that they are very clear, very precise. We know that was the priority of our national programme for the integration of the Republic of Serbia, and it is good that we work in this direction. This law will be very transparent, as you can see from it. Records and legal and natural persons will be kept, data will be provided on the requirements of international organisations. These restrictive measures, unfortunately, we had experience and all of us felt in one period. Whether they were good then or not, they'll show history. We'll let it pass for a little while longer. In any case, we have set out the way for these European integrations. This is something we had to fulfill. This law, and especially the law on these international restrictive measures, will also be very important for our dedicated industry, for the records of arms exports. So the PUPS parliamentary group will support all three laws in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u47948	Thank you. The word is from the MP, Prof. Dr. Aleksandra Tomic, the authorised representative of the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u47949	Thank you. Dear Mr. Becic, Mr. Dacic, fellow MPs, before I start talking about legal proposals, I would say first that today's session, I think, in fact, is the coronation of a hard work in Serbia's foreign policy, but also the work of the Serbian government. What many may not know, the Madrid Convention, which is linked practically to cross-border co-operation, has been Serbia's obligation since Serbia became a member of the Council of Europe. But what the public certainly doesn't know is that much depends on individuals, especially when it comes to foreign policy and what needs to be said today and unequivocally to all Serbian citizens, that the delegation of the parliament of Serbia and the delegation of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which took part in the work of the Council of Europe at the previous meeting, when it spoke about the state of human rights report in Kosovo and when a statement on the resolution on Kosovo and Metohija was made in the Council of Europe itself, it is necessary to say that the great success and struggle that was fought within the Council of Europe itself was tormented. If I tell you that of all Albanian amendments to the vote, the result of the vote is 51 to 50 to reject the Albanian amendment, then I need nothing more to say about how important it is that the resolution adopted on Kosovo and Metohija, and based on the Human Rights Report, is given 53 votes and 50 against that resolution. So, I'm talking about our representatives and president of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Aleksandra Djurovic, had one hard job, as you had a hard job when it came to both UNESCO and Srebrenica resolution, to fight for the real sake of preserving the national interests of the Republic of Serbia, but also to deal with the fact that our obligations must be carried out. When it comes to the Madrid Convention, which has been in force since 1981, which speaks of cross-border co-operation, it is good that we have chosen a model that implies state sovereignty, because Serbia had the opportunity in 2000 to work together through local self-government on projects of cross-border co-operation with both Bulgaria and Romania, and with Hungary, and with Bosnia and Herzegovina, but without the support of the state and practically the Republic of Serbia, no local self-government can do so. Why? Because through these projects, cross-border co-operation is always required to participate in the project's 15% budget. What does that show? Local self-government is not always capable of coping with conditions of competition. These are less characteristics when we talk about the conditions of competition and lighter conditions when there is cross-border co-operation than when competitions are exclusively the EU. In cross-border co-operation projects, two Member States are involved, and in EU member states, when it comes to European projects, you have a minimum of three, plus normal support for three EU member states. It should be said that such a model, which has been chosen through ratification in general, is also very good at adopting this law on the validation of the European Framework Convention on Cross-border Cooperation between Territorial Communities and Authorities and should indeed be supported. It should be said that by 2012, the previous government mainly forced cross-border co-operation projects that applied exclusively to Vojvodina. That's what our colleagues in the New Market also said here. The adoption of such a draft gives equal chances to all borderline local self-governments to really develop in all segments and when it comes to regional development means economic activities, and when it comes to tourism, trade, and culture, and the part relating to environmental protection, but also to the area of emergency management, because we have seen that under the influence of climate change, no problem can be solved by the state itself, but regional co-operation, including EU support, is needed when we have the issue of floods in Serbia 2014. In order not to repeat myself, as well as my colleagues, I will only say that what we have noticed when it comes to this proposal is the ratification of the Madrid Convention, it should also be said that the projects financed by the EU itself and supported projects of cross-border co-operation so far while Serbia is at this status of negotiations, at the moment we are at the threshold of EU entry, even a year before that, there is the possibility of opening so-called. Structural funds from which simply Serbia can withdraw certain grants, but also funds that represent credit lines with very, very favourable conditions. In fact, these funds should serve to develop infrastructure precisely in these border municipalities and should serve precisely to strengthen regional co-operation. Of course, all of this would not be without a truly stable foreign policy, a policy that is aimed at peace and where the East and the West have now recognised practically that Serbia is an area and a state where they have an equal partner when it comes to seeking peace and security, both in the region and in the EU and in the world. You have had opportunities, when it comes to the resolutions on Srebrenica and UNESCO, to see that there are many friends in the world, somewhere this relationship has been quite dormant, and by coming to the head of SNS and Mr. Vukic, in collaboration with you Mr. Dacic, one responsible policy, along with all the obstacles you have encountered, has established such a system of functioning in the state that we are truly recognised by the conduct of foreign policy by all partners in the world, as serious and responsible, which creates conditions for the opening of many projects, when it comes to cross-border co-operation. This road to Europe, which practically shows our strategic commitment, but also the part that applies to our historical friends will never turn our backs, shows essentially that we never do secretly, but we tell everyone and all the partners in the world what we think, including through a law relating to ratification of the Agreement where we abolish visas for holders of diplomatic, special, official passports for the Government of the Republic of Lebanon. We give recognition for the support they have given us, but it should be said, as one piece of information, that Lebanon has so far issued about 2,500 thousand of these passports that are outside the state's borders and shows the country's commitment to co-operate with Serbia on various issues. This bill consists of only three members, but they show, in addition to abolishing visas, that this law should enter into force eight days from the day of its adoption in the National Assembly of Serbia and shows our readiness that this is a country with which, as well as all others to which we have abolished this possibility, it shows a good relationship. When we talk about the law, which is most interesting, about international restrictive measures, it should be said that your Ministry held a session of the Foreign Affairs Committee on July 30th and had the opportunity to explain this proposal for a legal solution. The law came into congregation procedure on July 15th. He did not go by emergency procedure, but what it shows is that he gives one procedure to introduce and implement and abolish international measures of restrictions that constitute the obligation of the Republic of Serbia. We have so much UN resolution according to Article 25. We have obligations in the light of the process under Chapter 31. We have a strengthening of Serbia's position and when it comes to restrictive measures, especially when we are talking about trade, or exporting weapons, but also when it comes to the movement of certain persons, as well as the availability of the assets of certain persons working to destroy peace and security, not only in the world, but also in certain regions. Serbia becomes an integral part of the world, when it comes to this area and implements these certain laws. As you said correctly, it's a Lex specialise that applies to the Criminal Law for those who sin. The projected measures are from three months to three years, and when it is done with intent, there are up to eight years in prison. I want to say that it is good that this law is passed, because it shows Serbia's commitment to peace and security in the world and shows that there are certain international obligations to implement these international measures. It is, in addition to UN Security Council Resolution, when it comes to Chapter VII of the Charter, the decision of the European Security and Co-operation Organisation. These are the decisions of many international organisations where Serbia or a member is or has a statement on which it should be in line with foreign policy priorities, but there are certain limits, which the Republic of Serbia introduces on other grounds and what is very important is that this law will enable the keeping of records and will be our obligation, keeping records, which otherwise exists already on the website of the United Nations, and we are giving ourselves one obligation to co-operate with the Security Council Committee, especially when it comes to persons who violate such a law. All in all, this is only one part of what we had the opportunity to hear when it comes to foreign policy and I think that this part of the law is essentially a prerequisite for the great trust of our friends in the world, the European Union, but also in the region, but it should be said that when it comes to certain conferences such as the OSCE Council of Ministers, as was the part that referred to a joint conference with the People's Republic of China, and related to the countries of Central Europe, as well as Southeast Europe unequivocally, then in fact it shows that someone respects you in the world. Essentially, the economy comes out as a result of well-leaded foreign policy and as a recognition for the economic reforms implemented, and I would say certain reforms that are certainly within the framework of foreign policy. When we say that, there must be a lot of reasons for that, especially when we're not just talking about international organisations that touch the economy. So, like the IMF, the World Bank and the United Nations International Organization, who, through their committees and the Council of Europe, through their committees, simply give that assessment. These congratulations that are indeed coming, as were our representatives in the Council of Europe, when we had the question of the Resolution on Kosovo and Metohija, then it shows essentially that this government, which has indeed achieved historical success in foreign policy, gives one great importance that we are on the path that results. These results should be kept talking about them, and indeed are the results that give the future to our children, but also to Serbia, that it really remains in the way of development. In voting day, the Serbian Progressive Party will accept the set of laws and will vote on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u47950	Thank you, Mrs. Tomic. The word has the People's MP Alexander Senic. Here you go, Mr. Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u47951	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As the already-authorised representative of our Social Democratic Party parliamentary group -- Together for Serbia, Green Serbia said, our parliamentary group will support all three legislative proposals in the voting day. There remains one uncertainty, so I ask Mr. Minister to answer me, since it is not clear to me – why does this law not apply to the procedure of implementing the international restrictive measures that the Republic of Serbia is introducing, applying or abolishing under the legal acts of the European Union? So where the reasons for the law are written – by adopting this law, the Republic of Serbia will fulfil one of the obligations set out in negotiating Chapter 31 – foreign, security and defence policy, which will fully establish a legal framework for the application of international restrictive measures. That is fine, so we support it, we want our legislation to be in line with the legal assets of the European Union. We had a report from the European Commission for 2015, which stressed that it was necessary to pass this law, which was already in the assembly procedure. It's all right, but I'm confused by Article 1 where it doesn't say that it applies to the legal acts of the European Union. So, it writes -- it refers to legal acts brought by the United Nations Security Council, which is quite all right. Organisations for European Security and Co-operation, which is of course fine, as well as legal acts by other international organisations that bind the Republic of Serbia. The legal acts of the European Union do not oblige the Republic of Serbia, as the Republic of Serbia is not a member of the European Union. So, in order for the legal acts of the European Union or the European Commission, the European Council to oblige the Republic of Serbia, we must first change the Constitution. Since it is not mentioned here that these restrictive measures will also apply to the legal acts of the European Union, I wonder how do we align this with the legal assets of the European Union, and the law we adopt does not concern compliance with the legal acts of the European Union? It's a very simple question. Let me tell you, we have given an amendment that provides for the introduction and that the harmonisation is done with the legal acts of the European Union and we believe that this is an unintended failure, which you will correct by accepting our amendment. Also, where the reasons for law-making are, point 5) says, the draft was prepared in line with the National Programme for the Integration of the Republic of Serbia into the European Union, the adoption of the legal flows of the European Union, the adoption of this law was defined as a priority in the National Programme for the Integration of the Republic of Serbia into the European Union. That's what we support and that's absolutely right and necessary, but I'm going back to the question I've already asked twice. So why is this law not prescribed and the procedure for implementing international measures, restrictions on the basis of legal acts adopted by the European Union? Please do not answer that I am in favour of Serbia imposing sanctions on Russia, because I am not. So our political party, our party, has clearly defined that it is against imposing sanctions on Russia. We believe that at this point Serbia cannot afford itself, that our economy is not strong enough to give up such a large market and this restriction it has, or that it should take over Serbia when it comes to harmonising with the European Union's foreign policy, is not just about Russia. Since we have seen in the European Commission's 2015 report that our country did not agree with the European Commission's directives and attitudes when it comes to restrictive measures towards Moldova, perhaps you can answer us now what were the reasons? So, for Russia, there are clear irrefutable reasons, we support them, Serbia should not impose sanctions on Russia, but why did Serbia not agree with the restrictive measures of the European Commission and the European Council when it comes to Moldova? That's another question. I'd like you to answer these two questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u47952	Thank you, Mr. Senic. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. He's not in the O.R. National MP Stefana Miladanovic. Here you go, Mrs. Miladinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u47953	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers, co-workers from the ministry, fellow MPs, I will take a few minutes to look back at all three draft laws that are on the agenda today, which contribute to strengthening the reputation of the Republic of Serbia in the international community. This was the case, in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, there is no general legal act governing issues and implementation and enforcement and abolition, but also supervision of international restrictive measures. So far, we have implemented these measures based on decisions made by the United Nations, based on decisions made by international courts and other international organisations, whose member we are as states. Although membership in the UN, the European Security Co-operation Organisation, as well as other international organisations, does not commit us to direct adoption of this general legal act that would in a comprehensive way regulate this area. The adoption of this law, I believe, will speed up the process of applying international measures, restrictions and significantly improve the capacity of the state to meet these international obligations. Secondly, I would say, an even more important reason for the adoption of this law lies in the fact that EU standards require that, during the negotiations in Chapter 31, the law on international restrictive measures and the relevant sublegal acts to implement these measures be adopted. The European Union applies two types of restrictions, measures adopted by the UN Security Council, which apply directly and autonomous restrictive measures imposed under Article 215. The Treaty on the Functioning of the EU which Member States apply directly. The adoption of this law on international restrictive measures and from this aspect should also be an upgrade and addition of existing and legislative and administrative frameworks for the implementation of restrictive measures. The very subject of this law is the regulation and procedures for introducing, implementing, abolishing, but also the supervision of the application of international restrictive measures that the Republic of Serbia will carry out in the future. Practices and standards of the UN, the EU, as well as countries in the environment, are prescribed and values protected by restrictive measures, i.e. the objective of introducing measures, such as preserving and establishing international peace and security, respect for human rights and the basis for freedom, development and strengthening democracy, as well as other objectives in accordance with international law. And right in Article 2. The proposal for a law in accordance with that practice is defined by the objectives of introducing international restrictive measures. In addition to decisions made by international organisations, whose implementation stems from the membership of the Republic of Serbia in them or from the achievement of external political priorities. The law provides for the possibility of implementing decisions and other entities, as well as the implementation of sanctions under some other basis which is in accordance with international law and based on practices of the countries in the environment. This means that this law will provide wider opportunities for the application of international restrictive measures, not only when the Republic of Serbia is obliged to implement them on the basis of membership, but also when it is estimated that this is from the point of view of our country is being deported to the interests. In accordance with the legislative practice in the Republic of Serbia and the analysed standards in this area, we can say that this law fully regulates this issue by its structure and will certainly contribute to the effective application of these measures. With all this in mind, we believe that the adoption of this law on international restrictive measures will be extremely important, especially given the plans of the Republic of Serbia to conclude and close negotiations on all chapters by 2018. We have yet another bilateral visa waiver agreement for holders of diplomatic special and official passports to be ratified. You signed this agreement last year in Beirut with your colleague Foreign Minister Lebanon. Of course, this agreement is both the desire and the willingness of the two sides to further develop bilateral relations, which we had the opportunity to hear today, are extremely good, actually stable, without open questions. Serbia has been a member of the Council of Europe since 2003, and since then we have joined many, have ratified a number of conventions. This Convention, the European Convention on Cross-border Co-operation between Territorial Communities or Authorities, known as the Madrid Convention, has ratified 38 Member States of the Council of Europe and I believe that we will adopt this resolution unanimously in the voting day. The aim of the Convention is to encourage the co-operation of local and regional authorities of signatories through the conclusion of the agreement. So, the Madrid Convention looks at the possibility of concluding type-approval contracts that give regional and local actors an adequate basis for long-term co-operation planning from their competence with partners in neighbouring countries. This will allow direct co-operation of border units, with respect for the territorial sovereignty of border areas. So far, Serbia has been able to use cross-border co-operation instruments based on ad hoc projects under the EU cross-border co-operation programme under the second component of pre-accession assistance instruments. These programmes are useful, but the development effect would be more visible and more feasible if local communities had at their disposal the instruments set out in this Convention. By ratifying this document, we will contribute to improving cross-border co-operation between border regions and local self-government in Serbia with partners from neighbouring countries, especially EU members. With congratulations to you and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on all the results achieved in the previous year, I will repeat once again what my distinguished colleague, the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, said the SPS would vote for all three draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u47954	I thank Mrs. Miladanovic. The word has a national emissary, Natasa Vučković. He's not in the O.R. National MP Marija Obradovic. Here you go, Mrs. Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u47955	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Dear Minister Dacic and his fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, the laws that are in front of us today are indeed part of our international obligations in terms of diplomacy and part of our obligations as regards the formation of the obligations of the legal framework under which we will act in the coming period, i.e. to specify what we have done so far. So far, there are certain limits, when we talk about the Law on International Limitation Measures, we have mostly done so on the basis of the decision of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and we have moved within these frameworks. Now it is really necessary, and also within our obligations and action plans for different negotiating chapters, this mentions Chapter 31 - Foreign Security and Defence Policy, and this is our obligation to bring ourselves into line and be part of these flows, we behave diplomaticly and stately as our state obligations as future EU members. This really regulates the procedure that we will introduce and implement and abolish international restrictive measures. It is our obligation both as members of the UN and as members of other international organisations such as the OSCE, but thus we are bound by different contracts and agreements of the international organisations that we have signed and which are determined by our relations with other members. This law also obliges all legal and all natural persons, which are the jurisdiction of our country and what is very important is that we will also strengthen the position of the Republic of Serbia in the area of export arms control. When we talk about these measures that can be implemented, the restrictive measures, they can really be different. They include either a complete interruption of diplomatic relations or a certain degree of their decline. There may also be economic ties, traffic interruptions or other means of communication and what I have already said may be a ban on arms trafficking or a restriction on the movement of certain persons or a temporary restriction on the availability of property and other similar measures. It is that we will make this a legal framework and it is that, as it says in this bill, we will really join a group of countries that in this way want to establish and preserve international peace and security, respect for international humanitarian rights, human rights and fundamental freedoms and the implementation of some other international obligations. But I'm sure they'll agree with me people who are seriously engaged in diplomacy, that often what is written on paper can be interpreted in practice in different ways and exactly the difference in the interpretations of what is written on paper leads to certain conflicts, primarily diplomatic ones, and then much more serious ones. It is very important that we be aware of the priorities of our foreign policy, in which way we will implement, how seriously, decadently we will adhere to what is prescribed. As a member of our delegation at the Council of Europe Assembly in Strasbourg, I am often a witness to different interpretations, I would also say hypocritical behaviour and MPs exactly the countries that are the pillars of the EU. You know, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is one seat where human rights are nurtured and where they should be respected in that maximum capacity and where there are no countries of first and second order, MPs of first and second order, votes of more or less. It's all that on paper when you calculate the congregation voter, but I have to tell you that the big diplomatic struggle is being fought every day. This is what representatives of the foreign ministry in Serbia do, all of our diplomatic envoys do, as representatives of parliamentary diplomacy. We have several very important delegations in the Serbian Assembly and we are really daily in communication with Foreign Minister Dacic, with representatives of our government, with people who are headed by different sectors in the foreign ministry and that is very important. It should be told the citizens that, therefore, parliamentary diplomacy, or MPs most often convicted of traveling, spend a certain amount of money, and this is all really just one newspaper inscription, there is no truth behind it, parliamentary diplomacy is very, very important. Often you can hear that MPs do not have the obligation to vote in international institutions, it is a rule in the world, they do not have the obligation to vote as their foreign ministry says, because it is a rule of independence for MPs to vote in an international institution in their opinion, in their own confidence. But I must tell you, our attitudes rarely differ. We work very closely together, we're on the same path, we have the same guidelines. What we can get from one or the other, in different international institutions, as a suggestion, and when we exchange experiences, we see where certain flows are going in international institutions, we finally find a common solution again. What is the importance of this cooperation that I keep talking about? Exactly because international restrictive measures are the result of an agreement. We are aware of the sanctions imposed on Russia, and I, as a member of the delegation in the Council of Europe, see what a pity it is that Russian representatives are not in the Council of Europe. The easiest thing to do is to ban someone from being there and not hearing his voice, but, believe me, after a few months, we have regular meetings in the Council of Europe every three months, but after the first session where the Russians didn't show up, we have seen how difficult it is to make decisions without such a key factor, how many other processes and relations in the Council of Europe have broken down and how difficult it is to work. This will testify to you, to your soul, in private, informal conversations, and MPs of the highest forces, who actually requested the introduction of sanctions to Russia. It's very difficult to function. It is not good that in international organisations, where they are actually represented, not political parties, international organisations, MPs in international organisations are the voice of citizens coming from these countries, and therefore it is unfortunate when MPs in international organisations declare themselves on behalf of their parties, not on behalf of the countries from which they come. Of course, it is very difficult to suggest that a certain MP will vote, but it should be kept in mind that we abroad really represent the country from which we come and that the interests of the state should be represented. Many, many colleagues from EU countries insist and pressure on members of the Serbian delegation, because they know that we have informal contacts with Russian Federation MPs, insist that we establish contacts, try to return the Russians to international flows, to the Council of Europe, because it is necessary to work together. We can't hear the voice of the people of the Russian Federation and we don't know what they really think, we need to work together. Serbian diplomacy has made, or diplomacy of the Republic of Serbia, a great success in the previous period, since 2012, in parliamentary diplomacy, above all, at the beginning of the Interparliamentary Union, and now in the Assembly of the Council of Europe, all our delegations have made significant shifts in the last three years, and in all international organisations there is a record of how active someone is, how much participates in the work of committees, on the tides, in making different resolutions, decisions during the discussion, and I must tell you that there is a significant shift in Serbia's position for the better everywhere. We are in the Council of Europe Assembly after three years in the seventh place by activity, of 47 countries that are members of the Council of Europe, and we were once at the beginning of the list. So that's what it says about the activities of the MPs, but first of all, it's in close co-operation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It's similar in the Interparliamentary Union. I also want to talk about the successes that individual MPs, members of our delegation, have achieved by being elected for important places where key decisions are made in these international institutions, which says that they also give recognition to our country from which we come, and also about this MP personally who is running for that position. This time, Minister Dacic, I turned more towards the lawmakers in diplomacy, but the same applies, indeed, to representatives of your ministry around the world, where we are leaving, as members of the Serbian Parliament delegation. I wouldn't have referred negative criticism, more appeal to the ambassadors and to our diplomatic staff, let's say for some degree raises their level of activity and be even more committed to work than they've ever been. I don't think the embassy was sufficiently involved with the Foreign Ministry during the previous period, in terms of ongoing consultations and contacts. That was indeed true, in a technical sense, essentially your personal activity, Minister Dacic, was shown during the struggle for Kosovo's entry into the Union, that is, our struggles so that they will not be accepted. I'm sure you'll agree that as much as you've put forth your efforts, it says that ambassadors and our diplomatic staff need a strong boost from the headquarters to move on and be even more active. We have extremely educated, capable, when I say diplomatic staff, I think first of ambassadors, consuls, attachée, so people who are across Serbia and represent Serbia in the best possible way, but that it is very important for them that you, too, from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, continue to assign new and new tasks and new and new scales, in which they will work. And this law on international restrictive measures, as well as these next two ratifications of the law, do not require special funding, it is very important when we talk about the Serbian budget that should always be at first place when we plan to, to keep it in mind when we plan our activities. Certain data records are introduced, both for countries and for international organisations, for natural persons, and it is very important to form these records when we talk about international restrictive measures, but also for the way data will be stored in the way data will be destroyed after a certain period, for five years. The Madrid Convention, i.e. the Convention, which defines in more detail how we will co-operate between local and regional authorities among states signatories, through the conclusion of different agreements, so, on cross-border co-operation, colleagues have already said what areas we are working together in, therefore, business co-operation and regional development and urban and rural development, transport, tourism, environmental protection, culture, what is very important, mutual assistance in emergency situations, there are many areas in which we should co-operate. It is great that we will ratify this Convention, which we have signed in due time with this statement, and I also think it is very important, that, with this statement with which we have signed the Convention, we have confirmed that indeed only the Republic of Serbia has an international and legal capacity and that we will avoid those different interpretations of this Convention, where international and legal subjectivity can have some other territorial unit of the Signatory State, that is to say that the state is the only holder of the list. The suspension of visas for holders of diplomatic, special and official passports with the Republic of Lebanon does not require much talk, which is, lessover, the procedural ratification of the Agreement. According to the data available to me, about three thousand people from the Republic of Lebanon who carry diplomatic, special and official passports will be able to function more easily when co-operation with Serbia and visit Serbia is at stake for up to 90 days, and will be excluded, therefore, from obtaining visas both for entry and transit and for staying in the territory of our country. And since I've been speaking positively, I've actually been saying positively all along, no doubt, I find it interesting that on this list of registered speakers for today we have colleagues who are against this set of laws and I'm sorry that we haven't been able to hear any of them so far, we've had time for authorized informants. I wanted to hear representatives of the DS or the opposition, which is why they're against this bill? It is not clear to me whether they are against cross-border co-operation or against allowing the representatives of Lebanon to come for official needs in Serbia or should we close the door for everyone? Or maybe they're against these sanctions, but then you have to explain why and how? Here, fellow Pavicevic is waving. But you're not from the Democratic Party. Not yet.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u47956	MPs, please, let's get back to the subject, we haven't commented yet.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u47957	Thank you. So, the Serbian Progressive Party, as Aleksandra Tomic said, will vote in favour of these draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u47958	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u47959	Ladies and gentlemen, I will not speak of a single impression today that the first Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Daqi, came to the National Assembly in one kind of, as I see it, the surprise missions, Madam President, ahead of Friday's session when we expect the Prime Minister to ask him a little bit about the work of a bad government, as I judge. But that won't be my topic today.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u47960	I hope so, honestly.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u47961	Of course, I won't, gentlemen, speak of a partial mess of text in Articles 13, 18 and 24 of this bill where, Mr. Dacic, there's nowhere to be found, a letter somewhere, and a fall has been missed. Dear gentlemen, I think we agreed here at the beginning of this call that respect for the grammar and rules of Serbian language is our highest interest, and when legislative projects come to the National Assembly, there must be no slips in the letter, no commas, nothing, gentlemen. Today, of course, I won't even talk about the silence of the first Deputy Prime Minister, Minister Dacic, despite this, Mr Dacic, which you have been asked a few questions here. The opposition MPs have asked very specific questions...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u47962	Ambassador, I'm only asking you about the agenda points, and we'll leave the minister to call whenever he wants.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u47963	But I am a bit of a folk MP dedicated to this work here to remind the Minister of Dacic, who is our guest, that it is time to answer the questions of the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u47964	They will, of course not, when we're done with the discussion, but only this is why we met today.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u47965	Here, I'm not going to talk about all this today, which is why you may have been partly right when you warned me about it once, and then again, but I think it's very important that we talk today about this bill, Minister Dacic, about the importance of formalising Serbia's foreign policy orientation. You did not often visit our congregation in this congregation. My expectations, for example, are. either, since we graduated from the same university, I did a little later international study, and you journalists, but my expectation was that during your ministry in the management of foreign affairs, foreign policy would appear here a document that would be defined in one of the key priorities of Serbia's foreign policy strategy. Mr Dacic, as long as we do not have formalized these priorities, it remains with you, in the Prime Minister, of the President of the Republic, that from visitation to visit, from interviews to interviews, you declare your once different views, Minister Dacic, where our country should go when it comes to its foreign policy. In order not to have that kind of confusion of unanimity, unconformed statements between the Prime Minister, the President of the Republic and the Foreign Minister...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u47966	Ambassador...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u47967	That's the darkness.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u47968	Admit you weren't getting ready for today.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u47969	Whenever you're right, I admit it, but now you're not.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u47970	But a little, admit it, we meet halfway.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u47971	We also have three amendments. Here, Mr. Dacic has already signed up. So he saw the relevance of this speech.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u47972	He didn't sign up.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u47973	Well, now we'll see if he answers or if Minister Dacic will defend himself with silence until the end. That wouldn't be appropriate for any minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u47974	So you don't know anything about the law?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u47975	No, we're moving on. So, formalization. As you have prepared this bill, Mr Dacic, on which we have submitted three amendments, here to hear Mrs Gojkovic, on Articles 13, 18 and 24, is so very important, Mr Dacic, to say whether Serbia's first, supreme priority is full membership in the EU. Not to say that somewhere, and someone in the second interview relativizes, but to write in the document and that, respected gentlemen, and the president of the National Assembly to hear, she manages the most important political institution in our country here, to hear and to know that it is written somewhere and that the obligation for every minister, for every minister, is for all the people who act on behalf of our institutions, on behalf of our country. Mr Dacicu, it is not enough to say here, and it is not good, that we want to be a member of the EU, that we will do that and then say it – at the same time we will protect our national interests. Well, if it's a priority for us to join the EU, Minister Dacic, then it's our top national interest, not to constantly conflict with what we declare in an interview or some visit with what is being advocated here when talking to citizens, etc. This is, I mean, one serious grudge. I'd like to hear your answer, Mr. Dacic, why there's no formalization, or, if you're planning on doing that, let's hear when it's gonna come up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u47976	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u47977	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems that those who teach students and who need to educate students alone are reading too little. So we've heard little about the laws, and we've heard more about the general impression of a national MP who just tried to advise the government on the international policy that she should be leading. These laws are from the area of international policy, and we who have been victims of the military and economic pressures our country has been exposed to, we know very well when they were legal, when they were part of UN policy, and when certain international factors have introduced them on their own. With that in mind, we must be extremely careful, because sometimes the introduction of measures, restrictions, sanctions, sometimes they can give a positive and negative result. Sometimes the introduction of sanctions is positive and foreign policy can contribute to the country's reputation, strengthen its international position, but sometimes introduce these measures, unless it is careful, unless it is in accordance with the law, unless it is in accordance with UN decisions, it can also harm. Thus, the introduction of measures towards Russia would seriously harm the country, and non-introduction could contribute to strengthening international reputation. For example, the Srebrenica Resolution may fall because someone in foreign policy was not humiliated, he did not crawl. He got a little lost, but he didn't crawl. He made it so the people wouldn't crawl. He thought that he could stand up and that in this way the resolution that was foreseen for Srebrenica, which could have had a devastating impact on our international reputation, was prevented. Therefore, there is no need to move lightly into restrictive measures, especially when it comes to sanctions, especially when they are demanding only from the work of the international community and in this respect should be extremely careful. As for the Law on cross-border co-operation, which defines cross-border co-operation, it should be directed towards neighbours to lead even when they are in a certain way our opponents. The number of opponents is not only reduced by defeating them, the number of opponents is sometimes reduced and we will convince them that co-operation is in the mutual interest, that there should be no war and no fight, that cross-border co-operation can be implemented projects that benefit all nations in the Balkan territory. With international policy in persuasion, we can always convince our neighbours, who have often not been fond of us in the last 100 years, who have been our military and political opponents, we can always convince them that it is an interest that certain parts of the international community do not use us against each other, but to turn in cooperation with each other. Often, the interests of the work of the international community are to dispute our peoples using animosities that are centuries old, using religious and national tolerances, instead of using this wealth to benefit all, and certain circles, of course, want these differences to be declared divided among the peoples of the Balkans and in such a way in one house, according to Brana Crncevic, in the middle of the road to try to realise their hidden intentions by arguing peoples who are even prone to disputes in the territory of the Balkans, or in that house in the middle of the road, as Brana Crncevic said. With this in mind, any cross-border co-operation in which certain projects are being implemented goes in favour of co-operation with the surrounding countries, regardless of how bitter we've had experience in the last 100 years. We don't have to, as some people want to say, fix them, we don't have to beat them, we just have to convince them, because the number of opponents decreases and by persuasion. If they move to your side, then you have more allies than your opponent. When you make an ally of your opponent, it's plus two, because you have one less opponent and one more ally, so it's one and one more. I'm sorry that Professor of the Faculty of Political Sciences has avoided my lecture and hastily moved away, as part of an intellectual service of a vincillator. As for the other laws that contribute to our international co-operation, I will try to be very brief and to say what Pasic said – that our policy can't be governed, that it has to be flexible, because we're too small a country, that we always stick to the co-op and always hard, that sometimes in Milos Obrenović's style, that you should not always say everything, because in politics it doesn't matter what you said and how much you said, but when you said and what you didn't say, or what you meant and how you didn't say, and how you will adapt politics to your nation, not to your own politics, and not to your own parties. I think that the international community and international policy are like climates and you can be against climates, you can object to such climates, but sooner or later you have to adapt to it. If you don't adapt to it, then you can experience what we've experienced in the 1990s, we've experienced a huge human, material and financial, and above all, economic, destruction, which we can't recover easily, unless we realize that the onapor Pasic that our little boat should always be tied to a big ship, if we don't understand it, then we won't learn from the past, and we better get them out. We could also learn lessons from the mistakes of some others, because it is always better to learn more from the mistakes of others than from our own, because mistakes in our own experiences, especially if they are repeated, are very expensively paid. In international politics, we have to have like all great nations, including some small nations, that we have to have a weather forecast. In order to adapt to that climate, we must count on some long-term forecast, in which way we should behave in some particular time, in order to resist these disasters as successfully as possible, as well as on the weather, as well as on the weather forecast, to get as much of a wetter as possible, to get us as much wind as possible, to get as cold as possible. I think our foreign policy needs to be run in the long run, it needs to be led primarily for the benefit of our people. We're too small and I don't believe we can direct the wind, as she says, but I think if we're smart, we can adjust the sails and be as exposed to the wind as possible, with as little effect as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u47978	The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. He's not here. ) The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u47979	Thank you. Dear President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I will speak of the first item of today's agenda, and that is the law on international restrictive measures. I have to admit that I was the name of the law, when I first looked at it, I was somewhat confused. And today in the debate, a colleague spoke all the time -- international restrictive measures, instead of this term -- are restrictive measures. I think the word "restrictive" is not the original Serbian word, but I think it makes it much clearer what this law is about. We have proposed an amendment to make this formulation – international restrictive measures, replaced by words – international restrictive measures, because we think it is much clearer what this law is really about. We said at the beginning, or authorized representative of our parliamentary group Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia and Green Serbia, that we would vote in favour of the bill, because it primarily systematically regulates this area, which has been regulated by the government's conclusions so far, as explained. In fact, the state has implemented its international obligations so far based on the government's conclusions. This law now stipulates that the Government again, on a proposal from the Foreign Minister, brings these measures, but it is elaborated exactly what these measures mean, to whom they can refer, what they do with assets, let's say, it makes it impossible to use certain assets of legal and physical persons that are covered by measures, when there are exceptions, in which the records and other things are kept. That's good, and it's good to edit our legal system. What the reason for the law says is that it is one of the intentions of passing such a law to bring our legal legislation into line with Chapter 31, which concerns the EU's foreign security and defence policy. What we consider to be even clearer, to be clearly put into the very law of the intention of the Republic of Serbia to follow the EU foreign policy in the future, if that goal has been established by the state, established since 2000, has not been questioned by any government decision, that is also the priority of the last government chosen two years ago. On the other hand, I find it a little strange that this law was sent by the government to the Assembly on June 15th of last year, and it has been more than six months on the agenda. We have debated here many laws proposed by emergency procedure, all day or two standing in the process. This law, which is important for Serbia's European path, again, has waited more than six months for the agenda. I think it may well be talking about the real intention of this government to join European integration. So, formally, declaratively, this government is for that, but when practical things are and when practical things are to be done, it's not a priority of this government. On this side, we can look at the fact that only after three and a half years, or almost four years after the candidate's status, has the first negotiating chapters opened just over a month ago, and for all this time, we haven't had the opportunity to discuss the foreign policy of the government, how effective it is, whether we are using all the possibilities and all the capacity of the state to speed up this path of Eurointegration. Our opinion is that the government is slowing down and not doing everything possible for Serbia to complete the negotiation process as soon as possible and completely unrealistically from the position today, here, in January 2016, sound announcements that we will end the negotiation process by the end of 2018. I think that's important to say because, as we can see, the election campaign has started, these days opening up for the second-third time factories that have been working for several years, announcing things that will happen to us in the near future, but what is real, real moves and governments and this Parliament do not give us the right to believe that this will happen. We've given a few amendments with a desire to fix this law. We will also support the other two agenda points that we are discussing today in the context of this united debate. I'd like, if I don't mind the president, to use maybe 20 seconds to ask the minister to answer the parliamentary question I asked almost two months ago. It is the fate of Serbian citizens kidnapped in Libya on 8 November -- Sladjana Stankovic and Jovica Stepic. Almost three months since they were kidnapped, we have no information about what is happening to them, what is their destiny, what is the government doing specifically so that two citizens, employed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, at the service in Libya, kidnapped in the workplace, what is the state doing to bring them home to their families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u47980	Thank you. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u47981	Your Honor, Mr. Dacic, I'm glad to see you, I guess for the last time in that role. I expect that famous line of yours -- after the election, I don't know who's going to be sitting in the government, but I know I'm going to be prime minister after these elections. Today, three laws are on the agenda; a draft law on international restrictive measures, a draft law on the validation of the European Framework Convention on Cross-border Cooperation between Territorial Communities or Authorities and a bill on the approval of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Lebanon. Our foreign policy, as my predecessors have said, is quite vague. So we have three laws, and we can ask whether one of them wrote Vukic, the other you, Mr Dacic, and the third Mr Nikolic, because we have at least three foreign policies. The turnaround movement has repeatedly pointed to that. I don't think it's an accident that we have three foreign policies for the people. We have one policy. However, with the aim of gathering all the voters you need in the election day, I think it is more fiction, such as the current conflicts between your party and the SNS party. I'm rooting for you to get along.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u47982	MPs, nothing about football games, try the law, if you can. Ambassador, can we talk about the law, or can't we? For who he's rooting for, it's the law of sport.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u47983	Here, the chairman, since you are well known to the public as someone who follows my spoken word very closely, beyond the agenda, here is the member of the 3rd Chairman and Mr. Minister, regarding the Law on International Limitation Measures. I am interested in Article 3, which says - international restrictive measures are applied according to point 4 of point 4. - a natural person who is not a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, who resides in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and who is on the list, etc. Now I'm interested, Mr. Dacic, in your position regarding this law and in general about foreign policy. So, what is your position, and as regards this law, regarding Matar Suhajla al Daherija, whom Mr. Vukic, the other day, gave citizenship to buy as a Serbian citizen to the Serbian country? So, as he deserved it, and whether this law in this Article 3 will apply to Matar Suhajli al Daheri, after he became a Serbian citizen, and will be able as a Serbian citizen to buy a country in Serbia, Vojvodina mainly, in other parts of Serbia, without restrictions. This law was passed to limit foreign citizens and to apply certain measures. However, Matar Suhajil al Daheri, the key man of Sheikh Muhammad bin Zajed al Nahjana, is an exception to this law. And what's he like... ..
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u47984	Ambassador, we have passed a law that prevents fortune from being foretold.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u47985	What is your view of granting citizenship to Matar Suhajil al Daheri, who has been our citizen since the day that many Serbs could not get Serbian citizenship? What is your position, Mr Dacic, about Matar Suhajil al Daherij becoming our citizen who will become a Latinist in Serbia? Do you have a view, may you announce it, that on behalf of the Turnover Movement, the citizens of Serbia, would be interested in that, but I think, too, in Serbia's citizens, did Matar Suhajil al Daheri meet all the conditions for being a citizen of the Republic of Serbia and what are his merits under the Law on Citizenship that he has acquired this right? I'd even be done with this, so I'd like to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u47986	Thank you. We'll move on to the amendments later. I have to admit, I didn't understand anything, so I didn't interrupt more often. I'm sorry, I can't always interrupt you when I haven't understood anything since the discussion. The word is Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u47987	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I like that love and it's some cheerleading for some completely unnatural, I'd say, political calculations, or combinations, or coalitions, maybe. That mutual love and, let me say, cheerleading is based only on, or based on, a common noun, which is hatred towards SNS President and Prime Minister Alexander Vukic. On the other hand, what is good and what is crucial is that, fortunately for all Serbian citizens, it is not up to you, Mr. Veselinovic, to decide that. But what I also have, symptomatically, is who Janko Veselinovic is only talking about. If you've noticed, Madam Chairman, he hasn't talked much about the agenda point today, and all these days he talks about is the election. He's the last person to look forward to the election. The last person, I mean in this House, in general, on the political scene, because there are nine members of the party in Belgrade, which we have proven...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u47988	Ambassador, please, just ignore it, we all have some of our dreams than you're talking about the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u47989	I'm sure Madam President that you respect him as a political factor in Boris Tadic, I'm sure of it, and I respect him, so I disagreed with his policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u47990	Please, only about the law if we can put everything into this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u47991	Here, in one sentence, Boris Tadic said Mr. Veselinovic represented himself and his aunt.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u47992	I'm asking you about the law, I'm going to have to react, so you told each other what you have, now let your aunts aside and the law, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u47993	Thank you. I'm moving on to the law. Today, very important and important legislation proposals from international contracts and foreign affairs are very important and I would like to point out at first that I strongly support the proposed legislative solutions, but what I would also like to point out is that Serbia, in all likelihood, is currently enjoying the best position when it comes to foreign policy, international activities and international reputation. After a long, long time, we are undoubtedly in the best position today, certainly due primarily to the government of the Republic of Serbia headed by Prime Minister Alexander Vukic. Serbia's citizens should point out that the government of the Republic of Serbia is making efforts to make Serbia a modern, orderly and decent country and in this sense results are seen at every step, including in the area of foreign policy. Despite the fact that this job is very difficult, very demanding, very hard work. And why is he so hard? Because of the amount and volume of trouble and burden they left us. Who left us? It is those who honor certain objections today, that it is those who have brought the country into such a difficult position, and today they have taught us lessons, and they have had years and years, decades to correct all that they resent today. So they were years old, they had all the time in the world, but apparently they had no will or knowledge. For some unknown reason, they didn't do anything about it. All that mattered was the rating party. It was an important day-to-day policy, a day-to-day political rating, and they declared themselves advocating foreign policy, i.e. the foreign-political position of our country. As they declared, they also advocated European integration. As they sedecularly advocated to strengthen relations with the Russian Federation. They also declared themselves to fulfill our country's international relations, all declarative, and basically nothing, in practice nothing. Everything was subordinated to the mere rating of one then ruling party, so what I'm saying is true, it says that the Madrid Convention, which today is on the agenda, which we are adopting, so open to signing, and we heard it today in the debate in the 80s, came into effect in 1981, and today we ratify it. I ask the question – why haven't we done it so far? Why does this ruling majority have to take over and meet all those obligations for which some other majority had neither dry nor time? Today's agenda points speak of the international reputation of our country being improved, that the position, the foreign policy position of our country is strengthened, that we are internationally recognised in every sense of this sentence and for all these reasons I call for strong support, not to waste time on what is today but, to say, several times the foreign policy effort and victory that we have achieved, so also when it comes to the Srebrenica Resolution and when it comes to UNESCO, etc., but for all these reasons I would like to further support and adopt in the voting day all the proposed solutions that are on the agenda today. Thank you. (Janko Veselinović, from the city: I answer the word. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u47994	My point is, we're not going into replicas. You said who you support politically. No one asked for a replica. In two sentences, the MP quoted the former president of the state and his opinion, so we can get it over with. (Janko Veselinovic, from the place: Nothing, let the minister answer... () Yes, I have arranged with the minister in the end to listen to all MPs and to answer everyone. That's the deal, so who cares about the foreign minister's answer to all the questions you're going to ask him to stay in the O.R. Thank you very much. The word has been given by MP Dejan Nikolic. He's not here. The word has a folk MP, Vanja Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u47995	I thank the presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Foreign Minister and First Deputy Prime Minister, I am extremely pleased to see you again here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. At the beginning, I would like to congratulate you personally, as well as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Government in general on the successes of foreign policy in the course of last year, and above all this concerns the failure to adopt a resolution on Srebrenica in the UN Security Council, then the UNESCO vote on Kosovo's membership in the organisation, then the OSCE presidency, which in the opinion of many foreign officials is the best presidency since the establishment of this organisation. Unlike some of the past times when the Republic of Serbia has suffered only failures internationally, and I will remind you of the decisions of the International Court of Justice, this year, last year we can consider the year of success for the Republic of Serbia on that foreign-political plan. In my presentation, I will refer to the Law on International Restricted Measures, which is the obligation of the Republic of Serbia, which stems from membership in various international institutions, such as the UN, the OSCE and other institutions, as well as the need to coordinate foreign policy and rules with EU regulations. So, this law also represents the obligation of the Republic of Serbia to come out of the pre-accession negotiations for EU and Chapter 31, relating to foreign security and defence policy. Therefore, international restrictive measures are applied to preserve and establish international peace and security, respect for international humanitarian law, human rights and fundamental freedoms, and the implementation of other international obligations. Mr Minister, in your presentation, you have called for certain provisions of the Charter and the UN relating to the application of the measure of limitations, and I will refer to the UN objectives, namely one of the objectives contained in the first article, the first point of the UN Charter, and that is to maintain international peace and security, and for this purpose is to take effective collective measures to prevent and eliminate threats to peace and combat acts of aggression or other violations of peace, as well as to achieve peaceful means, and in accordance with the principles of justice and international justice and the resolution of international disputes or situations which could lead to a breach of peace. In order to meet this goal, among other things, it is necessary to pass the law on international measures of the restriction we are discussing today and which, hopefully, in the day of the vote and to adopt. Regarding the entities to which these restrictive measures apply, we have been thinking, so this circle of entities is quite wide, from countries, international organisations, domestic citizens, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, foreign citizens, domestic legal entities and foreign legal entities. We've been thinking about whether this circle of subjects should be expanded with terrorist organizations. However, by a deeper analysis, we realized that there was no unique definition of terrorist organisations, we felt that it was not necessary to put it into this law at the moment. My colleague Nejo Jovanovic will talk about it more. International measures can be different in their kind, can refer to diplomatic relations, economic and financial relations, different types of traffic, arms trade, asset availability and the ban on entering the Republic of Serbia and crossing its territory, or our territory. As far as arms trafficking is concerned, it is also one of our obligations to meet, since we have accepted a number of connections and contracts by the UN General Assembly, primarily a contract on arms trafficking, which defines ways of trade in arms, military equipment and dual-use goods. These measures are of a multilateral nature, i.e. measures applied by international organisations, in which the Republic of Serbia is a member and is obliged to respect the decisions of these organisations, as well as an organisation where Serbia is not a member, but to apply these measures in the foreign-political interest of the Republic of Serbia, as is the case with the EU, but also unilateral, i.e. the restrictive measures introduced by the Republic of Serbia on a second basis in accordance with international law. All the authorities of the Republic of Serbia are obliged to apply the measures provided for in this law. From the authorities of the State administration, i.e. the Ministry and other bodies, through the authorities of local self-government and to natural persons, they are obliged to apply these measures and that information on these measures and such information is required to deliver to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which will forward this information to international organisations, which has decided to apply the measure to their request. Also, this law regulates the keeping of records of restrictive measures, in a way that fully complies with the rules applicable, i.e. which regulate the area of data protection on the identity and confidentiality of data. The data to be recorded for legal and natural persons, as well as the restrictive measures to be applied, are precisely listed, by deleting such data from the records after five years from the end of the application of the restrictive measures. This area has so far not been regulated by law, and in this way the possibility of manipulation of such data is completely eliminated. In addition, until the adoption of this law, there was a general legal act in Serbia that would regulate this area, i.e. the introduction, implementation and abolition of international restrictive measures, where this was done on the basis of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which provides in Article 16, for the general rules of international law and ratified international contracts to become an integral part of the legal order of the Republic of Serbia and, as such, are directly applicable. This law gives Serbia a general legal act governing the area. As the president, the head of the SPS parliamentary group, said, the SPS MPs will also vote for the bill, as well as for the other two draft laws in this single search. I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u47996	The word is Dragan Nikolic. He's not here. The word is Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u47997	I would like to thank the President. Dear Ministers, the first Deputy Prime Minister, as already indicated by my colleagues, and above all by the chairman of the SPS parliamentary group, it is doubtless that the entire set of laws we are discussing today will be supported and the SPS parliamentary group will vote for them in the voting day. The subject of my discussion will be, as did the distinguished colleague Vanja Vukic, one of the laws, which must by one particular weight be concentrated in a special way. As I will present it, it will be more of a formal-legal aspect, and I have to point out something that none of the present, and especially the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, will doubt. It is this Government of the Republic of Serbia, led by Prime Minister Vukic and you respected ministers as the first Deputy Prime Minister, who managed to do something that no previous government had succeeded, which is that through this law and the legislative process in which we are actively participating, we are able to get the situation that we are from a country that was the subject of sanctions, which was the target of sanctions, we come to a country that enters or passes through the door of the EU and becomes no doubt a permanent member of the EU, with laws that regulate, the very matter that binds to certain restrictions that this law prescribes. This is a success, no doubt the immeasurable success of the government of the Republic of Serbia, I will repeat, a success that has not been done so far, a success that no one has been able to achieve, at least not in this way and not in these proportions. What am I pointing this out for? I point out for two simple reasons. The first reason is that, as said in the opening presentation of the first Deputy Prime Minister, harmonisation of our legislation with EU legislation is achieved. But that's not the only reason. One of the very important reasons is the fact that, just through this legislation, the Republic of Serbia appears as one of the carriers of security activities in one concept of security not only of Europe, but also of the world. We, actively participating, first of all, through the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Prime Minister, Foreign Minister and the Ministry themselves, have been able to come up with something that we haven't had in a long time, which is that security institutes, as defined by international law, are systematized into one law. All these restrictions just make sense. If we are talking about competences, and we need to talk about jurisdiction, then the government has received one of the most important responsibilities, and that jurisdiction is manifested in making decisions to introduce or remove appropriate restrictions, in accordance with the relevant international legal documents, international acts, as a legal basis for introducing such restrictions. For the sake of citizens, therefore, it should be said that Parliament has one obligation here to vote in such a law, to avoid political speculation, to avoid anything that involves political intrigue or plots. This law is not directed against anyone, but is therefore directed in favour of the Republic of Serbia. The law absolutely has no implications for any country Serbia is working with, especially Russia. This law is not preceded by anything that can be subjected to some kind of violation of one of our international legal positions and an extremely well-built relationship with our international partners, and here I am primarily referring to the Russian Federation. So, this law achieves what the EU asks of us, on the one hand, which requires international documents, and on the third hand, and, most importantly, the most important aspect of it, is to take commitments to protect the interests of the Republic of Serbia. And here, distinguished gentlemen, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the MPs, we have a pretty clear law and all the criticisms that are put into one, let's say, more vague, not clear enough, although we have support even from the opposition to this law, simply do not stand. I must therefore draw a few parts from this law that are essential. If we have already talked about the security concept, and we need to talk about the security concept as the first-class interest of the Republic of Serbia, which this government, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, has come to, then we will say that the establishment and preservation of international peace and security is precisely this excessive interest. Of course, in any case, the sublimation of these interests does not lag behind respect for international humanitarian rights, human rights and fundamental freedoms, but also respect for other international obligations. In that sense, all those restrictions that have been systematised in this law give full effect and I am confident, as well as the parliamentary group of the SPS, which I belong to, that in a practical sense this effect will be a hundred percent. Why? Because of the types of international measures and restrictions, we have sometimes suffered them, too, more unwarrantedly than justifiably, but we have also been through this stage of development, evolved and have come to what we are now, or what we have. Whether we will apply any of these measures, whether it will be an end to diplomatic relations, whether it will be a complete or partial interruption of economic and financial relations, an end to traffic, a ban on trade, a ban on entry into the territory of the Republic of Serbia, the availability of property that, for the sake of citizens, we must say, is indeed a Lex Specialis in this situation, because according to our Constitution, because under our Law on Fundamentals of Property-Legal Relations, it is the right of property to be absolutely and irreparably right, but when it comes to the international interest and interest of the Republic of Serbia in international frameworks, it must be limited and limited to exactly those international documents. As a lawyer, I must also refer to the Grand Charter of Freedoms and Rights of Men and Citizens – the Magna Carta libertatum, which is contained as a basic postulate in all international documents, which have been brought by both the UN and international organisations, where we have also signed appropriate and agreements, here we have confirmed them, or verified them, and after that very successfully applied them. Of course, everything that is systematized in this law involves very good quality solutions. I must point out one more of the solutions that I consider to be the reason here that we can be sure that this law in a practical sense will appear as a very, very good law, which is the fact that the monitoring of this law will be carried out by a working group that will be formed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and that it will be competent to monitor or monitor all that this law prescribes, all that is normised in this law, whether it will be practically realised or not. We MPs of the SPS are confident that it will indeed be so. My esteemed colleague Vukić Vanja has raised one question that is exclusively legal – why is this law not covered by terrorist organisations? It is not the proponent's fault, nor can it be the proponent's fault, and the proponent cannot bear responsibility for which the terrorist organisation as a legal institute is not defined by an appropriate international act, an appropriate international document. But that is why, as well as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and we who are participating in the legislative process, we should in some way be initiators that international bodies, international organisations, and the UN, when new international documents are created, that special treatment for terrorist organisations not as part of a social phenomenon, not as part of a social organisation, not as part of anything, but simply be defined by an international legal institute that implies appropriate legal treatment, i.e. appropriate regulation, as we will. Only then will we have what we seek in the legal sense of words, which is the integrity of norming, or the integrity of a law. We SPS MPs will insist on this because we consider this law to be extremely good. It will certainly be even more complete and quality when international documents are both better and more complete, and that will certainly be. Of course, at the very end, I want to point out the fact that because of this bill that I believe should be a role model for many other system acts, many other system laws, not only will we support it, but we express the belief that this government in the same format by 2020 will continue the activities that are now in place, that this government, in confidence to be in the same format, will end everything it has started, manage to realise all those objectives it has declared, that in 2020 we will enter through the door of the EU and that in 2020, regardless of all the doubts that are highlighted today and regardless of all the confusion in certain positions it has made, that this government will mark Serbia as a permanent member of the EU. I thank you, distinguished ministers and the first Deputy Prime Minister, on behalf of all of us in the SPS parliamentary group, for an extremely high-quality bill that we will certainly adopt as a whole in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u47998	I thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u47999	Thank you. The Honored Chairman, respected ministers with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, we have three agreements on the agenda today, or three draft laws on agreements in the field of foreign policy. What I must point out at the outset is that this government, headed by Prime Minister Alexander Vukic and, of course, at the head of you, Mr Dacic, as foreign minister, in the previous period and for this time, has made great efforts and demonstrated its responsibility and its seriousness that Serbia, not only is an active associate, but an active partner recognised by the whole of Europe, the whole world, and that, ultimately, the Republic of Serbia, when viewed at regional level, is surrounded by direct states, former SFRJ republics, is certainly a leader. First of all, I want to say that these three agreements are significant with three aspects. The first aspect is to further establish good bilateral relations between countries. This is specifically about establishing good bilateral relations, which we do have, between the government of RS and the Government of Lebanon, when it comes to lifting visas for official and diplomatic passports. What we must certainly mention is that this government and your ministry are ready to continue to lead bilateral policy in a responsible and serious way. From the point of view of the security and security of the Republic of Serbia, from the aspect of the establishment of an adequate legal framework, when it comes to conventions, i.e. when it comes to UN resolutions, I must highlight the confirmation of the Law on International Limitation Measures stemming from the membership of the Republic of Serbia to the UN and, of course, come from the Charter of the UN, of Chapter VII, article 41 relating to international restrictive measures. Why is this law important from the point of view of the Republic of Serbia? Because international restrictive measures... The legal framework shall be established and the procedures for the introduction, enforcement and abolition of international restrictive measures shall be established, the exact coordination and jurisdiction of the competent institutions shall be determined, the way in which the security measures can be applied, the types of those measures determined and, of course, the criminal liability determined. What I have to point out is that this law on international restrictive measures is being implemented by the Foreign Ministry, but the Foreign Ministry is also forming a task force responsible for monitoring these measures. Also, from the level of transparency, as much as necessary, I must point out that international restrictive measures the Ministry proposes to the government, the government makes a decision, and they are published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia". Of course, I must point out that the confirmation of this law is quite significant from the aspect of the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the EU and refers to Chapter 31, which is foreign, security and defence policy. I must point out that in the national programme of the accession of the Republic of Serbia, the EU is listed as one of the priorities. As far as the Madrid Convention is concerned, I must point out that it was brought back in 1980, that the accession of this Convention began in 1981, that the Republic of Serbia has been a member of the Council of Europe since 2003 and that the validation of this Convention has, above all, been of great importance, from the aspect of cross-border co-operation of states, as well as the co-operation of local and regional self-government. The Madrid Convention, I must also point out, that additional protocols, other than agreements, provide for cross-border co-operation between countries that are not territorially borderlined. So there is possible cooperation between countries that are not territorially borderlined. Also, she admits two models in making an agreement. One model is in the exclusive jurisdiction of states, when it comes to cross-border co-operation agreements, and another model is the signing of contracts, agreements, statutes between territorial communities or authorities, and in accordance with their international legal capacities and national legislation. I must point out that in the signing of this Convention, the Republic of Serbia has made a statement stressing that the Republic of Serbia, precisely in the signing of these agreements and agreements relating to territorial communities or authorities, has the only international legal capacity and only has international legal subjectivity when it comes to such agreements. Such an agreement, confirming this Convention, is very important for the Republic of Serbia, is important from both local and regional aspects, because it is intruding towards improving the quality of life of the country's citizens, i.e. one region or one local self-government, and it is precisely because agreements can be signed in order to bring about economic strengthening, to strengthen tourism, in the area of culture, to strengthen, ultimately, the effectiveness of their tasks as competent local self-government, regional communities, and thus also to the state. The Serbian Progressive Party stands firmly in the way of European integration. Last year, as far as foreign policy is concerned, one historic success has been achieved, which is the opening of Chapters 32 and 35. We believe that both adoption and these laws show the European definition of this government and SNS in voting day will support all three agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u48000	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u48001	I thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, first Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Dacic, honourable fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic, and I come from the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, which is Svrljig municipality, which is next to the most beautiful city in Serbia, and that is Nis bastard. I will talk about a set of these laws, but I will put an accent on the Law confirming the European Framework Convention on Cross-border Cooperation between Territorial Communities or Authorities. The Republic of Serbia has accepted a series of commitments from the Council of Europe since 3 April 2003, including the accession of the Council of Europe. The Madrid Convention aims to foster the co-operation of local and regional authorities among states signatories through the conclusion of an agreement on cross-border co-operation, with a view to improving economic co-operation, regional development, urban and rural development, transport, tourism and everything else. I will talk here about these concrete things, just as far as the work of local self-government is concerned, as I come, I said earlier, from the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, it is the Svrlig municipality, which has a lot of problems as well as other municipalities in southeastern Serbia, as well as in other parts of Serbia. But I will look more at this part of Southeast Serbia where there is a big problem with this and where by signing and confirming this agreement, it will give the possibility that local self-governments can be much easier and much faster to compete, to get funds for cross-border co-operation, and so tomorrow that they can improve their living conditions, for themselves, for their cities, for their villages. So, for the first time, as we heard earlier, the Madrid Convention was, it was started with it long ago in 1981, but we will finally succeed and we will be able to ratify it, confirm and thus give the possibility for the state of Serbia to stand behind these local self-government, behind these local communities, and that if there are a large number of these local communities that can't compete, or they can compete, but they don't have enough resources to provide for participation in these projects, by confirming this agreement, they will have the opportunity to compete with these local self-governments, to get funds and thus to improve the lives of their citizens in those territories. As we have just heard from my previous colleagues and speakers, I will vote in favour of the set of all these laws, because I truly fully support the direction of the government led by our Prime Minister Vukic, together with you Deputy Prime Minister Dacic, and I am sure that by signing this protocol and confirming this agreement, we will give the possibility to many local self-governments, they will be able to compete, receive funds and thus provide better living conditions. We put an emphasis on agriculture, because I think agriculture is a fundamental element in our country's development, and with a special reference to this part of Southeast Serbia where nature has given us everything, where we can through these cross-border cooperation projects, with the support of, normally, as I said just before the government and our Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic, that we all together provide local self-government for the first time, because so far, the state of Serbia had no possibility. Only by signing this agreement will it be possible for local self-government, unless we have the means to participate, to gain and guarantee the state of Serbia. In this way tomorrow we will provide safe, accessible roads in all our municipalities with, as I just said, mountainous mountainous areas, rural settlements are very endangered, where we will be able to build our villages and water, and sewerage, and access roads. In particular, my municipality has a large number of caves that are very interesting, where through these projects cross-border co-operation we will solve the access roads to these caves, provide tourists and through these tourists the opportunity to sell quality scrawny cheese, crescene belmuž, i.e. scrip Viagra, svržična lamb, and other products from our surroundings, such as the pyrotic sausage and other really quality products from our municipalities. The municipality of Svrljig from which I come has now applied for three projects of cross-border co-operation, where I expect we will succeed through these projects to finish the start of the sports hall that began in 1995, 1996. I am sure that through this cross-border cooperation project we will be able to solve the wastewater collector and thus allow Timok to be cleaner and healthier where we will be able to do much better and better in tourism, fishing. I am counting on this project to provide certain funds for the restoration of the cultural centre through which we will provide a museum, because through our Svrjig once upon a time there were Roman roads where there are great excavations, where there are very good things found in the previous period, and we do not have a museum and we want to get funds and tomorrow open a museum where I am sure that there are a number of people, because as we all know our government, and our Prime Minister and our Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Zoran Mihajlovic, said in a previous period that there will be a road construction from Svrlig to the Old Mountain, where we will have the possibility of solving this road, the airport in Nis, to bring as many tourists from the EU, from all other countries of the world, to Nis, to visit Nis, to all the beauty of the city of Nis and the environment. To come across Svrlig and to go normally across that path which is even closest to Svrlig towards the Old Mountain, there to go, to visit, to rest there, and thus we will use these means that allow local self-governments to compete. I am sure by confirming and signing this agreement we will give you a greater opportunity to have these local self-governments, where there is an accent on southeastern Serbia, because we have had a number of cross-border co-operation projects where only certain regions could compete. I call on all those in charge, I am sure that the government of the Republic of Serbia, led by our prime minister, will recognise the southeast of Serbia where there is a great need for state aid, and on the other hand, this signing will also give us EU assistance and funding. In this way we will also enable new employment, here yesterday we saw in Vranje the opening of a new factory where we got the new 1,200 jobs. I am sure that during this and next year we will put an accent on and solve the problem in other parts of Southeast Serbia. I'd like to do some things in Svrlig, Književci, Babusnica and the White Palanca and all those parts of our beautiful Serbia, because as I was saying earlier, nature has given us everything. This should be used, to protect the environment through cross-border cooperation projects. Again, by confirming this agreement, the state of Serbia will be a guarantee that some things will end, and on the other hand there will be a guarantee of participation, because we are witnessing that a large number of local self-governments do not have the basic resources, those 10% to 15% to participate in projects where these projects can be made even more resources. As a representative of the United Peasant Party, elected from the SNS list, I will vote for a set of all these draft laws with satisfaction, because I am sure that our Government, headed by our prime minister, Mr Vucic, will continue to work in the next period with full capacity, with the support of the full part of our people, because I am sure and 100% that we will join the EU together with our Prime Minister, Mr Vukic and all those who are there, that our country will feel the EU's blessings. On the other hand, normally, we're going to use those benefits we have with the Russian Federation, because I think that's the right way. Once again, our government is leading the right policy and for the first time we are the most recognizable in the Balkans and in this part of Europe as a country that has capacity, which has a real leader that everyone in the world appreciates. I repeat once again, I will vote for a set of all these laws, for proposals, to confirm an agreement with satisfaction as president of the United Peasants' Party elected from the SNS list.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u48002	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u48003	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think all MP groups are less agreeable that we have three rather good laws ahead of us. That we are not to say, absolutely agreeable, we are, but that the Minister, the Government, will consider the amendments that are given I am sure that perhaps those controversial issues that we have at this point, which are very little and which we have addressed through the amendments in the debate on amendments. These three laws may not be large in their scope, but they are extremely significant. First of all, they represent Serbia's international commitment on the one hand, then they are also important for Serbia's integration into an international legal order where we lag behind for a known reason, the 1990s have done their part. They are also important for Serbia's economy, because they encourage the development of the dedicated industry on the one hand, and especially when it comes to the Law on Cross-border Co-operation, they also allow the development of the economy of suburban municipalities before the world and, of course, the whole of Serbia, because the convention is of paramount importance in this economic work. What is important to point out at this point is that it seems to me that, above all, this law relating to the measures of limitations is extremely important when it comes to the security of Serbian citizens. The fact is that globalisation carries a lot of good things with it in almost all areas, but also that globalisation involves increasing the world's security risks for all countries and for all citizens, and also implies a greater risk for Serbian citizens and without good co-operation with other countries, without good co-operation with the international community, certainly that these security threats cannot be solved so easily. So, in this sense, of course, as I said, the most important law on restrictive measures is that law, apart from the peace and security that should enable citizens of our country, also generally allows respect for human rights and international humanitarian law to fully and fully respect and sanction those who do not adhere to these principles in the international legal order. It should also be said that when it comes to sanctions, it is certain that we are carrying a single scar from the 1990s and, to some extent, there is a cramp when it comes to this law, but given that international opportunities are changing, that there is no doubt a multipolar world appears, that developing countries are making very rapid progress, that they are seeking their voice in international institutions, I am convinced that in the future we will have a much more complex one international policy, and in this sense all the measures that will be taken in the United Nations, in the Security Council, will be much more balanced and much more measured than those we were exposed to in the 1990s. In addition to the economic blockade, above all, they refer to the trade in arms, to the movement of the person, to the availability of the property of individual persons, and in that sense, the economic blockade measures are one extreme measure that is relatively rare. The law itself is good and in the part in which it binds all the institutions of Serbia, it means, on the one hand, binding them and clearly defining their responsibility, of course and the procedures that are implemented under this law, but it is also good for those to whom the limits are carried out. So legal and natural persons who fall below these limits have their rights defined by law, above all, in the area of protection of personality data, then have full insight into the records. The data that are in that record shall be corrected, and such data shall be deleted if they are found to have been introduced by some error or by part of the property, if they are wrong. So we also have a complete legislative project that should be supported and commended in every sense, commend the government, commend the ministry and say it is balanced both towards the international community and towards those whose limits are being imposed. As for this second law on cross-border co-operation, it is good that today minority representatives have expressed a great deal of praise about this law, because it is perfectly normal that they are the most interested in this law, because there is also perhaps the highest concentration of national minorities in Serbia, which is quite normal and what is happening in other countries of Europe and the world. It's a good thing this law, this convention that the law on the convention we adopt, does not just involve business co-operation. He implies co-operation in almost all areas of life and work. So, co-operation when it comes to regional development, when it comes to transport, tourism, ecology, culture. I am sure that we will be pleased with all the cross-border municipalities and that it will mean serious, of course, first of all, economic, but also any other progress of these environments. What I think is good in the law itself, which enables different modalities when it comes to an agreement that is signed and which, on the other hand, also implies the full equality of the countries that sign that convention. As far as visa law is concerned, lifting visas between Lebanon and Serbia is just the beginning, I would say, of a much better co-operation between our two countries. He is currently referring to diplomatic, special and official passports, but given the situation in the Middle East, the security situation, given the large number of migrants at the moment, I don't think we could have expected any more, but I am quite sure that the government will do its best in the coming period as international opportunities change, that things are getting better in this area too. So, today, we have one serious agreement between the parliamentary groups. This also means that we have a similar vision of a foreign policy of Serbia in a future period, which is very good. On the other hand, to commend the government, it means that a fragmentism is being handled by the government in the area of foreign policy. I am sure that as far as this fragmatism is concerned, the government will continue in this sense in the future and I am convinced that in the day that we will have the opportunity to discuss amendments, possibly some of the amendments of these laws, and that we will have, I must say, and not so often the opportunity for almost all MPs of the National Assembly to vote for these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u48004	Thank you, Mr. Antic. The word is by MP Enis Imamovic. Here you go, Mr. Imamovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u48005	Thank you. I would like to refer to the law on the request of the European Framework Conference on Cross-border Co-operation with regard to the aspect of the minority regional party representing the Bosniaks, the Sandzak region and in this way I would like to contribute, too, to the general consensus that we have in today's discussion on this law. This convention that we are confirming today is a good basis for establishing cross-border co-operation, which is of multiple importance for the Sandzak region. By definition, the European cross-border region is a territorial unit made up of several regional or local authorities interconnected, although they do not belong to the same countries, although they are part of two different sovereign states, as is the case with Sandzak, which is exactly that. Its northern and southern parts represent a binding tissue between two neighbouring countries, in our case Serbia-Montenegro, as two future EU members. By adopting this Convention, we take advantage of the potential for achieving objectives in areas such as regional, urban and rural development, environmental protection, improvement of public relief, services and mutual assistance in emergency situations. The practice has just shown that cross-border co-operation based on the principles of this Convention facilitates an effective improvement in the development of border regions. This is particularly important for Sandzak, because in its northern and southern parts of both borders live members of the same people, and even the same families with identical views and identical needs in the fields of education, information, use of languages and letters, culture, etc. For centuries in harmony there have been members of different nationalities, different religions. By confirming this convention, we are in fact confirming the spirit of the unity of the peoples who unite the idea of the European Union. With this, SDA Sandzak MPs will give their unreserved support in the day of voting to adopt this European Convention on Cross-border Co-operation. I am also taking this opportunity to call on the Government of the Republic of Serbia to call on all parties, especially those parliamentary ones, to define that middle level of government and Sandzak's status of autonomy together when we change the political system in the Republic of Serbia. The introduction of this mid-level government will facilitate implementation, implementation even of this Convention that we are adopting today. After all, it is something that is predicted and proposed by Article 5 of this Convention that we are adopting today. It is no doubt that one of the benefits of such co-operation will be to preserve and strengthen the good neighbouring relations of the two countries, as I said, in our case, are Serbia-Montenegro, and Bosniaks, like all Sandzak citizens, will gladly accept that role on themselves. What this Convention also provides, and what we see as an exceptional possibility in Sandzak, is an effort to remove any administrative difficulties that could interfere with the development and smooth work of cross-border co-operation. This is particularly important in the first order because of the Sanjay producers of milk and milk products, meat and meat products. So far practice has shown that so-called They claim the borders and the lack of those fitness sanitary controls at the border crossing, which our businesses use, and how they make this economic co-operation more difficult, and thus make economic development more difficult. We asked for such conditions when the last amendments and additions to the Customs Act were made. At that time, however, the conditions were obviously not mature. We believe that this Convention, that the adoption of this Convention, will also help to achieve this need faster at border crossings. Through the adoption of this Convention, opportunities are opened for reliefs that we can use as a country from funds that promote cross-border co-operation, European funds. As a state, we will have to realise some rather expensive projects, such as those in the areas of wastewater treatment, collection, disposal, recycling of waste, as well as renewable energy sources, which can be financed from European funds of cross-border co-operation, this places huge opportunities for both Serbia and Montenegro. Countries that do not take advantage of these opportunities will later be obliged to finance these systems from their own resources, and also to pay for large foams because they did not apply these conditions. These are some of the reasons why in the voting day we will support the adoption of this Framework Convention because we believe it contributes to the realisation of those issues and the resolution of those issues that are of multiple benefit to our country's European path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u48006	I thank Mr. Imamovic. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word before the conclusion of a joint, principled and uniform search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? (No) The word has the first Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Mr Ivica Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u48007	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't know who's here anymore, who's not one of those who's been asking certain questions, but I'm gonna try to say something about what's been said, what you said and what you've been asking questions. First, one of the remarks was why it does not say that we will meet the obligations that come from the EU. Lawmakers who have helped write, besides our ministry, believe it cannot be written that obligations from an organisation whose member we are not, which is of course not disputed to add to any formulation that would imply that this is in Serbia's foreign political interest without resulting from membership that we do not have in that organisation. Undoubtedly, this is not about wanting to avoid the EU, but simply about being able to apply and you have to apply in those organisations where you are members. When it comes to the EU, we are not a member and we are joining, just defining what we are going to apply and what we are not going to do. For example, in the UN you have nothing to decide for yourself, in the UN it doesn't matter if you voted yes or no, you have to apply the decision. In the OSCE, of course, it is decided by consensus, so that the decision cannot be made. When it comes to the EU, as you know, you yourself have explained, Serbia has an obligation to bring its foreign, security and defence policy into line with EU membership. That doesn't mean that this law is now passed because of it. Given some specific topics, it's about the regulation of this whole area that is very important to us, because, among other things, you know, I'm just going to give you one example. Ukraine until a year and a few days ago, you know that we were being pressured by why we didn't impose sanctions on Russia, and Ukraine didn't impose sanctions on Russia, or, to be precise, it made a decision to join, but it didn't have this law on how to make it concrete and operational. There was an illogical situation, that now the whole of Europe had sanctions, the EU against Russia, and Ukraine that is directly in conflict continued to have normal relations and economic relations with Russia. So also here, when you ask, Serbia now that it joins something in terms of certain EU decisions does not have a clearly precise mechanism until this law how it will be achieved and realised. That is why it is important that this law be passed and that is one, it is not adopted because of the EU, to be understood, it is from the conditions for Chapter 31, but we have not yet opened this chapter. On the other hand, the law is important to regulate the procedure and set a systemic solution to what to do in conditions when Serbia is to implement international restrictive measures. When it comes to titles, the name is somehow harmonised and agreed with the EU and perhaps also some surrounding countries, although some countries have this as a restrictive measure, others have restrictive measures, the legislation believes that a better name of restriction is a better name, because it refers to specific topics, even parts of certain problems, and when it comes to restrictive ones, it might mean a slightly more vague part of us, and I believe that people do not know who these restrictive measures are being imposed against, not even on any UN list at all, and various other lists that exist. We will gradually align our foreign policy. Our foreign policy is harmonised in a number of ways, one that is formally legal for us to join EU positions. We're in trouble because we're not members. When we are members, we can speak our views in the decision-making process. We are only here on the move when the EU makes a decision and we need to apply something that is in our national and national interest. I will say that it is in the interest and that we are members of the EU, but also to take care of some of our strategic interests. I'll say it specifically. You know, you can't ask some countries to vote for us at the Union General Conference at the same time and we can join in measures against them. It's supposed to be evaluated, and that's not easy. But I think every country in the world does that, and we also have to have an understanding for ourselves. If anyone else already has no understanding of our needs and problems, we must have the need to understand our position. When it comes to Moldova, someone asked - why didn't we join Moldova, I don't know exactly who asked, or restrictive measures against Moldova, the EU? You know why? 'Cause that's what it's all about, Prednistrovlje. By the time I was the chairman of the OSCE, or Serbia, Serbia had a representative who was a permanent representative for Prinestrovlje. In these conditions, you know, we should join restrictive measures against the people we need to talk to, and that man of ours should work with them. This is practically impossible and all the countries that chaired the OSCE have practically not joined in some measures, because it simply does not put you in a neutral position. When it comes to Russia, you all know that we have no intention of joining the sanctions, and we want to and hope that those that were abolished as soon as possible, as a country that was subject to sanctions. I also think that it is clear to everyone that sanctions are not a way to solve political problems in certain countries. But here the problem is that there are some issues that are not of a political nature, but you have a fight against terrorism, illegal arms trafficking, and these are some obligations in international relations that Serbia, of course, must carry out, regardless of what we ourselves were victims of sanctions. The amendments that have been filed, there are 24 of them, I'm talking about this first law, they're really going to be considered on one level of expertise. So there's no problem that everything that's in the interest should be accepted. We have no reason to say no, because we had, for example, Chapter 32. Now here's one example, when we're talking about the name. So we had chapter 32. - financial control. However, there are our people who feel that it should be called different, that it does not conform to our language. But you can't make it up now, you take one structure that exists, and it's in all the documents right now. So, we'll see if this stays like this or we'll accept some amendments, like you said. The European Union cannot enter the text as an organisation. I don't think it's realistic to enter the EU as an organisation whose member we are not, but I think that formulas can be made that will mean that we need to implement these measures and when it comes to organisations whose member we're not, and when it's in our foreign policy interest, or some kind of formulation that would satisfy what we're talking about. I'm sorry we didn't discuss the foreign policy strategy in parliament. As you know, I have, and I have said this many times, suggested that we find some topic, since the strategy is not envisaged, it does not exist as such. So, he's predicting now that we're discussing in parliament. I was ready, remember, and that's what I said on the board, that we had some issues and points where it doesn't have to be some law now, because it's hard to define what we'd be discussing, but that I'm absolutely ready to discuss foreign policy issues at every committee or parliament session. That's very difficult. It is not an easy job to establish foreign policy attitudes, because it is not just what is happening in our region. The relations between Armenia and Azerbaijan are such that it is simply difficult, conflicts of interests, and both countries are our friendly countries. We had a situation that Armenia voted against Kosovo's accession, and Azerbaijan didn't come to the hall because Turkey called him. On the other hand, you have situations where Armenia may have voted differently in other organizations. That is why, what Marija Obradovic was also talking about, regardless of what the government does not want to instruct MPs on how to vote, it is very important that we have, as I say, a good assessment of what we should do on the foreign policy plan. I have personally witnessed that we have had major problems with the General Conference of UNESCO, because our MPs voted on a text that is in the interest of Azerbaijan in some committee of the Council of Europe. Then I was called by the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Armenia who said it was repeated year after year, that they would not vote for us in UNESCO. In the end, I somehow persuaded him along with the President of Parliament that we still have a proper relationship with Armenia. Then in the end, Azerbaijan doesn't come to the vote, and I get this half an hour before Erdogan calls Ali. So we need consultations on all of this, because it's not easy and it's not easy how you're going to set yourself up at a certain point. When it comes to Libya and our workers who have been kidnapped, I must say, unfortunately, and even two or three members of the Libyan parliament have been kidnapped, we have immediately made a team that references Prime Minister Vukic to the situation. Believe me, we haven't had any official contact. No one came to us from those who took them. So all our contacts went through Libyan security services. At this point, what the Libyan security services are saying is that they are doing well and hope that it will be resolved quickly. Of course, we've been hearing this for a few months now, but we're really powerless. I even wanted to go there myself, but we have a problem because we don't know who to talk to. We're not a big country that would send its troops there to solve it, but we're going to try a political pathway of whatever we can do. Of course that still remains our priority. When it comes to citizenship, what I think Veselinovic asked, I cannot repeat that name he said, but in general I want to say that there are clearly specified conditions for obtaining citizenship. The issue of citizenship is within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of the Interior and the exact conditions are that someone can get our citizenship and, of course, in what cases the Government decides when it comes to some people we can say is of interest to be our citizens. In this case, it is obvious that it is in our interest that some people get citizenship in order to help either our foreign policy relations or, ultimately, to achieve some results in that area for which they are significant, whether it is some actors, cultural workers, etc. You remember I wanted to give my citizenship to Adriana Lima in my time. Unfortunately, she never came for it, and she got divorced. Although, at the time I told her, there was also Marko Jaric, that the condition was for him to be married for three years. But we have things that are of foreign policy interest to us, and there are also, I don't think it's any problem that someone has gained citizenship because no one can get citizenship if there are any security concerns, whether it's a suspicion of terrorism or any other criminal activity. Don't let us look for anything bad in that. I would be happy if there were any more of those who were getting our citizenship, that they could invest in Serbia. You know there are some countries that even motivate and stimulate citizenship if someone invests more than I don't know how much, I think it was 500,000. I think even Montenegro had such a law. We don't have that. So we don't have that citizenship buy, but I don't really see anything wrong with that. I have to say, I'm really proud of the results this government has achieved when it comes to these topics that we've talked about here. I think we've managed to achieve a good result, historically important, when it comes to UNESCO. Maybe it didn't seem so serious to someone. But I will only remind myself that the way to decide in these organizations is such that it is necessary to separate those who vote in favour and those who vote against those who do not participate at all or are abstentions. You now have a situation that is somewhere in 106 countries, about what we think is so, Kosovo thinks there are more because they account for some of which we are sure they did not recognise Kosovo. Now these other 90s and something needs to be voted against. Then they are pressured not to vote against Kosovo, but to be abstentioned. In that situation he was real, I must say, a heroic undertaking that we even succeeded in action when they were all sure it would be different. We didn't fight Kosovo. You know, there was America, England, France, Germany, Turkey, the Arab world. I can say that we are extremely pleased that we have shown that we can't do everything by force. The next point that will wait for us is the UN, where the situation is such that, by the same principle of vote, we really need to be maximumly focused on caring for relations with the countries that voted for us when there was a vote in UNESCO. We have many examples of history that we usually prefer to court our opponents rather than cultivate friendly relations with countries that are traditionally our own. I would indeed call on all the authorities, I think that Parliament is doing well in terms of this parliamentary diplomacy and that it should continue to do so. I don't know if you asked me anything else that you didn't think I answered. I'm sorry the Foreign Affairs Act didn't come, but that's what I said on the board, we wanted to do it, but the EU insisted on doing it a little slower to comply with this chapter 31, so that we don't bring the law twice. I think it's important that this law be passed and it will surely be a priority for our ministry. We were planning on doing it by the end of this year. Of course, as someone said, this may be the last time we come into this system, but as far as I'm concerned, believe me, for a long time I've been in politics, I'm sure we'll see each other more, maybe not all of us, but I'm also sure that this government, of course, everyone on its electoral list, that we'll all have, I'm sure, more than 60% of the votes, I don't know how many mandates, so I expect to continue working in a similar composition or in the same composition and in the next term. We may not be seeing Mr. Veselinović, but we will be watching each other here for sure. Thank you very much. I'll see you the day after tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u48008	I thank you, Mr. Minister. We will be very happy to see you in Parliament again. I am concluding a joint principle and uniform search on the draft laws referred to in points 1, 2 and 3 of the agenda. I'm setting a break to 15.00 hours, and then there's a sequel to the fourth item of the agenda. In accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm now setting a break of up to 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u48009	Dear Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they are invited to attend today's session: Vanja Udovic, Minister of Youth and Sports, Predrag Peruničić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Youth and Sports, Uroš Zekovic, Assistant Minister of Youth and Sports and Zorica Nikodijevic, Secretary of the Youth and Sports Ministry. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. Does the proposer's representative, Vanja Udovicic, the youth and sports minister, want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u48010	The President-in-Office, honourable MPs and MPs, I am pleased to have the opportunity to present today a proposal for a law on sports. What I want to point out is that this bill is the result of the widest consensus of all in the system of sports. I had the opportunity to participate and conduct public debates that were in 10 cities throughout Serbia. Before the public debates, I had the opportunity to sit with all the representatives of our largest alliances and get written support from them, and in the public debates themselves, I had the opportunity to discuss precisely all those legal solutions and proposals aimed at improving the system of sports. What I want to point out is that a detailed comparative analysis, both at national and international level, has been carried out in the drafting of this bill. When it comes to national level, this law is in line with 11 laws that were passed from 2011 to today. When it comes to international harmonisation, it is primarily meant to comply with international sport rules, because sport is specific in that you have to adapt to these rules, so that our teams and clubs at international level can compete and participate. In light of the scope of the law, I will, in the shortest possible, only make some of the most important solutions proposed by this law. Since it is a prerequisite for a healthy life and a healthy nation to play sports, I will begin the exhibition with provisions that aim to motivate children to enter the sports system and motivate parents to introduce children into sports. The desire is for sport not to be the privilege of individuals, the privilege of the rich. The desire is to allow all citizens of the Republic of Serbia to be able to play sports and have absolutely the right to do so, not limited by financial means. The bill aims to eliminate any kind of discrimination, abuse and other negative phenomena in sport. What is true in today's day, that sport is exposed to the great impact of negative effects and desires is to protect exactly what is considered to be the purest and most qualitative of all that is negative in today's day. In addition, for the first time, the issue of using personal sportsmen's personal data has been detailed. One of the most important newspapers that we are introducing, which is proposed, is that health care for children from six to 14 years of age is covered by compulsory health insurance and that it is absolutely free when conducted in health institutions and institutions. We want to ease every family's budget, we want to reduce our family's burdens when it comes to sports, because the truth is, when you take how much membership costs, how much travel, equipment, everything that requires sports to do today, a lot of people are pulling away from the idea of playing sports, and that's why we want to make it possible for everyone, as much as it is in our power, to motivate them to enter the sports system. When it comes to membership fees, what we propose is that membership fees for minor athletes cannot exceed 10% of the average earnings in the Republic of Serbia. Detailed areas of preschool, school and university sport are regulated. Also, the bill regulates the status of manager in sports, especially when it ends with a minor athlete. Those provisions we propose are that the contract between the manager and the athlete must be certified according to the law, when it comes to underage athletes, must have both parents' approval, because we think that this is the best way to protect the child's interest. It is necessary that the contract contains rights and obligations, both one and the other, and that it is limited to a maximum of two years, and that it can be renewed and that the amount of money for which the representative represents the athlete is clearly put. The bill regulates sports transfers. We recognize national and international transfers. When it comes to international transfers, they are banned, or are allowed under strict rules by international sports organisations. When it comes to national transfers, we introduce clear rules under which conditions a child-sporter can move from one environment to another. We pay particular attention to minor athletes, because I can tell you on a personal case, I've seen my colleagues who have gone from a smaller environment to a larger environment, in this particular case, come to Belgrade, and because of the negative influence, perhaps the greatest talents in my sport have disappeared and been lost. That's why we believe that every child who moves to another environment has the right to quality and real development, to know where he lives, to know how to feed, what kind of health care he has, does he continue his education? Basically, to take care of that child, especially when he's unsupervised by his parents. Given the huge gray area in which the sport is currently in place, we suggest that future contracts in sport and all annex contracts are certified according to the law. We want to get out of sports fictitious contracts. We want tax and tax evasion to become the past. We want to introduce a clear and transparent system when it comes to sports contracts, and we think that every athlete has the right to work because we think it is unfair for a sportsman to get out of the sport after his career without working day. We also want the state to benefit more from these contracts and therefore we want all contracts to be seductive and certified in accordance with the law. When it comes to insurance, we introduce mandatory insurance for coaches, as well as all athletes who perform for the team. It happened to me personally that in 2012, when I was preparing for the London Olympics, I suffered an injury and that I had no health insurance at the time. My career has been at stake, and my performance for the national team and going to the London Olympics has been questioned, because I didn't even pay attention at the time whether I was insured or not. In order for this not to happen in the future, we want every sportsman who performs for the team to be provided during the performance for the team. Now that I mention the national team, what I suggest is that the future national team has its unique visual identity. What we want to break is that our athletes are colorful and traveling caravans and walking billboards. It is incomprehensible for me to be proportionate to sponsors, proportionate to other players in sports, they determine which color uniforms, caps, colors for which our athletes perform, where there are no clear rules where the coat of arms is, where the flag is, where the Republic of Serbia writes. Exactly, our wish is for the athlete to identify himself with his team and that when we look at our athlete, we immediately know that he comes from the Republic of Serbia. What we want to change, and what is indisputable in Serbian sport, is that at the highest leading functions it gravitates between 30 and 40 people. It's no secret if I tell you that one man performs over 10 functions. That is why we want to introduce this standard that will make healthy competition in sport, and that will enable young people to contribute to the development of the sport system itself. In addition, we want to root out that the function in sport is considered a privilege rather than a commitment, so we increase the responsibility of the members of the authorities, we set up who cannot be a member of the administration and introduce new obligations. Report of conflict of interest, keeping business secrets and other. We think doing a job in sports is absolutely every man's responsibility. That it is not considered to function in sports when traveling, to see the world, and to be absolutely managed without a single shred of responsibility. Furthermore, the bill very detailedly regulates the association as a basic form of organisation in sport. All issues are regulated for the functioning of the association, from the beginning to the termination of work, and the important solutions proposed are the following: Opening up opportunities for the association to directly carry out economic activity, only one and a half strict rules, so that it can establish a company for the purpose of obtaining funds for work. We therefore allow the club to obtain funds in other ways, but that these funds must be fully returned to the basic functioning of the club itself, i.e. sports. It also opened the possibility of establishing a sports company by the association, to which the right to compete would be transferred, but to which all rights and obligations of the association would be transferred. It is also possible that if, for any reason, the association cannot continue to function, it has the right by decision of its assembly to transfer all rights and obligations to the local self-government unit, if the local self-government unit decides to accept all the rights and obligations of the association. In addition, the bill regulates both the status and the work of a sports and business society. We believe that it is necessary to go towards professionalising sports and therefore we want to develop in a much larger form the form of the organisation of sports business society. When it comes to sports arbitration, it is adapted to the general applicable regime, with the recognition of the specific needs of sport. What we are opening up is that the Olympic Committee of Serbia, the Sports Union of Serbia, the Paralympic Committee of Serbia and the alliances can establish a permanent sports court. This is something that we will seek in the next period, which we consider a modern need for Serbian sport and we even think that this solution deserves a place in a special law. When it comes to the Olympic Committee of Serbia, the Sports Alliance of Serbia, the Paralympic Committee, as well as the institutions, as the most forms of organisation, we recognize them, we also consider them our biggest partners and we want to exploit their capacities, increase their responsibilities, but we also extend their competences. Also, this bill deals very closely with the issue of sports financing. The proposal retains the programme's funding of sports in the Republic of Serbia. What the practice has shown is that funding at the level of the Republic works well, but that the objective problem is the functioning of funding at the site. This is why we want to improve the system of functioning and funding at the bar, so that "small clubs" too, so that those who did not have the opportunity to reach the funds in the future can compete and reach the funds themselves. The norms they aim to change exactly this situation are that the local self-government unit has to adopt a funding rule. The funds can't be shared without transparent and clear rules, we can't have a privileged club that's the only one who can get funds at the bar and we need to break the privilegeds in the sport. We're introducing a restriction that no sports organization can get more than 20% of the sports budget. As I said, it was happening on the ground that one organization gets over 90% of the funds, and that the organization doesn't deserve by any standard to get those funds, that there are many other, more quality clubs in this unit of local self-government that can get funds from the unit of local self-government. Furthermore, every annual programme financed must be, that it contains a minimum part of the programme that applies to children as well. What we're proposing is that 15% of every program must be defined for children in sports. It gives the possibility to set up a national sports development fund. We open up the possibility that clubs can also get a prize when they achieve the highest score in the international highest competition. When it comes to alliances, the law introduces a clear pyramidal structure of sport. What we want to recognize is as a republic of one competent national border sports alliance. In practice, it happens that for one branch of sport, we have more alliances that try to be competent, which organise national competitions. It is not known which of the national competitions are given, it is not known which athlete is the winner of the national competition, which athlete will represent us next year in international competitions and therefore we want to introduce a clear, transparent, pyramidal structure and identify only one competent national border sports alliance. We leave the possibility that others can join together, but the general interest we want to carry out only through that alliance. We increase the responsibility of those who have public funds. We'd like to introduce a professional sports exam. I have to tell you that I've experienced people sitting across from me who have years of experience in sports and who don't know that there's a law on sports, that they don't know that there are rules, that they don't know the basics of business. That's why we want to raise the scale more, that's why we want to strengthen responsibility, where we ask that the organization has employed or engaged one person who has completed a professional, sports exam. Next, we ask the Alliance to bring in a four-year plan. We want that four-year plan on the one hand to follow them, and on the other hand to be a checkpoint for them and to see what the priorities of these alliances are. Furthermore, we ask the organizations to publish sports rules, but to publish final financial and audit reports. We're absolutely looking for a transparent spending of money, and we're going to insist on that. We're proposing a new set of sports databases. Some of them are records of sports injuries, records of sports results, and what I find extremely important is how total is given from all levels of government of a particular organization or athletes? What happens in practice is that a athlete or an organization comes to you and tells you that their programme doesn't have enough resources and that's what the republics say, and then they go to an autonomous province, and then they say the same thing in the autonomous province, so they go to the territory of the unit of local self-government, and they say the same thing there. Then when you look at it, it may be small individual means, but when you collect it and look at it as a whole, those funds are very large and exceed the needs of that program that the athlete or the organisation has applied for. Furthermore, I personally don't understand the attitude of individuals when they go to a sports event and crash and fall, as stadiums so hall, what they consider their own. That's why we increase the responsibility of everyone in the sports system when it comes to misbehaving and violence at sports events. We want to sanction those who are in the sports system. We want to sanction the organizers of the sports event and we want to sanction the delegate if he doesn't break up the game where the unfavorable event took place. What makes a difference is that this doesn't just apply to first league games. A much greater presence of misbehaving is at lower league games and younger categories. The phenomenon that is recognized in sports today is the phenomenon of parents, where parents both misbehaved and pressured judges, players, coaches, delegates, are just trying to die what should absolutely remain intact and pure. When it comes to surveillance, the bill introduces and conducts surveillance by the locals. We want units of local self-government to have their own sports inspector and to control those organizations in the territory of their local self-government. The truth is that the Republic currently has three sports inspectors and we cannot achieve supervision in all of Serbia for all organisations, and there are 12 thousand. And when you look over the year, it's physically impossible to achieve full surveillance. That's why we're expanding surveillance and asking local self-government units to be an absolute partner when it comes to controlling Serbian sports. We're extending our powers to sports inspectors. The main goal of these standards is to act preventively, not repressively. We're also increasing fines for sports violations. Also, the bill proposed that the issue of privatisation in sport be made by a special law. The reasons for that are multiple. One of them proved that a valid solution did not result, nor did one privatisation in the field of sports be launched, nor did privatisation in the field of sports take place. That is why, and as I said at the beginning and in conversation with all relevant persons in the system of sports from which we have received and written opinion both on all given and proposed solutions, as well as on the issue of privatisation, we stand up to privatisation should have a special place when it comes to the complexity of the situation itself. The Ministry of Business has formed a working group and is actively dealing with this issue, and this bill provides solutions that prevent social, i.e. state-owned assets in sports organisations from being compromised until the law is passed. At the very end, I want to point out that I find it a huge responsibility to present this law, given the sports results our athletes have been making over the past two years. We have a historic moment when it comes to the success of our athletes. In the last 16 years, watching for the last two years, one third of the medals have been won. I think it's my responsibility, and then the responsibility and all of us to have this bill and when it is adopted is in the system of sports and to follow the successes of our athletes, because at this point we can say that at the school sport system there are 149 and 700 students, that 728 medals were won in 2015, which is an absolute record, 30 medals in Olympic disciplines, never more qualified athletes for the Olympic games than on today, never more expectations of our athletes, and then, on the one hand, when you have these successes, you have to take care of that base, of children, of all those who are to succeed, but also of the nation's very health. I see it as a special obligation and extra responsibility. I'm open to all the consultations, all the suggestions you have, because I think we have a common goal, and that's to improve this legal solution that will improve the sport system itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-01-0.u48011	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? Question for an agreement – does any of the authorized want to speak today? So we're not going to continue the work. Perhaps one of the authorities present in the O.R. wants to speak today? No, I don't. If not, then since we agreed to continue tomorrow at 10:00 p.m., thank you all and continue at 10:00 p.m. Thank you.
