ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48012	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the session of the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 90 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the e-system's parliamentary units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 93 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. On Tuesdays and Thursdays only, following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the session, and before moving to a further debate, in accordance with Article 287(2). Rules of Procedure, MPs may request a notice and an explanation based on Article 280. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has a People's MP, Shaip Kamberi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48013	Thank you. A multinational company, Alliance One Tobacco, has been buying tobacco in the Bujanovac municipality for several years now, on the basis of completed contracts with manufacturers. In this municipality, there are 250 tobacco producers with whom Alliance One Tobacco had completed contracts to buy the manufactured tobacco. The tobacco production is one of the ways of self-employment, and not just one person, but his entire family, which means that 250 families in our community have this way acquired funds for a normal life. So the production of raw tobacco is a serious economic resource for our citizens. For this year, however, the situation is drastically changing. The company "Alliance one tobacco" has announced that it will end the purchase of tobacco in this municipality, which means that the mentioned 250 producers will remain without being able to plant this industrial plant. Starting from the ordinary assumption that each producer has at least five members in his household, the suspension of the purchase of tobacco without the basic means of living remains at least 1250 persons in this municipality. We are aware that it is a multinational company that is primarily managed by economic reasons, but in a municipality where the unemployment rate exceeds 60% of the removal of an important economic resource can become a major problem. That is why, as well as the fact that the social security of citizens is a government's obligation, my question can be considered an initiative is that the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, within his jurisdiction, is talking to the company's managers, "Alliance one tobacco" so that they can reconsider their decision to stop buying tobacco from producers in the Bujanovac municipality. My second question is for the minister of justice and the minister of the interior. On 11 November 2015, our fellow citizen Gumediaen Demimirali Ramadani, born 25 December 1973 in Veliko Trnovec, Bujanovac municipality, disappeared, where he lived with his family until the disappearance. The case has been reported in the Bujanovac police department, and according to the information we have, an official investigation into his disappearance has been launched. However, to this day, at least according to available data, there are no indications that the investigation has produced any concrete results. Therefore, not only the family, but other citizens are for a reason concerned, especially because of the fact that there is a sense of general uncertainty. In this regard, I ask the question – can concrete results be expected in the lighting of this case, or is the Ministry planning to maybe hire experts from a higher level, as it is obvious that local level capacities are not enough to clarify this disappearance? On this occasion, I must point out that today is exactly 16 years old since Nebino Hiu, the owner of the Presevo gas station, disappeared without giving any results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48014	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48015	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my first question is addressed to the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Labour, the martial arts and the Social Affairs and the Ministry of Agriculture, as far as huge debts are concerned. These are the backlogs of farmers for social and health insurance. It is a huge problem, which came from the beginning of the government of Mirko Cvetkovic's work in 2008. At that time, something called the family community and the community bearer when he was paying contributions, primarily for health insurance, was able to verify the books and other household members. After 2018, every full-time citizen, who lives in registered land in the rural area throughout Serbia, was a mandatory health insurance official. So, on its own, as soon as he turns 18. This has led to millions of debts, but what is the biggest problem for the country is that we currently have hundreds of thousands of citizens of the Republic of Serbia who do not have a health book and do not have compulsory health insurance, and these are citizens of this country who primarily live in the rural area, these are citizens living in mountainous and mountainous areas. Unfortunately, we have a situation that has significantly increased the number of patients with malignancies and that people have no way of treating themselves. For this reason, I ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia and, above all, the Resorient Ministry of Agriculture and Finance to find the possibility to write off previous debts to citizens of the Republic of Serbia for health insurance for the previous years, ending in 2015. Although they have obligations retroactively, they did not use that health insurance. If they used it, they had to pay it out of their pocket. I think it's extremely fair for those lagging debts to be written off and returned to what was before 2008, which is that whoever lives in the family community goes to common health insurance. Second, my question is addressed to the Ministry of Agriculture, which concerns the regulation, i.e. the regulation on the granting of a premium for milk delivered. The problem is in that regulation, which is why I ask the Minister of Agriculture to take over, and these are small milk producers. The current milk premium can be granted by producers who hand over 3,000 liters quarterly, i.e. at three months, which means that a small producer in Serbia, such as over a hundred thousand, living in the rural area, would have achieved a milk premium, it must daily deliver at least 30 liters of milk. We are all witnesses to the conditions especially of the surrounding parts of Serbia, and we are aware that we have nursing households where people barely make ends meet and where many families live from the handover of milk. I will remind you that the current market price for milk, without premium, is around 22 to 23 dinars, that the current price is half a liter of bottled water of 29 dinars. If you compare these parameters, you can see what conditions these people live in. I find it fair for the state to help these people and that this regulation be abolished. The premium should also be paid by us, which are taxpayers, of whose money these premiums are paid, and these premiums are from six to seven dinars per litre of milk, first of all we have to pay for the quality of milk, and not for the quantity, and to see that large producers are favoured, that small unfortunately choke and that a large number of people, to repeat once again, living in the rural area, hardly make ends up. For this reason, I ask, above all, the Resent Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to deal with this problem seriously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48016	Thank you. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48017	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, respected citizens of Nis, the questions I will ask, I am asking the Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic. A few weeks ago I asked Mr. Alexander Vukic, but I didn't get any answers, so for the citizens of Nis, I'm going to repeat that question with the hope that the premiums will answer me. Mr. Vukicu, in the 2012 and 2014 campaigns, in the Republic elections and local elections, you and your party promised the citizens Nisa a better life, more jobs, prosperity, a fair attitude towards state money, and the development of the city of Nis. The people of Nis gave you confidence. From then on, it's been four years, you haven't fulfilled any of your promises, so I ask you what's the reason why you don't keep any of the promises you promised? The proof that you have not fulfilled the promise you made to the citizens of Nis is that, from 2012, up to today, there are 365 companies in Nis less, that there are 201 companies in less, that according to official statistics, 2,219 jobs are less. What is the information published in the city of Nis in 2015 is that there are 8% less unemployed in the town of Nis than in the previous period. I accept this information with the reserve, and I ask you -- how is it possible that you have fewer unemployed people in the town of Nis, if we know that in 2012, in the city budget, on behalf of a paid income tax, which is the basic income of local self-government, 3.6 million dinars are paid, and in 2015, 3.2 million dinars are paid in the same position, which is 400 million less than in 2012? I'm asking you -- how is it possible that we have such a drop in the city budget by increasing jobs? The second question - why have you done nothing for the past four years to remove the railroad from the city center? I would like to remind you that moving the railroad is one of three important things, where the Nish City Assembly and the position and opposition were unique on several occasions, voting to move the railroad out of the city center, because it prevents normal communication of the city, is a danger, there are more than 10 crossing points at the level where car accidents occur and where Nišliji loses their lives, and Nis was unique in that the railroad is being moved. What was done by 2012, which was, from 2010 to 2012, a general urban plan was done, then a plan of detailed regulation and complete geodesy and part of the expropriation, which is what it cares about. On the question I asked you and your ministers, the answer I received was that the shift of the railway is not yet realistic and that the shift of the railroad will cost, according to your budgets, between 87 and 164m euros from the city of Nis. What's interesting about your answer, which you and your government gave me, is that at this point, they're not providing financial resources to carry out investment works to build a bypass line around the city of Nis. Furthermore, you say in your answers, Mr. President, that the Nis-Dimitrovgrad railway is part of the international railway road corridor 10 through Serbia, that part of this railway in the city of Nis has two equal technical solutions, and I would ask the citizens of Nis to pay attention to the following data. You say – the existing route of the one-way line Nis – Niska Banja – Sicevo and the new route Nis – Red Cross – Pantelej – Srežina – Sicovo that these are identical equal solutions, which the route will be used depends on the financial means for the realization of the railway bypass. You are saying that according to the current state of research - the investment values of the tour route in the general project there are indications that the investment value of construction of the bypass line around Nis, i.e. 17,5 km, exceeds the investment value of the Niš track modernisation - the border with Bulgaria, that is 103 km. And you say in the end -- taking into account all of the above, we point out that the shift of the railway will be possible only after the completion of the project planning documentation, the completion of the expropriation and the provision of financial resources. I ask you, Mr. President, why didn't you do anything about the question of moving the railroad out of the city of Nis? I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48018	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48019	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have received a letter from the Resavica miners and I want to ask the Prime Minister a question based on that letter. We all know he's the man who's responsible for everything that's going on in this country, so good and bad. In fact, the Resavica miners informed us that, for years now, they haven't been getting any money based on shift work. That several years ago it also started with lawsuits and that there is a huge debt of a state that crosses 1.2 billion dinars, and also a large number of miners have judgments that are not carried out, or which are not dealt with by a mine, or are not paid for their shift work. I ask the prime minister – which is why he allows Resavica to be led in this way, if we know that the Director of Resavica is right where the Government has appointed him. Also, what might be even worse is that by last year, miners had the right to two gardens of insurance, one insurance related to the payment of 100 dinars per day of sick leave that might be less important in this situation. And second insurance paid on the basis of pain damage, suffering fear, and all that is normally charged in situations where extraordinary circumstances occur. Since last year, miners have only one insurance policy. We are aware and we know that miners are doing an extremely difficult job and the question arises – why has the Government of the Republic of Serbia allowed people who work probably the most difficult and responsible jobs in this country to have life insurance that some others who are employed in the Government of the Republic of Serbia? The second question for the prime minister concerns the law we have passed in parliament, which is voted by the majority in parliament, the Law on the Police and the Law on the Communist Police. The issue is the first to refer to the discharge in the MUP, we are interested and not only in ourselves, but all the members of the MUP and the citizens of Serbia, which is the criterion on which it was signed, which is the criteria on which it was signed, still not delivered, how many I hear these solutions are hitched to the elections, because there is a fear that so many people are on the street, by which criteria are people put in this phantom risk analysis sector? How will these people be fired if there are no clear criteria for all the members of the MUP? At the same time, under a draft law approved by the government in Belgrade, a new 1,000 municipal police officers will be hired to obtain powers that the minority also has. The Home Secretary told us that those officers who drink coffee with criminals in the city would be fired, but he did not explain how it was possible for him to take pictures with criminals in the government. So this is a matter concerning the security of Serbian citizens and all employees in the internal affairs and security system in general. We believe that Serbian citizens need to see, to know, to hear, and especially police employees, which are criteria on which people and employment are based and on which, especially people who have been employed by the MUP for decades are being fired. I repeat, at very high posts currently in the MUP, there are persons who can't come to that position under the new Police Act, and they decide on police officers who have been doing these jobs for decades. The last question, i.e. the Prime Minister and the Minister of Agriculture, which is why, on the basis of which analysis, what is the reason for the regulation that reduces subsidies in agriculture from the current 12 thousand dinars to four thousand dinars? We know there were six grand per hectare, there were six thousand dinars for the fertilizer. Now it's all going to four thousand dinars together. So, practically, couples, farmers, peasants will only get a third of the money they received in 2015. If we say that agriculture is one of Serbia's biggest development chances, if we say that the Russian market is open more than ever to agricultural products from non-EU countries, the question arises -- which is why the government has now decided to reduce subsidies by two-thirds, from 12,000 dinars to four thousand dinars, which will certainly reduce production and cause great damage to all farmers in Serbia, especially people who prepare export products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48020	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48021	Thank you. Dear colleagues, MPs, Užic's First Partizan company, a respectable company, had concluded before thanks to the extremely good legal and economic affairs that management, the extremely successful management of the company, came into the status of enterprises that deserve high reputation as an export-oriented enterprise in international circles as well. The company "First Partizan" which is focused on dedicated production has developed in the technological process and every other type of production is extremely observed achievements in technology, the process of weapons production, especially gun ammunition which I said was directed towards exports that is extremely, extremely well valorised through the markets in America and the countries of the European community. What is planned and what needs to be stimulated and affirmatively supported is the fact that this company is working not only to develop a technological process, but also to increase the volume of production that I have already said is extremely noticeable. In this direction not only came up with an idea, but came into the concept that went into the stage of realising the opening of new plants, i.e. the new factory of the company "First Partizan", also on the territory of the town of Užica, a populated town - the Bela country. In this direction, multiple positive results would be achieved, multiple positive consequences primarily through the employment of new workers, where at least 200, 300 new employees in the city and in the territory of the Zlatibor district, which, as a common known fact, would be relatively lagging behind, where the large percentage of the unemployed, where the economy has fallen quite badly. This would mean, in any case, social, economic, existential significant progress for both the Zlatibor district and the town of Užice. In this direction, the company "First Partizan" has launched a series of proceedings before state authorities and institutions expecting appropriate documents, appropriate permits and appropriate consent. One of the most important in this regard is the replacement of land and regulation of property-legal relations with the public company "Serbiasum". Why? For the simple reason that, through the regulation of property rights on land of several or perhaps even a tenth of hectares, what is essential, therefore basic, means that uninterrupted infrastructure can be provided, that space can be provided and that all other infrastructure content that implies a prerequisite for the construction of anything, especially such a significant object, can be connected to the country's vital strategic importance. On the other hand, the way the company "First Partizan" operates and the way this company manages successful management has led to the possibility of speeding up the rest of the economy, not only the town of Užica, but also the Zlatibor County. This is a possibility and this is a chance for another factory, another company, to be revitalised, extremely significantly, that "First Partizan" participates in revitalising the company, which is the Valjanica copper in Sevojn. Why? Because the production range and production process of the Valjanica copper factory is precisely directed in one part and to what is necessary in the production process of the company ‘First Partisan’. In this way, what is currently being saved could be saved, which is that the debt, from the problem, comes out of the financial problems that this factory gradually emerges from, has contributed exactly the way I described it, which means that the company "First Partizan" must be provided as soon as possible with all the necessary conditions or preconditions for the construction of a factory that is expected by the well-being of the town of Užica, the citizens of Užica, of course, by supporting the entire concept by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Defence, not only now but before. In that sense, I ask the question, and I end up, can all the consent and all the necessary permits be provided for the construction of the First Partizan factory in Užica?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48022	Thank you. The word has a People's Messenger, Zarko Micin.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48023	I thank the chairman. Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today I ask my question to the Ministry of the Interior and to Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. Namely, my town of Novi Sad headed by its mayor Milos Vučević and the Government of RS, headed by the Prime Minister, Mr. Aleksandr Vukic, is a sacred and good example of how money should be spent on investment by Serbian citizens, and precisely those investments that represent our role in the future. In 2015, the city of Novi Sad received 38 acres of land along the highway that represents that role for the future of our city. This land will truly represent one serious investment potential and in this very land this year, by the end of the year we will have one new American investor, the American company Lir, which is one of the most significant American companies dealing with car parts with more than 130,000 employees around the world, with an annual turnover of over $15 billion. Indeed one serious company and one serious investor. Also this year, we will have in Novi Sad and the investment of the American company Delti, which is also one giant in the production of car parts, also, with a huge number of employees and a huge annual trade and what is most important, around 5,000 of our citizens will be employed from these investments. So the money of the citizens of Vojvodina and the citizens of Novi Sad and the citizens of Vojvodina and of Serbia will prepare land for these investors. My parliamentary question concerns something else, it refers to one bad example, how money is spent illegally by the citizens of Vojvodina and Serbian citizens by the province's government headed by Bojan Pajtic. In fact, some time ago in the Serbian Parliament, we received a report from a state auditor who, in his report, - the operations of the AP Vojvodina, established a series of illegalities and irregularities, and thus found that the Vojvodina Assembly illegally spent as much as 5.5 million dinars. I'm talking about 2014. The Regional Secretariat for Urbanism approved 850,000 dinars without a public competition. The Regional Secretariat for Energy and Mineral Raw materials agreed and paid a million and a half dinars more in respect of the actual amount received by the owners by the decision on the grant of grants of grants. In addition to the competition, the Regional Ministry of Economy has distributed more than 23 million dinars to individuals, granted a subsidy of 12 million dinars beyond the conditions set out in the employment project – a series of opportunities. And not only that, he paid 10 million dinars in excess of the rules for refunding the cost of business participation at fairs in Europe and Serbia. It was also found that the Regional Secretariat for Science and Technological Development had also transferred 10 million dinars to citizens' associations without previously held competition. What may be the most frightening, which is that the government of Bojan Pajtic has been found to have spent a total of billions and 800 million dinars illegally. It's all in the auditor's report. I think these facts really show the state of defiance of the province's government headed by Bojan Pajtic. I call on the citizens of Vojvodina and the citizens of Serbia to stop in the upcoming elections the collapse of Vojvodina and to send Bojan Pajtic to history in that part of history that we want to forget and that we want never again. So my question for the Ministry of the Interior is did the state auditor's findings file criminal charges for the established illegalities in the business of the government of Bojan Pajtic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48024	Thank you. Would any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, like to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287? Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, are answering for a word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Borisav Kovacevic, Mr Dejan Radenkovic, Djordje Cabarkapa, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. We continue the principled search on item 4 of the agenda – Proposal for a law on sport. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they are invited to attend today's session: Vanja Udovic, Minister of Youth and Sports, Predrag Peruničić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Youth and Sports, Uroš Zekovic, Assistant Minister of Youth and Sports, and Zorica Nikodijevic, Secretary of the Youth and Sports Ministry. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The People's Messenger Sabina Dazdarevic has the word. Here you go. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Where is the minister? The service is about to call them.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48025	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Minister with associates, who are not here, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, today we are discussing a new Sport Act. This law has several advantages compared to previous ones, which have been applied since 2011, and we believe that it will have positive effects on citizens who want to play sports, both professionally and recreationally. These positive effects arise, above all, from the fact that Serbia is on a European path, and in this sense it has been done to comply with international organisations' documents, such as the United Nations and the Council of Europe, as well as with European Union documents. Dear Minister, in your opening statement, you mentioned that our country's athletes have achieved a major boom in international competitions for the past few years. I also have to mention here a few Sandzak athletes who have achieved, and they still have, exceptional results in international competitions. There is, above all, our esteemed athlete Amila Terzic, who won three medals last year, then Osmir Kolasinac, professional ball pitcher, Adem Ljajic, who is a footballer and representative of Serbia, as well as Muamer Hukic, who is the world's multiple boxing champion, and many others. These are the people whose personal success and victory make us as the Sandzak people also feel success and victory. In this sense, we need to keep looking for talents, and to find them and recognize them, you'll agree with me, we need to have a better sports infrastructure. Also, when we talk about the Sandzak athletes, I have to mention here that during the catastrophic floods that struck Serbia in May 2014, the director of the Tutin Sports Institute with 24 other athletes participated in the recovery of flood kindergartens in Svilajnc. This is another indicator that athletes are there not only when they need to play sports, but also when they need to show humanity in action. When we talk about the ministry's co-operation with a small local community like Tutin, first of all, I must commend the Ministry's efforts and you personally, who are the first youth and sports minister to visit Tutin and who personally became convinced of the state of sports infrastructure in this city, and that, with the support of the Ministry, projects of three paths and a multi-functional field were done in this city. Also, in Sjenica, you have done the groundwork for small football from the Norwegian Embassy funds, which is an extraordinary thing and for which the citizens of these two cities are extremely grateful. But this isn't enough. During your visit to Tutina, you became convinced of the state of sports facilities, and you know that children and athletes in this town have almost no place to play sports. The sports hall that started in 2002, which is located near two primary schools where more than 2,000 students are still not finished. These students have practically nowhere to deal with sports. Also, if this hall were to be completed, next to the students of these schools, it could be used by recreational athletes in the evenings and weekends. The same is true of the Shadow, which also has a problem with the lack of sports facilities for pupils and high school students, and also a problem with the construction of the Žari Ski Centre, which represents a single capital project at the state and regional level. Apart from the Biathlon Centre, within this centre, which was built, which was financed from the Sedica municipality's budget, despite the ministry's promises, nothing has been done here so far. Here I will also mention another project that is of great importance, which is the Camping Project on the Cave, which because of its altitude is an ideal location for preparation for basic sports, which is also the team from the Ministry who visited this location confirmed. Given the problem of local self-government that they don't have enough money to invest in the development of sport, what you as Minister of Youth and Sports could do is give us concrete answers about the projects I mentioned ahead. During your visit to Tutina, you promised 2017 as the year of completion of the sports hall, and this year as the year in which the roof structure on this facility will be built. Also, Camping at the Cave and the Ski Centre of Lights in Sjenica, which are of crucial importance primarily for the economic development of this region, must be included in the budget of the Republic of Serbia or other sources of funding must be found, in order for the ministry to co-operate with local self-government to realise these projects. Finally, I will point out once again that this law is good for the reasons that it has resulted in many facts on the ground, that is, from the problems that local authorities and others are facing, and they have been defined by a new way of co-operation between the Ministry of Sports and the unit of local self-government. I believe that you will take advantage of these advantages of the law, and that the planned and started projects of sports infrastructure in Sandzak will soon be completed, and that we will welcome you again to this occasion. In the end, I would say that we of the SDA Sandzak parliamentary group will support this law in the voting day. We wish to congratulate both you and your associates on his work and certainly hope that he will not remain just a dead letter on paper, but will be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48026	The word is made by Minister Vanja Udovicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48027	Dear Chairman, honourable Members of Parliament and MPs, I would like to thank you for the praises you have made, and building the infrastructure itself in the work that you have mentioned is only the beginning. As you said, I'm one of the first ministers to come to Tutin, I'm not the first. I haven't visited the Senate, but I'm very familiar with the infrastructure in Tutin. What I can tell you is that we started building three paths and a multi-functional terrain, from what we could at this point finance from the funds that we had defined for 2015, precisely because we want to show that there are no privileged ones when it comes to infrastructure. Our wish is to come to all parts of Serbia, even where ministers have not come before, where it has not been built before. When it comes to the sports hall you mentioned, I'm very familiar with that project. I didn't say 2016 would put a roof on, but first we have to solve all the problems that have arisen before and solve these problems as soon as possible. I said that in 2017 I expect that we can finish this hall, for the simple reason, because, primarily, Tutin is a city with the largest number of young people, over 50% of people living in Tutin are young, and the school itself, as you said, numbers more than 2,000 students. If it's something of interest, it's an interest for them to get one of those halls that both schools can use, as well as professional clubs or associations. That is why we work very closely daily to solve this problem. We know that there are problems and I expect, as I said, in 2017 and continuing to build this hall because it stands very long and the problems are not small, because if they were simple, it would not wait 13 years, but my going to Tutin shows interest both in the Republic and the Ministry of Youth and Sports to solve this problem and to continue building this hall. Like I said, I think it's very important that Tutin gets one of those halls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48028	Thank you. The People's MP, Marija Jevdzic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48029	I would like to point out from the very beginning that JS, or JS MPs, will support the proposed sport law. The previous Sport Act was passed in 2011 and he, we can say, responded to the expectations that existed when he was adopted, but for further improvement of sports in Serbia, it is necessary to pass the new law that we are discussing today. The proposal for a law on sport, namely its adoption, is necessary to regulate this area in accordance with European standards and regulations and the sport rules of the relevant international sports alliances, whose development has been extremely dynamic in this area over the past period. Consensus with the new national regulations and consensus of all relevant sports entities, that amendments to the legislation are needed to improve the existing system. The adoption of the proposed law would allow, on the one hand, the possibility of maximising the coverage of citizens' sports, and on the other hand, to continue to support and develop domestic top sports. There are many reasons for the adoption of a new law, and one of the reasons why JS, as a socially responsible party, is very important that comes out of the need for all citizens, especially children, young people, women and persons with disabilities to be able to deal with sportsman-permanently, with greater support for athletes who achieve the top results that we are all proud of and who are our best ambassadors in the world, and as someone who has been an active athlete, a competitor, a representative for 15 years, I know how much this assistance and support is needed. In 2013 in Serbia, every fifth adult is overweight, each third consumes cigarettes, and nearly half of the population has hypertension is the alarm that we are mobilizing as a nation and find a solution to raising citizens' awareness of how important it is to play sports, or how much physical exercise and healthy nutrition should be an integral part of life. An example of responsible local self-government is the city of Jagodina, led by Dragan Markovic Palma, where every village has small sports grounds and thus creates the possibility that every child can develop and create idols in top athletes who have just come from such small terrains throughout Serbia. The king, the city I came from, opened a modern hall of sports last year. In this year it is planned to start work on the indoor pool, adapt the existing athletic trail, as well as the motto trail on Beranovac, which is certainly commendable and certainly necessary for athletes in the Kingdom. Dear Ministers, yesterday we heard in your presentation, and this particularly impressed the JS parliamentary group, that the proposed sport law aims not to favour individuals and rich people, but to enable all citizens to be able to play sports. This tells us that changes in the new law go in the direction of reducing discrimination, i.e. that all children, regardless of the material situation, get a chance to engage in sports. That fact allows our children not to be on the street, but to be on sports grounds and playgrounds. In my opinion, it is a step towards improving school sport which is an important link in approaching sports and healthy life to the youngest and possibly determining their life call tomorrow as a professional athlete. It is very important to mention that for the first time it is regulated to use personal data by athletes, that health care for children from six to 14 years of age is free and covered by insurance, and that certainly makes it easier for parents to pay. A membership fee for minor athletes cannot exceed 10% of the average profit. A unique Serbia believes that one of the most important provisions of the proposed law is a provision under which the contract between a manager and a athlete will have to be verified in the future, and when it comes to a minor, it will have to have the consent of both parents, which, you will agree, eliminates any kind of possible abuse. The law also regulates transfers to sports, especially international ones allowed under strict international community rules. When it comes to domestic national transfers, a special accent has been placed on minor athletes, who, in case they move to another environment, must be given a quality way of life. I would like to single out and commend the introduction of mandatory insurance for coaches and all athletes during the performance for the team, the greater responsibility of members of the managing authorities, as well as new obligations in terms of reporting conflicts of interest. Sometimes, unfortunately, sports games and results remain in the second plan because of inappropriate game behaviour, but the proposed law will sanction it, both at first league games and on the lower level. We are witnessing that a valid solution to privatization of clubs has not produced results because no privatisation has been launched, so the decision to regulate the privatisation issue by a special law is correct. But it should be stated that the proposed law prevents the threat of social property in sports organisations from regulating the issue of privatisation. Because of what I have stated, I would like to point out in the end that the JS parliamentary group will support the proposed sport law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48030	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Vanja Udovicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48031	I want to thank you for your support and for the praises you have made and to thank you both as a representative of JS, but also as former athletes and someone who lived in the system of sports. It is certain that your words have more weight because you have lived the system of sports and you know how complex it is and what it really means and how it works. Some of the provisions you've made were absolutely trying to strengthen the extent to which it is possible because it is true that sport becomes a privilege. We want to restore the situation so that the sport is free. It's my pursuit, as Minister of Youth and Sports. And personally, I never paid a membership fee when I was in junior-class sports. My parents didn't pay membership fees and aspirations for me, and it's to cut membership rates. At this point, considering and considering the situation in clubs where the most basic form of profit for each club is the fee of membership fees, we decided that this membership fee does not go more than 10% of the average earnings in the Republic of Serbia, but we will certainly seek to make that percentage smaller and make sport more accessible to everyone. I thank you again for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48032	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Dr. Muamer Bacevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48033	Dear Ministers, distinguished fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, today we have an excellent law, a comprehensive spice, a law that, as you can see, has been long prepared and probably a crown in the work of this ministry that I will at first really commend, as well as the Minister himself, has been very busy and vispirant. We in Sandzak, as well as in Tutin and Novi Pazar and in Sjenica very, very often have seen and collaborated with him. Of course, there are also our good qualities, because we really have a lot of successful athletes and we have a sport spirit, and I'm glad the Ministry of Sports recognizes and really invests a lot in this area, as far as infrastructure and effort are concerned, and that we have a lot more to really do. The new law that is before us has improved that old law of 2011 and probably all those inconsistencies and inconsistencies, the weaknesses that have been proven have been upgraded. First of all, the most important thing he kept and improved, which is obviously, project funding, is that cornerstone that has also contributed to one improvement in sports activities in our country. I'm glad the minister and his associates recognized it and upgraded the element of this law in that regard. Of course I, as a doctor, know the value of sports, sports activities and it's a common-known thing and it's, we say health equals sport is primarily today dominant and today more obvious than ever before. The current way of life, the lack of sports activity, the lack of work, the lack of bad habits, in terms of poor nutrition, are taking a toll today in the whole world, especially in the modern world, and we have seen that the figures in our country are even more devastating. I have to say, in one ordinary case, we see how much obesity and the present way of life, so inactivity, they've taken an epidemic wave today. In America alone, 10,000 new cases of diabetes are discovered weekly, only because of an increased trend of obesity. Being overweight means having metabolic syndrome, means getting diabetes, means having a cardio-vascular disease. The information we see, from this explanation of yours, that one half of Serbia's population has some kind of hypertension, is worrying, and the only cure and only improvement, the only progress we can make through physical activity. It will be a recreational sport, it will be a quick walk, as they say, the "wipe wipe" and that's all this law tries to improve and install into some legal provisions, which we have to work very hard to get back into life. We see how few citizens of Serbia pay little attention to recreation, recreational sports, and that is something that is devastating in relation to EU data. There are many good things, especially the quality way to get back to school, set up sports habits in young people, insist on one psycho-physical development, then develop a collective spirit, a spirit of solidarity, and a "fer play", which I think everything we lack as a society. That's why this law is so important. We have shifts in the record and today when, hopefully, we'll pass this law, it's obvious, after its adoption we'll have unique registers, we'll all know how many sports organisations, clubs and all those associations that deal with sports activities. Of course, I'm not going into mechanisms, it's a good thing that the APR is going to get everything back to the Ministry and they're all going to get, practically one quality register. The new law deals, we also see children, it pays special attention to children, in project financing, 15% of projects have to apply to children and are dedicated to children's sports. It is also good to limit that 15% of the project itself must not go outside the project itself for not projecting things and these are all excellent and quality solutions. I see that there have really been a lot of high-quality lawyers, who have been closely specialized in this area, some Kragujeva professors have made a significant contribution, which is very important. So, you've heard of profession and of people who've been dealing with this their whole lives. The exceptional quality thing is that, here I quote, a health proposal for minors is required once a year and is covered by a health fund. It's a crucial thing. We've had a lot of bad experiences. We know what this chronic obstructive cardiopathy can do when it's unrecognized to bring sudden deaths to young people, and even to athletes who are very active and this kind of one-year review in institutions that will be free of charge for children is really something that is a great thing and what is the quality of this proposal. The insurance of athletes by the club is mandatory. It is also a very good proposal to introduce a procedure for obtaining authorisation to carry out professional training activities, existing controls. Of course, all those involved in sports education will have to be licensed in some way, which is a very good thing. You mentioned that you would insist on free sport, available for all. It's good, of course, the good part of this proposal is that it can't possibly be this membership fee big and we're bringing it down to some normal scales and some normal frames. Of course, it is also good that the net profit in the current year is achieved by a sports business company, and it gives this law and the possibility that certain sports associations are also companies, that 70% of the total profits are reinvested and reinvested in the company itself, so we continue to spin "circulus viciosus", we try to keep that profit in sport itself. Since the law is truly large and comprehensive, I must say that it has certain places to discuss. For example, the proposal has rejected the provisions so far that convicted of criminal offences cannot be members, they can now be members of the MPs. One thing I see here, the good intention is probably good, especially if we come from small sports, and I come from small sports like you ministers, but here I see that it is defined and it is one of the main newspapers in this law that an organisation in the field of sport is an autonomous province or a regional community, or local self-government cannot transfer more than 20% from the overall sports budget. It has a quality dimension. However, this percentage needs to be reconsidered once more. Once again, this proposal needs to be reconsidered. The tradition of sports in different parts of Serbia is different. We have some neighborhoods that have heritage traditions and certain sports activities and certain clubs. For example, handball in Nis, boxing in Novi Pazar, then football in some parts and so forth. I think there should have been some media here and allowed local self-governments who know best their needs at the bar that they share partly in this redistribution because it's not the same investment in a football club, in the development of a football club and in some smaller sport. I know your wish is good, and that's the same chance you give development in all sports. This is something where you need to go between force and haribda and find some kind of medium. I'm afraid this percentage won't provide that. Anyway, I'd like to commend your work so far, and I said there's been a lot of work done on sports infrastructure in Novi Pazar. We finished a magnificent stadium that now has 12,000 seats and a New Market game in the Super League. We've made a practical turn and made many more sports structures. First of all, we finished the Pandik Sports Fair. We have heard here that in Tutina since 2002 some sports hall has not been completed and we have come to power in Novi Pazar, we have unfinished objects, ruined objects, objects that have been shown to have been done, and everything is with these donations and with these coins is done. However, with the ability of local self-government and our quality relationship with the state of Serbia, we have managed to complete most of these facilities. The sports and fairs facility "Pendik" which you have seen, which is magnificent and which covers one superlitter in men's volleyball, all the other sports are less there, that's the resort, that's the weekend resort of all the citizens who are engaged in sports, we managed to end foreign donations. Hala "Pendik" was mostly built by donations from our friends, our citizens, our countrymen, from the Republic of Turkey and other donations and, of course, with the help of the Republic of Serbia. What do I mean? I want to say that there are many stakes in the fact that these facilities are not finished in Tutina and Sjenica, there are also incompetent objects, I will also say the controversial local self-government and that the best example is the town of Novi Pazar with its own power, as well as in what way quality to make one personal engagement, quality city management, good relationship with the Republic of Serbia and ultimately a good relationship with the Ministry of Sports itself, much to be done on the infrastructure in the city itself. Only 16 of us have sports-recreative centres, smaller for recreational sports in the city itself, we have done this in the last two to three years. We're still putting that money in the stadium, three stadiums prepared for the top-notch training of athletes, etc., I could count a lot because indeed SDP has done a lot of work on the infrastructure since it was in power in Novi Pazar, in quality dialogue with the Republic of Serbia. But let me get back to the law. We will certainly uphold the law, the law is excellent. I thank you once again for one good engagement, I can say as an MP that I am pleased with your work, that you are one of the ministers who is probably thanks to one wish, youth and one battle you probably draw from your sports spirit, a lot of things you have shown, a great desire, and a lot of things you have done on the ground. I hope you will continue to support us. You know we also have the athletic stadium we started. It will be the largest athletic stadium in the Balkans, as athletes from Novi Pazar deserve it, representatives of Serbia. Everyone knows Amelia, everyone knows Asmir, etc. And it's a radio city, and there you know how many problems we've had, but how much resistance we've shown thanks to one really and your tenacity and your co-operation, we've managed to get into this project, and that's how we politicians should determine ourselves according to these structures. Once again, thank you for preparing this law and we will support this proposal as a whole from the SDP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48034	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Vanja Udovicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48035	I want to thank you for the praises you have made and for all the constructive suggestions you have made through the amendments, but we will discuss this more in the discussion in particular. What I'm saying at first is, to make a little correction, what's being held up in Article 33 is that convicted persons can't be in the board of sports organizations. Just so you don't get the wrong impression, we're very careful and careful when it comes to all the convicted faces and protecting sports from all the negative. I congratulate you on the partnership relationship you've brought into the construction of sports infrastructure and everything you've done. You yourself mentioned an athletic stadium that we consider one of the capital projects and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and all of Serbia, because it is not only important for athletes from Novi Pazar, but for the whole region and the whole environment. If any area has the capacity for top-notch athletic success, then it certainly is New Pazar, which you have shown with top-notch athletes and sports results. I expect that in the middle of the year, even earlier, in the next two months, as soon as the warmer weather starts and conditions are created, we will go into the construction of the second stage of the stadium and this year, as we said, we will end the athletic stadium in Novi Pazar. As I said, our wish is to reach all parts of Serbia. Last year we opened a three-way in New Market. We want to give the possibility for citizens to be able to play sports for free, not to build objects that aim only to impose a certain obligation on citizens, but we have been strategically defined to build open terrains, multi-functional terrains, to build trim paths, to build places that will gather citizens, which will not have the aim of paying the terms and withdrawal of money from citizens. Thank you for recognising the importance of sports as a prerequisite for a healthy nation, and we have just paid a lot of attention to the provisions that are aimed at a healthier nation. In many ways, we have extended the provisions that are more detailed in preschool sports and school and university, but also in recreational sports. Of course, the information that you and the former Members of the People have brought is worrying. That's why we want to change the climate, change the atmosphere in society, and motivate people to practice recreation, to practice sports. Let's try to fight those burning problems that bother all of us, and most of all our youngsters, because when these data comes out, they're absolutely worrying, something we can't hide and turn our heads to, but something we need to face and fight. When we look at that every fifth child is overweight or the percentage of malformation in children is so increased, the curved spine, the flat feet, everything that comes from not doing recreation, and then sports, then with such a problem, and how we have to face it and try to solve it. Just for the purpose of the provisions that we have mentioned, they have to reduce that percentage of deformities. I must say, in the last two years, a much larger number of children have been covered by school sports. Never bigger, because when you give a figure of 149,700 children that are covered in the system of school sports is encouraging data, but surely it can be improved. We're not going to step up and improve the quality and functioning of school sports, but in a larger range of children because we know that we can always do more and always be better. Just because of this problem I mentioned, we have to go through the system of school sports, university sports, but now for the first time and preschool not sports, but physical activities, because we can't tell about children who are in preschool institutions that they can play sports. We just want to fight in one responsible way with these negative effects because on the one hand it's very nice when we talk about the number of medals won and when we talk about all these results that our professional athletes did, but we have to take care of our children, because when you take the information that 60% of our citizens haven't spent a week practicing, there's no kind of activity, then we have to influence all of us, because we're not always someone these kids look up to and who these kids are watching. I think we are among the first, but we are not among the first, but at the upper border in Europe. That's why we have to deal with it because we live in a time when TV, cell phone, tablet, replaces everything that used to be done in the fields outside the building, because today kids instead of going outside the building to play basketball, that same basketball is played over games on their pills and phones. That is why we have included to the greatest extent through the law provisions aimed at increasing the number of people in recreational sport. Once again, thank you for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48036	Thank you. The word is Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48037	Thank you, President. Minister Udovic, associates of the Ministry of Sports, first of all, I would like to commend you in some way because you have adopted all the suggestions from the Regional Secretariat for Sport and Regional Secretary Marinika Tepic and have been in very good communication in all this drawing up the final proposal for a law on sport. The first small reference to the fact that the proposal for a sport law at some stage of the draft, when it was presented at a public debate throughout Serbia, including in Novi Sad, was organised by the Regional Secretariat for Sport and Youth, offering solutions that not only violated the Law on determining the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, thus the province autonomy, and thus no less jurisdiction of local self-government units throughout the Republic and the solutions offered at that time were contrary to a number of other legislations. That's why I'm saying it's a good thing that you've accepted all these suggestions regarding jurisdiction in sports, which are about jurisdiction in the AP Vojvodina. In particular, the supervision that was to be carried out by the Ministry through the republican sports inspectors was defined in such a way that the Regional Secretariat for Sport and Youth, but also all units of local self-government, therefore, all municipalities and cities, was reduced to the organisational unit of the resolution ministry. Moreover, the Republic sports inspectors of the Ministry promoted them to republican, budgetary inspectors, state auditors, and ministers, giving them illegal powers to monitor and implement programmes, projects and contracts through which the needs and interests of citizens in the field of sports in our province and local self-government units are met. By sticking directly to the jurisdiction of administrative oversight and the jurisdiction of other ministries and authorities of the state administration, the provision provided for the Republic sports inspectors to supervise the executive bodies whose founder of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina is the original transactions financed from the AP Vojvodina budget and even more so that the republican sports inspector fines the regional and local executive authorities, thus giving him the anti-zaconite jurisdiction of the second-degree authority and the authority of the minister. This fully derivates the competences of territorial autonomy and local self-government in the field of sport and comes down to the executives of the ministry, where the republican inspector of the ministry occasionally and with the powers of the ministry oversees every job of resilient, autonomous and local authorities. So that there is no confusion, they are under supervision, but professional and legal supervision, and for jobs, that is, under the supervision of budgetary inspection and DRI, not the Republic sport inspector. So, it's a good thing this was being responded to. We also point out that the scope of the original competences and jobs in the field of sport is optimal, intact in relation to current powers, which we also appreciate as an objective attitude towards the needs of the Vojvodjans in the field of sport, especially in the further equipment and construction of sports infrastructure, which can be raised by Vojvodina for every branch of sport, especially Olympic, given that a large number of Olympics have just collapsed in the Vojvodjan clubs, recognised, for years scholarshipd by the Regional Secretariat for Sport and Youth, while our prospective athletes have been deciding whether to continue to engage in sport and to be interested in it. At present, the country's most trophy sport, the kajak-khan, is being reneged by the mahogany children in the Duke's clubs. Both Marka, Novakovic and Dragosavljevic, were recognized and scholarshipd as young in Vojvodina. Ivana Spainovic, apart from our joy that the province's government has provided a roof over her, as well as all of Serbia's athletic representatives, while having world medals, and the country's first closed athletic hall. She, like Mikhail Dudash, a multicolour, an Olympic, remained faithful to the Duke's clubs. For us Vojvodjane may be old, and for some new name – Anja Crevar is a 15-year-old swimmer, who comes from Pancheva, who could not provide her with a swimming trail, so the Regional Secretariat for Sport and Youth helped her with the scholarship and provided her with a lease on the Tas pool in Belgrade. Borislava Perić Rankovic has been named the best paralympics of the world. Then, there comes the wrestling champion, also from Vojvodina, Olympic Davor Štefanek, and not to list all the other Olympic athletes who came from Vojvodina, and some of their pledges helped them to make progress in their lives. What I would like to point out for Vojvodina is the development of a school sport that recognizes this law. Not all kids will be top athletes, they won't compete at all, and most of them are, they're all, except for 1% of the population, which belongs to top-notch sports. Because of these over 97% of boys and girls whose coverage is the largest in mandatory primary schools, the Regional Secretariat for Sport and Youth is conducting a unique country strategy for the development of school sport in the AP Vojvodina, which all MPs and positions and oppositions in the AP Vojvodina Assembly unanimously supported and whose parts and measures of activities, objectives, are also recognised in this law. So the school sport has a significant place in this new law, giving schools the opportunity to get the status of the organisation through new sports programs and content and to be respected for new programmes under the Sport Act. The province formed the first basic database on the state of school sports infrastructure and school sport in general in the AP Vojvodina, a base that continues to serve exactly what it is, and thus the capital investment focus of the Regional Sports and Youth Secretariat is invested in school sports facilities, and the base has provided the Ministry with insight on all of this. Based on this database and new data that 103 elementary schools in the municipalities and cities in Vojvodina have a physical hall, the Regional Secretariat for Sport and Youth provided all these 103 schools with the necessary sports equipment and props. Over 100 schools got locker rooms, toilets, etc. What I would also like to commend, and you have also paid attention to this and commended it, that since 2014, Vojvodina, or the Regional Secretariat, has returned SOSHOV after 25 years to the school competition system in the Republic of Serbia, and has succeeded. So, SOSOV has returned the Regional Secretariat for Sports and Youth to the big door. It was held in Sombor in 2014, with the participation of 3,000 students and their professors as an unforgettable sports weekend of friends and peers, as were all those whom SOSOV had nurtured many years ago, and then simply stopped, it was erased from school sports and school sports competition systems, which was in 1989. It is important to know that SOSOV is the first school Olympics in Europe. Its model was then taken over by other European countries, and Serbia shut it down in 1989. It introduced physical education for Vojvodina, which was also the first, thanks to Professor Djorđa Tarsevic, as a mandatory subject in the 1960s. Because of the promising treatment of school sport as a priority and sports national strategy and legislation, which was attended by representatives of the secretariats and the Regional Secretariat for Sports and Youth, he supported the text of the law. Also, I want to pay attention to medical examinations. One of the more important things the Regional Secretariat for Sport and Youth has pointed to, which the ministry has also responded positively and has fought to support this, are medical examinations. In 2013, the Regional Secretariat for Sport and Youth gave great importance to children's health checks in the system, not only of club sport, but also of school sport. The problem with compulsory health skills among students is largely making it impossible for children to participate more widely in school sports, which is one of the basic goals and interests of the state at all levels. The costs of these medical examinations that do not fall into primary health care fall on the parent’s burden, which largely prevents them from continuing to direct their child to sports. In this way, the idea of an affirmation of school sport, which implies that sports at school is free of charge, falls at the first step. We are sure that in the interest of improving and preserving students' health, as well as developing school sports, it is necessary to find the right measure and a compromise solution which, on the one hand, will not be additionally burdened by the parents of students who want to engage in school sports, and on the other hand show concrete concerns of the state for the health of the student population. This Proposal for a Law on Sports has also respected all these arguments presented by the Regional Secretariat for Sport and Youth and we can say that a solution offered for children up to 14 years is that all health and sports reviews are free of charge, i.e. into the regime of regular or extraordinary systematic examination, one of the biggest benefits of this law. Working with kids. We expressed the delay according to the solution this bill makes in relation to working with children. In this regard, if we have defined ourselves to be valuable to us working with our children, we insist on education and higher education. The current law allows working with children up to 14 years of age only sports experts with higher or high professional training. Why is there now an option of professional training for special work with children, i.e. why are we lowering already established standards? Given the specificity of working with children and in the most sensitive stages of their development and the necessity of expertise in all segments of the current process, this solution could reverse the quality of working with children. On the other hand, colleagues who have been professors of physical education, who have spent four to five years investing in themselves without any problems teaching. I remind you that the primary school is mandatory, the coverage of school children in Serbia is almost 97%, which means that almost everyone with talent, less capable, obesity, malnutrition, malnutrition, children from inclusive schools and with various problems, the content of these sports branches that are very demanding in the programme, from the adoption of basic elements to the presentation of compositions, consideration of tactics, etc. If by any chance a coach works in a club he should have a license and there are serious problems. Very often, and for the highest licence, a certain education must pass without any professional justification. Licensing is intended as a permanent improvement that applies to all alliances and who want to advance and have the result necessary and logical without legal obligation, and is not licensing a new space to fill the budget. In this respect, no clear solutions are seen in this proposal, except that, in the framework of the license, it can also be trained professionally when, which is certainly not an improvement. These may be our grudges. We didn't give the amendments for some reason, because there was good communication and the law was kind of made according to the Regional Sports Secretariat. Since we're coming from Vojvodina, so we know how it all works there, but perhaps in our objections, if they have some other MPs of their amendment, you can adopt them to make this law even better.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48038	The word is made by Minister Vanja Udovicic..
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48039	I want to thank you and to confirm that co-operation with the Regional Secretariat for Youth and Sports is extremely partnering and that in everything we are trying to solve problems together, especially when it comes to school sports and what you said today. I had a chance to conduct all the public debates and sit down from the beginning to the end and discuss. The public debate in Novi Sad lasted over nine hours. And I wanted exactly by my presence and by conducting that same public debate to get all the necessary information in all parts of Serbia aimed at improving this system. To the greatest extent I can see that you have some of the constructive ideas, and some of the ideas are in the amendments, so when we talk about the amendments, we'll explain in more detail the solutions you mentioned yourself and the constructive ideas. Thank you for that. What you mentioned was that we accepted certain suggestions and at these public debates. I have to say that they didn't aim to compromise autonomy, but we only accepted that there would be no confusion, because more lawyers, and they read certain provisions differently, so we immediately and in a public debate, through a direct dialogue, said that we wanted to accept that the matter would be crystal clear, in order to understand first reading, especially the people of the sport system, so that there was no confusion, with certain solutions that would lead to the threat of autonomy, which is absolutely not our goal. As I said, the Regional Secretariat for Youth and Sports is considered an extremely large partner in solving certain problems. I would like to point out, since you mentioned, the scholarship of prospective athletes. In 2015, the Republic scholarshipd 359 athletes with 105 million dinars, and we consider this information to be extremely quality and encouraging, because we want to take care of those athletes who may yet be performing or who are believed to be our greatest talents. When we take the current medal winners, when we take all those who in the brightest light today represent the Republic of Serbia, so I can say on my own personal case, I was the winner of that scholarship, so I can say how important it was to me during that period, especially when I was declared a prospective athlete in the categorization, then you cannot dispute the importance of these funds and the importance of such a decision to scholarship these athletes. We also want to send a message to our parents to take care of athletes and when they are not on the European and world throne, to identify those who will be best. You mentioned Anja, as perhaps the most prospective swimmer at the moment of the Republic of Serbia, and that's exactly the kind of athlete we're scholarshipd to, and that's exactly the kind of athlete we recognize because we expect the most from them. We want to show that we don't want to accept the laurels of our athletes when they get the results, but we recognize them at 17, 18, at the earliest age, and we follow them through their development, through funding programs, because we want them to have all the conditions that are necessary to be able to finance and not think about these trivial things that are sometimes not thought about. Thank you again for your constructive ideas and we'll consider your suggestions and we'll talk about this topic in the day that's scheduled for the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48040	Thank you. The word is from MP Zika Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48041	President-in-Office, respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, all the interested citizens who are watching us today, I want to thank you at the beginning of Mr. Udovic, more precisely to congratulate on the excellent organisation of the European Water polo Championship, where the state has shown that and how it knows to follow the results our great athletes have achieved for years. This organisation is only an indication that in difficult situations and in a difficult crisis, where the country has been in years, one great sporting event can always be organised to praise the whole country and to create marketing, not only for Serbia and the city of Belgrade, but for our entire people. Listening to a recently respected LSV colleague, I was under the impression that we are discussing today the law that the AP Vojvodina Department of Sports and Youth has made. I always said, when I had the chance to talk, about the need to be a man at the head of the Ministry of Sports and Youth, a young man who was a sportsman, who achieved great results, not someone who would deal with politics and use sports. Unfortunately, as in all local self-government and many other regions, where sport and sport financing are exclusively used to collect cheap political votes and to be used for political campaigns. At the head of the Ministry of Sports, we have a man who has managed to fight for larger financial resources and I believe that this ministry is very often underrated in terms of budget and in terms of many other topics and spheres in society that this ministry can improve. We'll probably all agree that this is one good law, you'd even dare say that here today and in this debate it's going to be a little bit and amazing that there are no heavy tones and that this is something that our country needed. I touched, I say, the Sports and Youth Secretariat not as something that's positive, but something that's negative, but I'll talk about it a little later when I touch the funding of sports and show who's really the difference how it shouldn't be, and how it should be done when it comes to sports. Because of those people of sportsmen watching us, I'm just going to try to focus on a few important things from this law, although the law itself is clear and good enough, but given the situation that many people still don't know all about it, I'm going to try to define just a few good, good really, subject of this law. In addition to the prohibition of discrimination that has so far been prescribed in the strictest way, compliance has been carried out with new regulations both at national and international level in this area, and the special responsibility of all those working with children and all forms of abuse, abuse and violence has been increased, which is of course great. As the primary goal of sports is not to have the privilege of children rich but accessible to their children, future health checks for children from six to 14 years of age are predicted to be free of charge when they are carried out at a health institution or at the Institute of Sports and Medical Sports. It is covered by compulsory health insurance, which will charge the parents' budget on the one hand, and on the other hand raise the quality of these reviews. In order to prevent a bad trend to be particularly with children, but generally all athletes conclude life-long management contracts by making athletes, and especially children become some kind of ownership of others, it is said that agreements on ownership with managers can be concluded for a maximum of two years, that these contracts must be certified in accordance with the law which are mandatory elements of these contracts, and when they are concluded with children, they must give consent to both parents. Since today transfers in sport are very popular and the transit of children from smaller to larger environments, clubs are very active, as from our country abroad, in order to preserve children from everything negative that carries their departure from parents, it is suggested that these transfers from the club to the club in the country are only allowed under very strict criteria, which is also very good, which among other things means that the child is provided with an adequate continuation of schooling, honest health care, accommodation and everything else. Special emphasis on schooling, because many, unfortunately, athletes, coaches, and even coaches who should be educators to achieve as much as possible from children as possible in other ways their schooling. International transfers of minor athletes are prohibited except in special cases and according to the criteria and conditions laid down by international sport rules, and in addition because of the importance of this issue and the prevention of anything negative that can be brought by the child. On the other hand, in order to protect clubs, it is said that all the contracts that someone is gaining exclusively economic rights of the club in future transfers of athletes are void. It is possible for medical examinations to be carried out in healthcare services, which includes for the first time and private practice, rather than now only in health institutions. When it comes to contracts between athletes and clubs or sports experts and clubs, the newspaper that is being introduced is that future contracts and all amendments and contracts must be certified in accordance with the law, and whether they will be registered in the Alliance it is left to the alliances to establish their rules, until now it has been a condition that the contract is considered valid, whether it is registered in the Alliance, so in the event of a dispute, it has been very often abused, which is little known. So it became a significant gray zone in sport where there was either no contract or they were fictitious or annexes did not register at all or did not pay taxes and contributions to those contracts, which, of course, led at one point to the fact that a whole series of people from the criminal mile just appeared as social sports workers, precisely using such holes in the law. In addition, only basic contracts at minimum amounts were registered, and the annexes that were not registered were mostly negotiated real amounts, the real obligations between athletes and the club. The desire, as far as I could tell, is to prevent it from being protected by athletes in the future, to have a job internship when they stop playing sports, not to be left to themselves after their careers, without any sign that they've done anything in their lives. It means that they have adequate health care and that they are entitled to pension, which so far has only been in a rare number of cases. The general regime of the law governing labour relations, this law is like a "lex specialis" for sport adapted to real needs and specificities of sport. As athletes are modern-day gladiators, we can often hear it, the rest of them are being determined to provide only top-notch athletes necessarily, because after looking at it, most clubs have been respected so that at this point the insurance of all athletes would be too much financial pressure for them, but the newspaper that is being introduced is that any athlete who is not provided by the club during the performance for the team must be provided by the relevant Union, and I will talk about this a little later when I talk about local self-government and their opportunities to improve the situation in sport. It's a good thing we're introducing the unique visual identity of our team. That the team was no longer like a colorful caravan, as was the case very often in which sponsoring ads dominated our representatives as literally walking billboards and coat of arms and flags are almost seen from various ads. What everyone knows, and a little bit is that our sport has 30 to 40 people in key functions for years, which is one of the key problems of our sport. What doesn't allow the system to improve and open to root out for the future is to introduce that one man can perform only one function in sports. If it can be done in politics, I don't see why not in sports. In addition to tightening the standards that regulate who cannot be a member of the administration and a representative of the sports organisation increases the responsibility of members of the organisation in the field of sport by introducing duties with them, because more functions in sport and organ membership are wanted not only to be treated as benefits but to contribute to a community. To prevent future forms of association of citizens and clubs being abused, clear rules are introduced under which conditions the name of the club and the form of the association of citizens are used. Only those who are in the system of competition and jurisdiction of the alliance can use the name club, gym, various sports schools and all those involved in sports activities, i.e. by providing services in sport, but not by competing in a system recognised by alliances whose primary goal is to acquire profits, cannot use the word club in their name and have to work in the form of a company. In order to equate the position of the association in the field of sport with other associations, which has not been the case so far, it is possible that the club established as an association can directly carry out one business activity by clear rules, only one that is not too heavy and that it is registered of course in the register. The important news is that if the club can't continue working for any reason, it can offer a local self-government unit to take over with all the rights and obligations it has. This is how it is transformed into a sports business. The regime of sports arbitration is also an important issue. Adjusted to the current general regime and the needs that have been applied by the current Sport Act, the important news that we are introducing is the possibility of establishing a permanent arbitration court by the Olympic Committee of Serbia, the Sports Union of Serbia, responsible alliances, which would actually be a major step towards improving Serbia's sports arbitration, because of the importance it has for sport. We come up with the most important things, there's a lot of things that could be touched in the debate and displayed as positive, but what might be most important is the issue of funding in sport. When it comes to funding in sport, it remains at the concept of programming, or project financing, with the basic problem of sharing funds from the level of the locals without criteria. It's a devastating statistic of how many places there are no funding rules or there are, but it's absolutely out of line with the law, as well as the fact that in the vast majority, almost 90% of the local sports budget gets a very often one club. In the future, it is prevented by introducing that no sports organisation can get more than 20% of the total sport budget from the republic and the province and the locals. Mr. Minister, I know that very often you have a variety of requirements when it comes to different environments, that very often these requirements are unrealistic and that very often many rely on the ministry to do something, or that it will do so to the Sports and Youth Secretariat, I think it is very important who is sitting in our local alliances, especially in sports alliances, in cities and how they relate, how these people treat sports and athletes. As an example, I would like to point out the city from which I come and the Sports Federation of the city of Sombora, whose president, who, even before this draft of the new Sport Act, has been working on the priorities set out in the Sport Strategy and has been implementing programmes since 2010, which are currently dealing with all those things that are priority in the draft of this Sport Act. I'll just list some of the programs. They are a free school sport for children aged three to six, for children from two to four years who practice with parents, free schools of sports in collaboration with sports associations and members of the alliances, free recreation for women in the town of Somboru in populated places, free recreation is introduced for all citizens, free recreation is introduced for people with motor damage and therapeutic swimming, program - stop violence in schools and all programs, most importantly, realising professionals. I must point out that in Sombor, true funding has been regulated in the field of sport through public competitions, criteria, regulations and categorization of sports where everything is public, transparent and consistent with national strategy and rules and where funds have been found to scholarship the most prospective athletes for coaching fees. For what we did last year, and I'm proud of the people I work with, the Sports Union of the City of Sombora has won the most prestigious May Prize as the best sports alliance in Serbia, but I don't want to say this to highlight either myself or the sports alliance that I represent, but I want to say what it is to be serious about sports. The only way is to throw any kind of politics out of the sport. The sport should be returned to the athletes and as president of the association first and foremost what I did, which is that I kicked all the people out of politics, jargonically speaking, counting myself, from all the commissions, where it comes to either the grant of financial resources, or when it comes to the award of terms to various clubs. It is decided exclusively by the best coaches, the best athletes in the city, and today we simply have no problems like we used to have. I'll come back, for example, to what we were talking about, which was spoken of by my dear colleague and dear colleague of the Papuga, when it comes to the Department of Sports and Youth. I believe that this secretariat is just an indication of how politics works in sports. It's just enough for everyone to go to the Sports and Youth Secretariat site and see how funds are shared from that secretariat. You will see exactly the bases of cities and municipalities where a particular party has certain stops where huge financial resources are distributed and where there are absolutely no criteria when it comes to sports results. Of course, you can always separate from these areas of some good athlete, some good coach and say – here we are helping sports there. I'm saying this is a classic example of sports politics. The Sombor City since it won the May Prize has not received a single dinar from the Sports and Youth Secretariat. I knew exactly that on the political line we wouldn't get those funding even though we only applied for programs for children and programmes for disabled people. All in all, these financial assets amounted to a million and a half dinar, we didn't get a single dollar. They got all the others who were alike. For example, millions are set aside for some banana shorts, millions are set aside for various environments where voices are drawn when it comes to a certain political position, millions are given for, you won't believe, that's the first time I've heard, even though I'm a former athlete, that there's a tennis head, and that's what financial means are being allocated, and let's just say we can't single out for people with disabilities and children distracted in development. That's terrible. Of course, the town of Sombor recognized sport as a very important segment of our society and managed to neutralize this kind of non-domestic, firstly, non-domestic attitude towards athletes and the province and this is another key example that it is very important who you choose when you put into office. Unlike you, there is a person who has never confirmed herself in sports, probably, as people like to say, the ball has only seen on television and unfortunately, such people are prone to politics and often bring bad sports and to all those who live off that little sports dinar. How objectively it is possible that one sport has significance for the province or the local region, and that at the level of the Republic there is no such significance. The possibility is introduced that the Region and the locals make their categorisations of sports by following only criteria, not the categorization of the Republic, which is of course good, because it opens up the possibility that the region and the locals may also finance those sports that are relevant to them, although they may not have at the level of the Republic or at the level of the Republic the importance of that sport is smaller. The possibility of setting up a national fund for the development of sport by the Republic as a budget fund, which would be financed from budgets and all other sources, primarily with the aim of creating opportunities for new sources of funding for sport, where funds would be invested transparently and spent primarily on the development of recreation and incentivising the sport of all citizens, especially children, youth, women and persons with disabilities, with both the Region and localities able to establish such funds within their respective competences and for the needs of their territory. It's a lot of good, like I said, in this law. This is one of the laws that shouldn't be praised. I think we should just meet the citizens and those who are a little less interested in how good this is for our children in the first place, and for the health of the nation. It should also be added that a four-year development plan is being introduced by the relevant alliances, which is also good because a lot of this has been done in our sport, and most of the results have been left to the interest of a small number of people around the athlete and his family. A cash prize is being introduced for sports teams from first category sports, which wins the highest European and world medals, in order to motivate clubs to achieve results and reward and recognize the importance of trophies, which are won by our clubs. Privatisation in sport is proposed by special law. It's one of the key topics in the sport we're going to discuss in the future. This law, of course, cannot be fully defined when it comes to privatising sports and only comes to some topics and segments. It's something that's waiting for us and that's inevitable after this law. The newspaper that's also being introduced is also part of the...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48042	You've wasted your time. Thank you. Now the minister will answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48043	Anyway, thanks for giving me a chance to talk. Once again, great support from our MP club at the Department of Sports and Youth.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48044	Wait for the answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48045	Thank you for your support, both for your congratulations and for my portfolio and for my personal support. We think it is very important to stress that not only is the European Championship extremely successful, but the pools we bought will be transferred to Vrnjačka Banja and we are making this year's water polo national training centre. It's one responsible behavior in relation to both the organisation and the competition, where we want something to stay after the competition without the money being spent only on the organization, although of course it is an important segment. I want to point out that on today, no athlete is owed a single dollar. That, on all grounds, it has been paid for both programmes and scholarships and national recognitions, for everyone, and for the prizes because after five days, the waterpolice received awards and has now become a practice for athletes after winning the medals at the European, world championship or the Olympic Games to receive the prize within seven days or within five days. And I've personally been waiting for rewards for two years, and that's why I know how important that is. What we want to brag about is that we are alliances that go to the Olympic Games, i.e. The alliances that provided participation in the Olympic Games on 15 January paid off the funds and that this is the same big shift when we talk about funding sports and monitoring our Olympics and the desire to follow their programs from the moment they start preparing for the Olympics. They used to be paid in May for the first money and programmes have been funded since May by the Republic. We just want to recognize the importance of the programme, the importance of preparation and the importance of the funding as soon as possible and this is a huge step forward, when you release the money to the alliances on January 15th. This shows the fact that the government's attitude towards sport is never better and that is why I thank all the ministers who have recognized the importance of sports at the moment, and thank you for constructive ideas and suggestions. Thank you for your commendation, and just through some details we'll discuss in the amendment day, some of the suggestions you mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48046	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48047	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, during this debate, listening to previous discussions would get the impression that there are no problems in sports in Serbia today, but the fact is that this is not the case today. We have the top scores of athletes, we're proud of them, I agree that they're among the best ambassadors of our country, but when you read the news of sports, it's often like news from a black chronicle or news from some tabloids, some news is escalating. If the problem is the law that exists until today, I have not heard in previous discussions that this is the case. Whether this law will solve those problems, I'm not sure. The bill itself is not bad, it has improved some of the things that have been shown in practice for the past four years not good enough, moving in certain things in the right direction, but it does not go to the end and our amendments are going towards ensuring even greater transparency in funding, to make even greater depoliticalisation in sport secure, to reduce the impact of gray capital and all that ugly going on in sports today. This law was planned to be passed in 2014, so in 2015, the beginning, stood in the government's plan, I think, March 2015. It was delivered at the end of last year and here today, in February, January, I don't know what month it is today, we adopt it. The fact is that there was a broad debate and that it certainly achieved the widest possible consensus of all those who work in sports and who want to contribute to a better sport in Serbia. But the problem, I say again, is not the law. The problem is its application, both this old one and this one, which we are likely to adopt today, or the next day. The law itself, this old one, envisioned 24 sublegal acts, a variety of rules, strategies, decisions, and in the light of the law, states that only one rule was not passed - the school sport rule. We have heard many days about the importance of school sport and we fully agree with you, Minister, that what may be most important to develop in the coming period is school sport, to expand the base, to raise the health of the nation, so we agree. But what guarantees us that this condition that, here, has not happened since 2011, only that rule has not been passed, is it only said in one sentence – because of the disagreement of the people who worked in making that rule, whether it will achieve consensus or not? What will be the quality of the other 14 new regulations, which this law provides for? What time will they be brought? Will these previous rules be improved in accordance with the law quickly enough to move things in sport to the better? We fully agree with the minister that sport should be available to everyone, but that's not the case today. Are we interested in whether what this law provides will remain just a dead letter on paper or whether the government will do something concrete to change these things? We have serious doubts here. How can we count on the development of school sports, if the minister in charge of education has an obligation to fire several thousand employees in education? These two things are in collegiate, for the development of school sport it is necessary to hire new teachers and teachers, because there is obviously a lack of quality programs. They have no one to design and implement. Says the law, somewhere out there, that priority in the use of school sports halls has, of course, schools and that only when all the terms related to the programs come true, then those free terms can be on the market. But what's the case today? There are no programs, no school activities, no one to carry out them. There are no teachers, they're not paid, they're not motivated to do that, and then it's up to clubs and sports to become a privilege of rich people, or those who have money, kids whose parents have money to pay to train some sport, and then for school competitions, those who train in clubs to perform for school. He doesn't create schools, no training schools, no handballs, some other sports, but he trains in clubs, and then these kids get picked up and then they represent the school. These things need to change. Whether or not it will change, the question remains. We were also talking about recreational sports here. I found it very interesting to read in the light of the laws on how people in the EU and Serbia deal with recreational sports. According to research, 40% of people in the EU are engaged in recreational sports. In Serbia, the percentage is 10%. And in the EU 34 never, and 56 in Serbia never, as the minister said, has any activity. Is this going to change? And in what way? I didn't hear about it today and yesterday nothing. What we think is good, it's a step, but in our opinion small, insufficient, to make funding in sport more transparent. It is predicted that the APR report is submitted, that these reports are being published there, but we believe that this is not enough and that such reports are not transparent enough for Serbian citizens to see how their money is spent, not only for budget cuts, for programmes that clubs adhere to the ministry and local self-government, and for that they get some money, but also for financing by public enterprises, by state-owned enterprises, as well as by private companies. As a solution to a number of problems in our sport, first of all in football, here, last year there were several scandals and with allegations of match-fixing in our football Super League, so here and the MPs, I found these reports in the media, asked how things could change, then the answer of the MPs of the majority was that it was privatisation in sport. Unfortunately, this law did not answer that question, and we listened to that almost every time in the previous two years -- when the law on sports, so here we are waiting to see the question of privatization of sports. The top sports clubs, we know for ourselves, that this is a big question, who owns the property they use, who manages clubs, how the state gives funds, how public enterprises decide to sponsor these clubs. It's all non-transparent today. You can't find information about club management on the sites of these clubs, you can't even find it on the APR site. We believe that all these data must be made public and that it must enter into this law. I repeat, privatisation has not been resolved, it's left to some new law. The minister said – a working group was formed, but what is the deadline? When will this subject come to the agenda and will it solve all these problems? If we think he's going to solve it, then why isn't it done now with this law or along with this law, that this law is also in the process here? We also consider our proposal through some amendments that the politicisation of sports, i.e. the impact of politics, is reduced as much as possible and that in the boards of clubs and alliances under the letter of the law, politicians, or members of the political parties, can no longer sit. Some parties have announced this as part of their political programmes. It was also the biggest party to announce it as its decision. Some of Serbia's biggest party officials have done it, some have not. We believe that this should not be a good will for individuals or parties, but for the letter of the law. We think it's a good thing that high-end athletes' contracts are now put together and certified in accordance with the law, but we think there should be protection against discrimination in cases where a athlete refuses to, say, transfer. He has the right under the law to refuse, but it is not said whether or not he will be protected from the consequences. We believe that the register that is being introduced must be wider than what is proposed in the bill today, that it must be clear and mandatory to find information about founders, administrations and annual financial reports that will specify exactly which sources and how much money clubs and alliances are financed from. These things have, in our opinion, gone in the right direction, but not yet taken that step, and I hope, Minister, that will depend on our support at the end of this law, in which way you will treat these amendments. Sports in Serbia is important for Serbian citizens. We like to say, and we probably are a sports nation, but I think some things by the state should change. Today in Serbia, over 100 sports branches are of particular importance, of particular interest to Serbia. It basically means that all your sports are going into budget funding, they can compete with their program. The question is whether it is appropriate for a country the size of Serbia. So many sports of interest to Serbia, we believe it is too much. The countries of our size and our financial opportunities have an estimated double number of such sports. I think it's time, if we know what a difficult financial situation we're in, that there's a certain revision. Good in this law is the definition of amateur and professional competition. It is good that it is possible for the Sports Union and the Olympic Committee to assume jurisdiction in certain sports branches in crisis situations. What a lot of colleagues have said, and that is one quality of this law, a clearer definition of health care, which speaks - a mandatory health review of everyone participating in competitions, a mandatory medical examination of all extracurricular activities and school competitions. But we don't think it's until the end and in the best way it's solved what happens for sports reviews when you join clubs, work, practice, participation, club training, or who's costing. For young people up to 14 years of age, this falls under the cost of compulsory health insurance. But what about the older one? The law says that costs are covered by a club, an alliance, or I'm a sportsman. When, in what cases will clubs, alliances do it, and when is it left to athletes themselves? Also, we believe that it is necessary, no matter how much it is always said that sports is healthy and that recreational and moderate sport activities are healthy, training certain sports also carries certain health risks. I think it is necessary to emphasize to children, parents or recreationals who want to participate in such sports as possible risks, that it be the obligation of clubs to organise those sports. Minister, you also talked about how there are only three sports inspectors today and that it is impossible for those 12,000 sports associations to control in the right way and that this law now opens up the possibility that sports inspectors work with local self-governments. But it's back in collegiate with government policy, which predicts that 10,000 people are fired from local self-government within the next few months. Well, then where do you find money in those budgets for new people and is that real? How will this be financed and will we have more sports inspectors who, under this law, will have much more work and obligations? You were now talking about a national water polo centre that will be built in Vrnjačka Banja and this law recognises national sports facilities. There was also talk of a national stadium. Over a million citizens have taken money from their salaries and pensions, the country is talking about 150 million to build a new stadium in Serbia. We find that absolutely inappropriate at this time. A few words at the end, Ministers, Ministers of Youth and Sports, this is the Law of Sports, and you have devoted yourself to your work primarily to sports, but I think in this part of working with youth this country shows poor care or care. We had a bad message a few days ago, when the first announcement was announced, and we canceled the celebration in front of the Waterpolitan Assembly and young mathematicians, the winners of the Olympics. Unfortunately, they did not find themselves in that place, after a completely unmistakable explanation. I think you should take care of both youth and sports. In the end, one piece of advice on my part. You've been a sport for a long time. I've been a politician for a long time. You said in your presentation and explanation of this bill that a third of the medals won in the last 15 years were won. We now have a pre-election campaign coming up in the next few months, and it has already begun. Such statements will certainly be applauded at the pre-election meetings of the Serbian Progressive Party, but if they said so in a public place, believe me, they would experience the same thing you experienced in Belgrade's "Arena" when you set out to thank the Prime Minister and mayor of Belgrade for organising the European Water polo Championship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48048	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48049	I want to thank you for your commendation, but also for pointing out the problems that we are aware of and that we have through certain provisions in the Sport Act, i.e. We wanted to, or we suggested, they aim to solve the same things you talked about. I also want to thank you for the constructive amendments you have submitted, which we will discuss in detail more about them, which are really constructive. I have to answer some of the criticisms you've made when it comes to recreational sports. I can't agree completely with you, because the facts I've said are true, which percentage of people are involved in recreational sports and which ones are not. We want to go right through the strategy on sports and just by imposing obligations, how units of local self-government, autonomous provinces and also the Republic and provisions in the law that deal in detail with improving recreational sport, to distract us, to improve recreational sport and the possibility of engaging in recreational sports in Serbia. But on the other hand, we can't expect someone who doesn't want to be involved in sports, recreation, healthy lifestyles, to be involved. We can't get a man out of the house, we can make an environment, we can make all the conditions. That's why we are when it comes to sports infrastructure being defined to build those fields that are available to everyone, but we can't drag people out of the house and put them on the ground. It also takes the will of others to deal with recreation. Our job is to create all conditions and environments that will meet the needs of citizens of the Republic of Serbia and who will be able to deal with recreation without paying for it. I want to tell you that when you mentioned that we were not working to strengthen recreation, the Ministry of Youth and Sports launched a project of SOFA student, youth and physical activity last year, which today covers 18,000 young people between 18 and 25, who are absolutely free of charge in sports. Every activity is absolutely free of charge. It's a desire to invite young people and impose recreation and sports as a lifestyle and thinking style. I have to tell you, I will always point out the fact that in the last two years we have 56 medals won. We can't hide, we can't celebrate, we can't call on them. Those guys and those girls have been idols for younger generations. It is an indisputable fact, as well as the fact that I had the opportunity to play the European Championship in Belgrade ten years ago and to behave very responsibly and to organise this competition for the same financial means, but the difference is precisely because we wanted something to remain after that competition and build a national training centre, and that is the desire for something to remain after each competition. That's what I was talking about. Not to take up more time, what about your findings on the application of this law and the location of problems, we're just through some provisions, through the strengthening of supervision, through the introduction of timely reporting, through sanctioning violations and larger fines, trying to just draw attention to all of this negatively, and we just want to act preventively through such provisions, not repressively. Once again, I would like to take the opportunity to thank you for your constructive amendments, and I am glad that we will have the opportunity to discuss them in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48050	Thank you. The word is Elvira Kovac, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48051	Dear Presidents, the Presidency, Mr Minister, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the very beginning of my presentation, I would like to commend to me from the parliamentary group of the Duchy of Hungarians, a positive and good bill proposal, as well as the way in which we came to it, or I would like to commend the broad public debate held in the past period, as well as the positive practice, that the honourable Mr. Minister and Associates presented this proposal to you a few weeks ago in the small hall of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. First of all, I would like to commend, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians, the fact that no matter what during the public debate, meaning, the original legal text was such that we were afraid that the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina would be reduced, the objections were respected in the final legal text that is currently in front of us. All the powers of the AP Vojvodina have been preserved, those provided for by the Law establishing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, and even certain members of this bill, have been determined by additional powers which I will discuss a little later. Unfortunately, I didn't attend your opening statement yesterday, Mr. Minister, but I sent to the media what you said and I apologize if I repeat some facts, but the fact is that the current law was passed in 2011 and that certain provisions of that law have ceased to apply. Some are due to amendments and additions to the Business Registers Agency Act. The second known fact that you have probably talked about, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has brought a strategy for sport development, now for four years, means from 2014 to 2018, and based on the Strategy, the general objectives have actually been defined, and what I would most like to talk about is precisely because of the decentralisation of both the competences of the AP Vojvodina and the plan for the development of sports at the level of local self-government, because there are certain concerns, the issues of people from local self-government. We certainly welcome that one of the basic goals that respected colleagues have already spoken today, the improvement of school and university sports and perhaps the most significant physical education of preschool children, but of course also the provision of conditions for increasing sports in all segments of the population, especially children, youth, women, persons with disabilities and so on. The overall goal should be to reduce the percentage of deformities and fight a major problem, which is that an increasing number of citizens have a problem with obesity. Of course, the aim of the adequate application of this law that we will adopt in a few days and which is certainly good should also be to provide conditions for the development of top and professional sport and the development of sport infrastructure. It is generally known that despite the current law adopted in 2011, it is not that old, there have been certain inaccuracies and inapplicability of individual solutions to the law. It is not in line with other legal rules, and individual solutions are not in general in line with comparable legal solutions. So in practice, we have actually come to the inability to properly implement that law. What is most important, which I will probably point out several times, is the need for all citizens, so children and youth, women and people with disabilities to be able to carry on a permanent sport with the support of professional athletes who certainly achieve top-notch results. On the other hand, the generally known fact that the bill also contains certain provisions of the old legal solution, but these are the provisions which, if I may say so, have been well shown in practice, i.e., which could have been applied in the past. What I would certainly like to emphasise as significant is that the system of programme funding for sports, both from the Republic of Serbia's budget and from the budget of autonomous provinces, units of local self-government, and certain provisions are aimed at improving the established funding system. You, Mr. Minister, pointed out yesterday afternoon in your opening statement that the law should improve the entire system of sports and regulate the financing of sports, that practice has shown that funding of the sport of the state works well, but that local self-government is not so. You were also talking about the Regulation, so the law provides for the adoption of rules on local self-government, in the financing of clubs, so that all clubs have the same chance. Certain representatives of local self-government disagree, say they never have enough resources to respect all their obligations, it's nice to have jurisdiction, but the question of what to pay for, to respect each club that for them 30, 40, 50,000 dinars are not some big money, and in addition, it is necessary to finance the maintenance of some facilities and even the construction of new ones. The problem I would like to point out is that the fact that the Republic budget is very little is funded by those clubs that are not from Belgrade. I would not like to offend fans or "Stars" or "Partizana", but I believe that there is life both outside "Stars" and "Partizana", that there are clubs that are not from Belgrade and that are not getting enough attention or financial support from the republican budget. It's a very sensitive question, but you're probably aware that when we talk about sports that aren't football or extremely popular sports, they're getting smaller and smaller. When we talk about women's sports that it's something that doesn't get enough public attention, I hope it applies in the future. For example, a concrete example is the women's football club "Spartak" from Subotica that achieves extremely good results, not only in the country, but also in international European competitions, but also in the face of huge financial problems and we are asked, and I would also like to point out how to pay attention to, of course, financial support and those clubs that are not from the capital, but from other cities of the Republic of Serbia. What was probably said, and many ask, "What about privatisation?" The fact is that, from this proposal for a law on sport, an abandoned part relating to the privatisation of social and state capital, i.e. assets, contained in the still valid Sport Act, first because nothing happened in 2011 and what was inapplicable and good is that this issue will be resolved by means of a special law. It is certainly interesting and we would like to commend the provision under which the National Border Sports Federation is obliged to initiate the disciplinary procedure and to apply the disciplinary measures laid down by sport rules against its members who, as the organizers of sports events, do not take the required measures for the organisation of sports events and it is certainly significant that so far the National Council on the fight against violence, misbehaviors at sports events, replaces, if I may say so, the National Council for the Prevention of Negative Events in Sports is envisaged in place and that its competences are actually extended. In addition to preventing violence at sports events, the event is responsible for fighting doping in sports, match-fixing, and is extremely important for the Republic of Serbia, meeting international obligations in these areas. And as I promised at the beginning of my presentation, I would like to do a little more detail on the original and trusted competences of the AP Vojvodina in the field of sports. In fact, in the part of the draft law on the general interest and the needs of citizens in the field of sport, two of the most important issues have been regulated, what is considered to be a general interest in sports for the Republic of Serbia, or what is considered to be the needs of citizens in the field of sport, which are met in the autonomous provinces of local self-government units and how the choice of these programmes will be actually made, which will be financed from public revenues. The needs and interests of citizens in the area of sports in the autonomous province, for which funds are provided in the AP Vojvodina budget, include building, equipment, maintenance of sports facilities of importance for the autonomous province, promotion and promotion of the practice of sports citizens, as we have repeatedly stressed, especially these sensitive categories, children, youth, women, persons with disabilities, etc., and the work of the Regional Institute for Sport and Medical Sports, as well as other sports organisations, whose founder is an autonomous province. The development of sports branches that are of particular importance for the autonomous province, already mentioned, preventing negative phenomena in sport at the level of the autonomous province and improving the protection of the health of athletes and also extremely significant two positive things, rewards and recognitions for the achieved sports results and contribution to the development of sports in the autonomous province, scholarships for the sport improvement of categorized athletes, especially perspective athletes. So it is extremely important that these powers of the autonomous province remain preserved, even extended. Namely, an autonomous province through its authorities, among other things, determines sports facilities of importance for an autonomous province, provides conditions for the work of the province's Sport and Medicine Institute and other sports organisations, whose founder is an autonomous province. And as trusted businesses, it regulates closer conditions for the use of public sports grounds in the territory of an autonomous province and controls the implementation of this law on its territory, the territory of an autonomous province. As I pointed out, certain provisions of the bill also determine some responsibilities, define other responsibilities, such as professional surveillance in the sport area. Professional surveillance in the field of sports is carried out by the University of Sport and Medicine of the Republic of Serbia, and on the territory of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina, the Regional Institute of Sport and Sport Medicine through professional sports supervisors, as a trusted job. It is good that sports institutions can establish both the Republic of Serbia and the autonomous province of the unit of local self-government and, of course, the founders' budget should provide, which is always a difficult issue, to provide funds for the work of these institutions and the annual programme of work under this law, I approve the founder. Significantly, it is possible that the autonomous province of the local self-government unit can set up a sports development fund, with the aim of supporting the improvement of sports recreation, promotion and promotion of sport, indeed all categories of citizens. What is extremely significant and as far as some long-term plans and strategies are concerned, it is widely known that this bill proposes that the national strategy for sport development be adopted by the government. Interestingly, it was ten years ago, it was a shorter period, which is probably good to have long-term continued planning and a year after the adoption of this national strategy, the autonomous province of the local self-government unit should bring a programme of sport development on its territory, which is certainly good for them to plan. And to sum up briefly and conclude, the proposal for a law on sport is certainly a positive and good regulation and once again I welcome that we have come to the legal text in such a way that we should in all cases and I hope that we are also praised from that point of view, it has indeed been transparent, many have been involved and it has lasted, there has been a public debate, I just hope that the new Sport Act will indeed have success in its application. I hope that both the Ministry and the MPs themselves will control the implementation of this law, so as not to leave a dead letter on paper. And from all of the above, especially because the AP Vojvodina's powers are not diminished and, of course, in the hope that more attention and more financial support will also be devoted to those clubs that may not be so well known for the general public and are not from Belgrade, the SVM parliamentary group will support the proposal for a sport law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48052	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Vanja Udovicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48053	Thank you for your support and suggestions, and we will certainly discuss details in detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48054	Thank you, Mr. Widow. The word has a national MP, Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48055	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, dear Mr. Perunicic, the other members of the ministry, I want to inform you at the beginning of my presentation that the New Serbia parliamentary group will support the proposal for a new sport law in the voting day. Also, I think it is very important that at the beginning of my debate and my presentation on the proposal for a new law on sports, I say that this bill comes at the right time, practically at the moment when I, as a sports nation, will use the same term as I will, as a sports nation, achieve top results and we will win the highest number of medals in individual and team sports so far. Although the original intention of the promoter was to just amend the existing 2011 law, there has been a change in more than 50% of the whole law and we have a practically new law today, because practice has shown for the past few years that it is necessary. I welcome that. The laws don't need to be holy letters, they need to be changed when an opportunity arises, sooner or later. So it turns out we need one system framework to develop sports. The key question is - how to create conditions for quality sport practice and how to improve the base in local communities? It is also a very important question of how to encourage children to play sports and how, as a responsible society and as a responsible state, to create an environment for the development of children in sports spirit? There used to be sports sections in schools, and their children were relieved to get involved in sports in this way, without money giving, without special expense to parents. Today, these expenditures are not small and in times of economic crisis that Serbia is going through are a great cost for parents, to deal with their children's sports, and one of the good provisions of this law is that it reduces the cost of parents and enables children to be more involved in sports. So on this occasion, I would like to stress that the level of membership fees that athletes pay to clubs so far has been limited to 10% of the country's average salary, from now on, that restriction will remain only for minor athletes, while for full-time athletes will be abolished. It is being introduced, although you said it in your explanation, but it is important for Serbian citizens to hear again, that a free medical examination is being introduced for athletes from eighth to fourth year for children, which should also ease the burden on parents. The sport is certainly Serbia's largest and most famous brand and therefore it is necessary for us to build such a system with common forces that will affirm sports values in society and that will allow sport to be available to every citizen. That's why I think it's very important to communicate and form a network of sports for all units in local self-government. It's a good thing that you've had a very wide public debate in the preparation of this law, that you've had almost all these public debates and personally participated in, that you've visited all the clubs, sports alliances, talked to them, seen their problems, and if you've included most of these objections in the new sport law together with your associates, I think that we as a society will be on the way to an additional affirmation of sports. In this new proposal for a law on sports, it is very important to have a few provisions, in my opinion. It's an expertise in working with athletes. I think it's one of the most important factors in the sports system. Also, categorizing sports is very important. We can't possibly like so far, and regardless of the desire of some local self-government, e.g. to support the affirmation of the Kayako Club in Nis if there are no conditions. Then, it's a very important record of clubs. To enter private capital into our sport is not enough just brands of the Red Star, Partizana. We need to have accurate information about the availability of the property of these clubs, about the volume of the debts, to know which would be the scope of the privatisation. What I'm particularly concerned about is the big impact of the bookies on young people. We have clear legal regulations that for children up to 18 years old, practically, they must not participate as minors in this way, but I have the impression that they are very concerned with these results, by participating in bookies. My opinion is that together as a society, together with the Ministry of Education, with schools, with local self-government, we must work more to prevent and reduce the impact of sports bookies on young people. What's a big problem with our sport is certainly violence in stadiums and privatisations, but this sport law doesn't solve it. It's the jurisdiction of some other law. But it is very important that this proposal for a sport law, talented players and younger categories from various sports, will no longer sign lifelong agreements with managers who have been using the difficult economic situation in Serbia, so young athletes are permanently bound to themselves using signed contracts. It is very important to point out that the new law provides that the deadline on which the contract is to be signed may be the longest for two years, with the possibility of being renewed to the same period of unlimited number of times. Also, enough has been included so far in the signing of these contracts. third parties, i.e. investment funds. They bought from clubs players' contracts and all future deals went through that fund, and the athlete became some kind of ownership of them. Under the new law, third parties will be eliminated and the player will only sign contracts with authorised managers, very important, I would say a key provision for the new law. I think it is also very important that the new law on sports precisely regulates the establishment of companies in the field of sport and that the new legal solution took into account that there are sports clubs that are of particular importance for the local level. They're treated like city halls, and they're founded as citizens' associations. They will be able to transform into a company if decisions are taken by the club's assembly, which is agreed by local self-government, to which all founding rights and obligations are transferred. Also, I think it's one of the important provisions of the new law on sports and the fact that our athletes can no longer go without insurance to interstate competitions. An important Sport Act since 2011 adopted the so-called software funding of sports and this has brought excellent results, as from that year to today the number of medals won has increased by 40%. This kind of funding helped get the money directly to the athletes. The big problem remains the financing of our football clubs. Although there are several basic ways in which our football clubs are financed, this does not bring special revenue. These are revenues from TV rights, tickets, sponsorships and still the biggest revenue from football clubs since the transfer. During the debate on the new Sport Act, we could hear that in Serbia, top football will not be until it separates amateurally from professional and until our clubs are privatised. Somewhere in preparation for this debate, I read that, as a minister, you and your colleagues were with your fellow ministers in the surrounding countries and that you discussed the privatisation of clubs with them. I believe that as a ministry you see that way, because it's just something that's waiting for us and that you'll take the best examples into account and try to apply them to us. Also, what's the problem, I think the media has a big impact on sports affirmation, but still, on the other hand, the media is facing a lot of problems. Written media, for example, are facing the fact that they only copy the contents from their portals, that this area with the Ministry of Information should be arranged. I'm going to say just one example of the New York Times, as they've protected themselves, for example. On their portal, the first ten information can be downloaded from the site, but if you want to download the others, you have to pay for it. Also, electronic media has a lot of problems. They say big companies don't finance enough of their sports affirmation programs. We also have a big problem with re-emiting across the border channels with their commercials. I think the situation will now be better with the recent amendments to the Law on Advertising that we adopted. At the end of my presentation, I would like to make one remark that, in my opinion, is quite large. In fact, the new Sport Act does not mention gender equality, the affirmation of women's sports. You know very well, as well as your associates, that 51% of women live in Serbia, that almost half of the medals were won by women, that we have a big problem with women's sports. We as the Women's Parliamentary Network have not been able to submit amendments to the position of women in the system of sports. The women's parliamentary network is made up of 84 MPs. I assume you have that information. At this point, I suggest you consider the following that the amendments submitted by your colleagues and colleagues with your team are well reviewed, and if there are amendments relating to the position of women in sports, to preventing violence against women in sports, to the same role, to the birth role of boys and girls in sports, to accept these amendments. The second proposal is that we now later make these amendments that we think should be in the new law, that you look at them with your associates and then classify them as committee amendments. I think that would be very important, not only because Serbia is a signator of many sports conventions, not only because we should be discussing the new Law on Gender Equality soon, and under which it is proposed that 50% of women will be in executive power. We have no member here that women are at least 30% in the decision-making process, and I think that should be it. Fourth argument, we as a state should soon start negotiating chapters 23 and 24 that are related to human rights, against discrimination. I think you understand me and I expect you to answer these questions. Once again, I want to tell you that the New Serbia parliamentary group will support this proposal for a law on sport in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48056	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Vanja Udovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48057	Thank you for your support. What I want to mention is that this bill has kept all the valid solutions that have proved to be good in practice, but the scope and importance of new solutions has been such that it was necessary to pass a new law. As for gender equality, we will certainly look at the amendments and see if there is a possibility of acceptance. For this very reason, we can discuss the topic of new amendments. In sport, there is no inequality and all the provisions prescribed in the law apply to boys, both girls and all participants in sports, and we do not make a difference when reading any provision in the law. If you want something concrete to point out, we're ready to talk about it. Thank you again for your support.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48058	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word is from MP Jovan Markovic, the authorised representative of the DS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48059	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected fellow Members and fellow Members, is ahead of us, in my opinion, one very important law and at the beginning I want to express my satisfaction that in the analysis of this law I have recognized the great effort and great work that has been made by the minister and his associates, as well as many people who are involved in this work and with this interest in Serbia. When you look at how the law is prepared, when we analyze how a public debate has been conducted and how respected the proposals of the profession are, we can say that we have in principle support for this proposal. If the situation is such that this law covers the functioning of over 132 sports branches, that this law covers more than 13,000 sports clubs, alliances and associations, that this law covers 250,000 athletes who are members of various sports clubs and associations, if of those 250,000 athletes over 1,100 of them with top results, then the minister said in the introduction of the law that he felt great responsibility and a great obligation to come out seriously before the citizens of Serbia, we can support these efforts and understand those words. Furthermore, an analysis followed by a bill that says that more than 18% of Serbian citizens, or every fifth Serbian citizen, are in obesity status, that more than 40% of people with increased hypertension, that only 10% of Serbian citizens are able to deal with some kind of sport once a week, are then devastating results that should be directed in this direction to solve problems. Now I have to express my great dissatisfaction or regret that in these topics and in these places we may not have done more to improve this legislative proposal. I think it's very good that this continuity and feeling and I also understood the message of the minister who pointed out that the results of top athletes in the past two years are really worth the attention and praise. I didn't understand it as a political message, because in that case I would be disappointed, if it were a message, because I know that the minister has in mind that a top sports result takes time, huge work, continuity and advocacy, and in that sense I think he wanted to point out that the law, which was in 2011, was pretty good. So in my discussion, I'm going to look at two things, which I think are crucial and which, in some ways, point to the basic goals that you have set by the bill, or in its application. The first goal is to include citizens of Serbia who should be engaged in sports, or physical education in the coming period. The second goal is to help and support top-notch sports and I think that in this second goal, which may have been the primary one, we can say that the law has made certain shifts, that certain steps have been made. We are aware that it will continue to be a very difficult situation and that the funding problem will be primary in the next period and that many clubs, many athletes, many alliances, will have this problem, but that the law had in mind and regarding health care, contracts, relations with clubs, individuals with clubs, children, parents, etc., that you had this good intention and that this other goal that you planned here and in the next period will be controlled, that it will have some flow and as regards supervision, inspection, support of society, national, border, sports alliances etc. We expect that these results that are top-notch in the previous period will either be better, or at least at the same level. However, what has not been done in my opinion and where a great chance has been missed, we have reacted with a lot of amendments, over 20 amendments have been submitted to the proposal of this law, I think that you will read them very carefully, and we have tried to make our proposals in some key places and on key topics and points, so that we can count on this first goal, which is the rise of citizens who are involved in physical education, exercise, recreation and mass sport, to be achieved. I think the opportunity was missed that perhaps in public debates, respected ministers, especially in Novi Sad, and the debate lasted eight or nine hours, in Nis, where the debate lasted seven hours, you might resolve these dilemmas that are related to the proposal of the profession, to respect some proposals and amendments, first of all, professors and people from the university who have come very seriously, studioically and professionally to these issues, they have indicated to you that the members of the law were 24, 25, 26, 27, in a way and with the proposal that he came into public debate. So these members are talking about professional training, about promotion in the profession, about accreditation, about licenses. A particularly important topic was the training of professionals who did not graduate from high and higher schools, colleges, and who appeared in the role of coaching, to be with some role in the process of training with children. We find it very important that we respect these people, or all those suggestions that went in this direction, that this question must be very precise. We have made amendments that have indicated that it is not good for the Minister and the Ministry to determine regulations, instructions and to prescribe standards and standards of training of such persons, but to be a matter of profession, i.e. that colleges and institutions accredited and competent for that, together with border, sports alliances, are exclusively asked about such procedures, processes and their professional training. The proposal is that the Ministry gives consent to these regulations, but it is not the other way around, and we find it very important that you take all examples, negative examples and bad examples of practices and that we address this problem. We believe that if the key goal is to improve people's health, to take steps in this sense and that direction, that school sport, mass sports, recreation, be dominant in the next period of the state's policy in this area, we need to start from having a large number of professional personnel, that we have a large number of institutions working in this business, but that have not now been able to decide crucially, and this bill, I'm afraid, will not be in the future. The second topic that is very important for achieving this first goal, which concerns increasing the coverage of sports-related citizens, is the role of local sports associations, clubs and organisations. I am fully aware, respected ministers, that you and the government representatives have a big problem that at the local level you have, as some ministers have said, over 90% of the mayors and presidents of municipalities who don't even know why they're here, that they haven't responded to the demands of their jobs and other issues and areas, so that's how it happens in sport and you have a problem with how to now both budgets and infrastructure projects and all other jobs in one good direction, because you don't have associates at the local level. But the fact that you don't have local associates doesn't necessarily mean that you're losing the system, or that you're not building a system that will produce results at some point. In the case of Užica, I'll just tell you that from 2008 to 2012, precisely with the desire for young people to have an offer, with the desire for young people to have a chance to play sports, to make progress in every sense, to make a huge effort and money to finish sports facilities and to, say, finish the pool. You were at the pool, to my great joy, to the great joy of the citizens of Užica, there were preparations for the world championship in Russia of the Serbian national team, and you, the selector and many other people said it was one of the most beautiful pools in the country. You see, we worked that pool after 40 years requiring the citizens of Užica to build such an object and we experienced that with the change of government, the political structure that came to completely abuse this concept, that object and that it was kept locked up for 10 months. So, the parents were forced to continue the children to take training to Zlatibor. Over 20 people were admitted there who received salaries for 10 months, and the facility was out of use. In those 10 months, 50 million salaries and maintenance costs have been made. Now you have a situation that these people who have this facility in such a way should further improve it, put it in the position of the citizens. They simply don't understand what their role is, what the role of the pool is and what the function of this facility should be. It was similar with the stadium. When we were building the stadium, Freedom played first league, we were playing European games, now it's the second league. As far as basketball is concerned, we played the first league, the league final in the first league, now it's the second league. The volleyball, too. And many other things and many other sports. Then you have a situation that what is invested, and huge money is invested in infrastructure now, it simply doesn't have a function and says – so you've done this needlessly. Now, I know it's hard for you to come and talk to these people, talk about a vision and how what we did in infrastructure should be for the benefit of the citizens and get down to the level of school sport, recreation, mass sports and function of people and health. You've got a lot of cases like that. But that doesn't have to, again, be the reason why you don't pass a law that will systematically solve certain problems in the next period and that what has been done is actually the basis on which everyone will continue to function, progress and that this first and primary one, in my opinion, and the basic goal that you have and achieve. So I think that the role of local administrations in the budget, i.e. programming budgeting and infrastructure building, and in any other sense, and through the role of local sports alliances here is neglected in the law, i.e. that it needs to be particularly worked on, because that is the chance that in the next period you will come up with the coverage that we are actually talking about here. I also believe that, if we are talking about this local level, it is extremely important that, in addition to the professional staff and the people who have graduated from colleges, your desire for budget funding is linked to programme funding in the sense that the state must go through its concept, and this is the concept of achieving the first goal, the primary task, to impose itself on each level, and also on the local level. If you link that up, and if we tie it to a common story, one common goal, with the idea that local budgets in the next year's programming are put, say, school sports and competitions and recruiting as many children as possible. If you do that, you'll get a lot of ideas out of those people who aren't busy today. Then you'll give it a chance for all the people who want to deal with these activities to give the programs through some of the profits. We've been doing some very nice projects in Užica. One of them was in 2011 - a unique school league, with the goal of, say, handballing, and then basketball, organizing competitions through all schools, where teachers will work with children, where they will have sections, training processes and eventually in the second half of the match competition. For very little money we raised such energy and activity in the city that thousands of young people participated in the project. They couldn't wait till next year. They found themselves sponsors for transport, for shirts, for uniforms, for sandwiches, for many other things. It was stopped after a while, like a lot of other things. I'm telling you this as an idea. If we're talking about raising the quality of school sport, it's also like the idea to set up school sports alliances with the establishment of school leagues, school clubs, and that would be a significant step to hire all those people who don't have a job and have good projects and ideas in the next period. I've got to put this together for the membership fee. I think you've been missupported by your other colleagues. I don't think it's a good amount. It needs to be limited, but I don't think it's a good suggestion to introduce 10% of the average wage as a principle for everything and a commitment for everything, because then we have a problem. Let's just say you have a couple of swimming clubs in Uzic after the pool's opening. Swimming clubs don't have budget support because they're just found clubs, and they still have to work. There's a lot of interest in children. They must contract to rent swimming trails with a pool and it is impossible for members of children of three, four thousand to finance their activities. If you limit that, then we get into trouble, parents would, parents can pay for it, but you'll have a problem negotiating between clubs and parents on that basis. Either in tennis or in some other sports that are individual. If Novak Djokovic were to see it that way, he would now not be the number one racket in the world, but rather be collecting rackets for others. So we should limit it, but we should also try in some way to accept reality on the ground and allow for some more free way of bargaining and access. I think, Minister, when we talk about the missed opportunities in this law, the chance to take a step in the business of privatising clubs has been missed. If we are aware that this is a major problem of sport, a big problem of society, that it is a solution to privatisation, you had to take advantage of this opportunity, your authority and the work of these people on the ground to come up with a proposal whether within this law, whether within the framework of the second law, but to be a package and to be at this moment. Another thing, more precise and clearer funding as another key problem and sports alliances and clubs and individuals. The third thing, we've given amendments to this area, and that's violence in the stadiums, and I urge you to look at our amendment to Rule 167, because I think that, in addition to all the measures you've predicted, there's not enough attention to prevention. We have proposed that the representatives of the education ministry be in the commissions and councils you will form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48060	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The word has a minister. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48061	Thank you for your support and for the constructive suggestions we have discussed very closely and we will certainly and in detail discuss all the individual proposals that you made in the day of the discussion in particular.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48062	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word is by Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradović, representative of the SPS. Here you go, Mr. Beard.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48063	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister and other members of the ministry, respected fellow MPs, above all, I will, speaking today about the Sport Law and everything that the Sport Act means for Serbia's sports system, take the opportunity to congratulate Novak Djokovic once again on the victory he won in Melbourne, to congratulate our waterpolitans who last week became third in line for Europe's champions. To say that today in Belgrade, the European Football Championship has officially begun. To mention that Belgrade has been organised by the Pre-Olympic basketball tournament, and thus our team has a great chance of being a participant of the Olympic Games again. I didn't happen to mention Novak Djokovic. Novak Djokovic is the best brand Serbia has, so perhaps in history. Maybe Nikola Tesla and Novak Djokovic. Others are here somewhere, but I think Novak stands out for the reason that he's a 28-year-old man who's already been an objectively sovereign ruler of the tennis world and who the world recognizes, and through him also recognizes Serbia. I must say that thanks to the sport that we have in Serbia, we are far more famous than we think, because I have made one comparative analysis – Serbia has seven and a half million inhabitants, registered athletes are 250,000. That's 3.3%. The top athletes within those 250 thousand are 1.117 or 4.5%. The results they achieve are such that they must absolutely be respected, and respect implies constant emphasis, because it is part of a system of values in a society that helps and develops sports. I am fully convinced, that's my personal opinion, if it hadn't been for the victory of the team in basketball in 1970 in Ljubljana when we became world champions, the question is whether we would have been Olympic winners in Moscow and would have been world champions and Olympic champions more than once. If it hadn't been for the water polo team, it seems to me, in Mexico City in 1968, the question is, what would have happened after that? You're a top athlete and you understand these words. You're also a promoter, not only of the ministries and sports that you represented, not of water polo, but of sport at all, we must do everything we can to make sport the place in the society it deserves. I am saying this because in law I recognized a great desire to improve the system of sports in the Republic of Serbia. In all the solutions offered, you can see the clear desire of the promoter, you, as minister, the Ministry of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that sport gets such a normative framework that it can serve only as a further basis for the development of sport. It's something we appreciate. There are many reasons why the SPS will vote for this law, we think that the law is good and we think it is comprehensive and we think it regulates all those issues that are important for the sport system in Serbia and we think that the law creates a condition for quality practice of sport, that it improves the system framework for development, that it regulates the frameworks where clubs, healthy clubs and states can do every part of their jobs, and that the state does not protect the taxpayers from being protected from irrational spending, to define the responsibility of all participants in the sport system, to regulate the work with children and their protection, I would also mention these medical examinations for children from six to 14 years of age, who are free of charge, who are very, very important, to regulate the role of managers in sport, to highlight the respect of contractual obligations, to promote expertise in the work with athletes as one of sportsmen as well as one of the other, who want to be able to make sure that they are true, defecres of the law, to be true and defactions, to make them, to make them, to be true, to make sure that they of the law, to be true, to be true, to be true, to be true, to the law, to the law, to the law, to the law, to the law, to the law of the law of the law of the law, to the law, to the law of the law, to the law of the law, to the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law, to the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law, the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law, the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the EU. What should be mentioned is that, looking at these figures, and knowing what the economic situation is, we all know or at least most can assume that behind these results, our top athletes stand great, great work, talent, but talent without work cannot be expressed, there is a good organization and support, and that all of this works should exist and base, base, base. That's why I'm gonna focus my presentation on sports law, besides what I've already said, on school sports, university sports, on school and recreational activities. Top athletes are someone who promotes sports, and in order to become a top athlete, you have to deal with sports first. I'm glad that as a proposing in Article 112, which speaks of general interest, you pointed out the things that I think are very important. Namely, speaking of general interest, you are talking about things that are a condition of development and progress in sport, which is to build, equip and maintain sports facilities that are important for various sports in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, taking account, which is very important, of regional coverage and degree of development of sport infrastructure in local self-government units. We mention that the uniform development of sports requires natural and appropriate infrastructure, but I am not sure that in the past account has been kept on the even layout of sports facilities related to the development of individual sports. What I like very much is your regulation of the need to provide conditions for the organisation and maintenance of school and university sports competitions, improving sports recreation, promotions and promoting the sport of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, pointing out, especially children, women, young people and persons with disabilities, also the fight against negative phenomena in sports, doping, violence and misbehaving, setting up sports results and others. These are very important and related things to me, because sport cannot be top-notch and cannot be the value we promote if we are not at the same time fighting those negative things that sport carries with it, that is, which individuals bring into sport in order to achieve their results. When it comes to school sports, it is important to point out that this law provides the basis for the development of school and university sports. I keep saying, I don't think it's something that needs special proof, that school sport is terribly important, not just for the health of children, if you will, and for mental strength, for the way you think, for the way you live. Whoever is involved in sports in any part of his life, at any age, will know what it means to play sports, learn to win, but also to lose, so is life. I'm saying it can't be won if you haven't lost, because defeat gives you energy, a desire to win, of course, if you really want to do these things, but that's the way it is in life. Nothing goes straight, we have to learn about both ups and downs. What I'm glad is that your Ministry promotes school sport. You didn't say much about it because of the limited time you had, you didn't say enough, but I can, as one of the participants of this debate, I can promote what is done in schools, say that school sport is very present, that in 2015 about 150 thousand girls and boys were included in school sport, that at the level of municipal championships there were 96,765 students, that there were more than 28,800 students in the district championships, at 7.224 pupils, at the intercircular championships, there were 5,584 students, that among the favorite sports, or sports that applied to school competitions, there were athletes, as queen, basic discipline, swimming, sports gymnastics, small football, basketball, handball, handball, table tennis, shooting, small tennis, tennis, tennis, jute. Interestingly, among the students is the favorite sport of volleyball, then, to the surprise of many, statistics speak, small football, then handball, and among the students small football, basketball and volleyball. I would also mention the information you have announced in this material, but which you did not publicly point out as a minister, that the district with the percentage of the highest participation of children in the school competitions Sremski District, Pomorava County and the Pyrotski District, which is very important, because it speaks of one, if I may say, of equal distribution and importance of sport in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I am glad that in this material that the Ministry has made and which speaks of school sport, I also see a picture of our coach of Mr. Aleksandr Djordjevic's basketball team, because I think that people who are active in sports, who have achieved top-notch results, and here I am counting on you and the president of the Olympic Committee of Mr. Divac and the Grbic brothers and all the others, I know that I can hurt some if I don't mention them, and there are so many people who have contributed to the success of sports in Serbia, they should be someone who promotes sports, because they have become famous thanks to sport and that must be said. I mentioned the Grbić brothers, many people in Vojvodina know about the Klek first and foremost through the Grbić family. When you mention volleyball, we all know, or at least most of those who follow volleyball know about the "Slat" from the King as the center of volleyball sport and the place where many talent and present members of our team came from. When it comes to school sports, me, as a man who has two daughters and who has dealt with the regulation of the issue of education, thus and school sports, is very happy that your Ministry is working with the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development and is promoting sports in schools, school sports. I've seen, I've carefully read the law, on page 168 of this law, and you've given an explanation why this rule has not been made so far about school sports. I like the explanation you wrote here and I will read it – the essential paper of this law is that the school is placed at the heart of all activities in the development of school sports, with the potential for the involvement of students and students in school and university sports. This does not deny the importance of school and university sports competitions, but does not put them first. Every child in school should be given the opportunity to play sports, and those involved in sports that are part of sports competitions at school, regional level or beyond, they will be special participants, but each should be given the opportunity to participate, because then it is the real development of school sport. I can't help but mention the need to develop sports at the university. At the time when I was a student, one of the obligations we had was that the obligation was physical education, teaching classes, and also taking swimming lessons in Banjaca. What's interesting, and that's what I told you, Mr. Minister, on the board when we talked about this sport, those swimming lessons, if I may say, were led by a celebrated representative, Mr. Sinisa Belamarić. This tells you how many professional people have been engaged in the realization of student obligations. I'm sorry it's not here today. I welcome your idea of writing it in the law and I welcome your initiative in advance that, if possible, at the level of higher education, it is once again possible for students to engage in sports activities through this obligation. It won't hurt in this global world. You mentioned yourself that kids today are more concerned with phones, iPads, televisions and other things, and sport somehow stays out of the way. We need to motivate them, somewhere over mandatory classes, somewhere through sports sections, extracurricular activities, somewhere through recreational activities. I think sport is very important for health and for the future of children. Allow me, Mr. Minister, to mention another activity behind which your ministry stands, along with the Ministry of Education, too, which may not be sufficiently affirmed by us. It's about Cross RTS, a 25-year event that took place back in 1991, at the time of the SFRY, which has grown since the day-long competition that lasts throughout the year, from April to April of the following year, which takes place through five different events. One of them is Cross RTS through Serbia, where there were over half a million girls and boys last year. Look out, half a million girls and boys, over 94% of the school population participated on that cross, the commission was to run, not drugs and violence. Of course, the second part of that cross is the cross "In Diaspora", which is organised in 15 countries of Europe, where children run with parents living outside Serbia, and then they later have the opportunity to be our guests in their home country. Then a cross series of RTSs, a competition finale of the RTS Cross held in the fall, four to five Saturdays in so many cities and municipalities where two to three thousand run, even in this case and preschoolers, of which only two races are senior. The camp for children and facilities of the Ministry of Education and Science are part of this project of maintenance of the Cross RTS. I also have to mention camp for gifted children, racing children, "Alexander Petrovic". I mentioned Cross RTS for the simple reason that it's about athletics, the sports queen, about a sporting event that gives birth to many champions. I found information from people who are dealing with this crossover that 90% of Serbia's athletic team participated in these competitions, that many of our famous athletes were also participants in Cross RTS, that Cross RTS helped develop athletics in many of the cities of the Republic of Serbia. Allow me, Mr. Minister, at the very end to mention another activity that is recreational, but deserves to be mentioned, it also has your support, the support of the Ministry of Sports and Youth, it is part of the work done by the Sports for All Association of Serbia, and I would mention World Challenge Day. I think it's worth mentioning because there's a lot of things they do. But I would mention the World Day of Challenges held every year, the last Wednesday of May in the whole world. The co-ordination of this most massive sporting event on the planet is run by the European Organisation for International Sport and the most diverse programme content of animations around 70 countries with the participation of over 60 million athletes, recreationals and lovers of physical activity. In Serbia, the Association "Sport for All", under the auspices of the ministry that you run and the Sports Union of Serbia, municipalities and cities compete in five categories, promotes physical activity for health, regardless of gender, racial and social, economic and other differences, through a wide range of content and points to the inexhaustibility of infrastructure facilities and earthly areas for the realization of each of the created content, with the ambition to become a daily need of citizens of numerous local communities. You will forgive me for quoting this part of the content that the Sports for All Association is doing, but I felt it was necessary because other fellow Members today, speaking of the law, paid attention to other aspects of the law. I think this is the law we all agree on. As you have seen, there is no misunderstanding, nor can I say, difficult questions. Maybe it's easy for you or your colleague on the left, Mr. Perusic, you're top athletes, so you understand better than any other matter that presents itself, but you have to understand us. And we love sports, at least these MPs who have spoken to us today, and I can see that a large number has applied. We all want one thing – that our sport in Serbia is better than it is, and it is already the best of all, if I may say, these public areas that exist and we want, of course, to affirm sport, as an important part of the culture of life, as an important part of the personality of every man, but also as an important part of the identity of the Republic of Serbia. Thanks to sports, but again, thanks to sport, Serbia has been so affirmed over the past decades that I really don't know whether national recognitions or cash benefits can be an adequate reward for all those people who have dealt with different sports and who have spent a lot of money in their lives to become top athletes. It's not easy being first. The sport, on the other hand, is very harsh. I didn't happen to mention Novak today as the first topic and the need to congratulate him because, you know how he is in sports, today you're the first, tomorrow some other news is news day and then it's quickly forgotten. We don't need to forget our sports aces. We should not forget our sports sizes, nor our sports results, and we should affirm them in the right way because this promotes sports and promotes Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48064	Time, Mr. Beard.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48065	I think this law is an excellent law. Our parliamentary group, the SPS parliamentary group, will support this law in the voting day, and thus everything you do as a ministry and government of the Republic of Serbia to develop sports in Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48066	Thank you, Professor Obradovic. The word has a minister. Here you go, Mr. Widow.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48067	Thank you for your kind words and for your support and for your part recognized the importance of the law itself. I share your opinion of Novak and the other athletes mentioned. Also, I thank you for very detailed consideration and constructive suggestions. What it is for the purpose of having this law is to improve the system of sports, as you said. That's why we, and that's exactly what you mentioned, paid the most attention to those standards, to make our sport more accessible and to make the environment in which this law is being implemented better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48068	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has an authorised representative of SNS National MP Adrian Anastasov. Here you go, Mrs. Anastasia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48069	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, it is indeed a great pleasure that we have today such a high-quality proposal for a law on sport that has indeed had the widest possible public debate. As we have heard today from all the mandated promoters, indeed no one has any concrete objection to this bill, I am pleased that they will have the support of all MPs and all MPs and that we can agree on something this important today in this room. I would really like to say that it is a great honor to have a top athlete at the head of such an important and important ministry - the Ministry of Youth and Sports, a sportsman whose sports performances we have all looked forward to together, and today in our work as Minister of Youth and Sports we have really significant, great results in the area of development and improvement of the system of sports, but also in the area of developing youth policy and support for young people because we now really have the opportunity to visit all corners of our beautiful country and indeed, in addition to developing in sport, care for young people and the development of youth policy. Before I look back on the many successes we had in the previous 2015, so, in a historic, sports year for us, the most successful, I have to look back at the European Water polo Championship, which took place from January 10th to 23rd, which was indeed an extraordinary promotion of Serbia's water polo in Serbia and Serbia and Europe and in the world, where we have indeed, by many estimates, had the most successful and best organization so far. Over 100 matches were played. Each match was visited with thousands of people, and of course the crown of the organisation, the European Championship finale, where two Serbian-Montenegro teams played, where there were over 17,000 viewers. Speaking of the results of our athletes, it's really not politicizing, but it is that in the last two years we really have great results. First of all, 30 medals, record 30 medals in 10 sports at European and world championships. A third of the medals in the last year and a half, of 173 medals, 56 in the last year and a half, but what is most important and most important, as well as how the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Youth and Sports treats athletes in Serbia, is that there was no delay in cash compensation, no delay in any kind of payout in sports. Whether it's for regular programmes of alliances, camps, national recognitions and awards or international competitions, but indeed, no athletes have been damaged, no sports alliance, no club. On the contrary, European finalists, i.e. European winners of the gold medal in water polo only days after the final, received their cash fees, which shows an excellent relationship between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Youth and Sports towards our top athletes. I say, there was not a single payment delay, related to the financing of national border sports alliances, for 2016, a total of 1,585,000 dinars was allocated. I must say, the minister noted that this year is the first war, i.e. The first amount of funding by the state, even on 15 January, passed on to certain sports alliances, if not all, and that the Athletic Union had announced on that occasion and said that, for the first time in eight years, transfer funds had been implemented, that this would allow for one calm and stability in Serbia's regular programmes of the Athletic Union. We are really proud of all our champions, all our top athletes, they are our best ambassadors and our best representatives in the world, and indeed, who would not want to visit the country of Novak Djokovic, Vanje Udovici, Predrag Peruničić, Milice Mandić, Ivana Spainović, Ivana Maksimovići and all our great young football players, basketball players, handball players, volleyball players, volleyball players, all of our athletes. From all parts of our country we have truly fantastic young athletes, fantastic top athletes, from my city of course, the last in a series is Andrija Zivkovic, a young footballer from Palilula, where I come from and indeed the state and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Youth and Sports take care of such talents. What I was about to say, what everyone really mentioned, is that there's a lot of investment in school sports. Over 140,000 primary and secondary school students went through the sport system in 2015. A lot of university sports is funded and also scholarships to top amateur athletes, who are over 360 from 48 different border sports alliances in 2015, which is about 262 million dinars per year. During 2015, the Youth and Sports Ministry also paid national recognitions to national recognitions held by 552 from 20 different sports. When we speak specifically, now about this proposal of the law of sport, we have a public debate that lasted, as everyone has mentioned, a long time. A large number of relevant sports subjects were involved. The debate lasted from 20 April to 1 June 2015 in all cities, in 10 cities on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The debates lasted six, seven hours, in Novi Sad and Belgrade and over nine hours and in all discussions, all discussions were conducted by the personal youth minister and sports minister Vanja Udovicic, at all discussions he gave opening arguments and answered individual questions. I was present at a debate in Nis, which was really good. None of the participants in the debate left without a good answer. Direct participation took more than 1,500 people. Over 88 written proposals have come about the general attitudes on the system of sports and on this bill. As I said, the support of the law was given by all relevant sports entities, therefore, through the Sports Alliance of Serbia, the Olympic Committee of Serbia, the Football Union, the Basketball Alliance, all major national alliances, territorial alliances, the Institute of Sport and Medicine of the Republic of Serbia, the Anti-doping Agency, the Regional Secretariat for Sport of Vojvodina, and most importantly, the law did not receive any opposition from any of the alliances in the system, of the total 104, and 15 major alliances provided written support to this law. Many MPs have talked about concrete solutions that are of quality, I have indeed not heard a single objection to these proposed solutions. Those who have made amendments, we will certainly discuss these proposals in the day to discuss the amendments in particular. Many amendments have also been adopted when it comes to quality solutions. I will mention several fundamental changes and a proposal under the Sport Law proposal. Certainly, the most important thing in Article 19 of this Bill for me is that in future health proposals for children from six to 14 years of age are free of charge and will be in the framework of regular health insurance. This will certainly facilitate the budget of parents whose children are engaged in sports, and the proposed solution that the level of membership fees for minors cannot be greater than 10% of the average earnings. Certainly someone who has one or more kids in the family who are involved in sports will certainly contribute to their budget, and I think this is really one positive thing. When we talk about contracts, we really mean the abuse that happens in sports life, which is that when life-long management contracts are concluded this time, it's said that mediation contracts with the manager can't be concluded for more than two years. They must be assured in accordance with the law, and that minors must certainly get the consent of both parents to conclude the contract. Transfers from the club, of course, are very current not only now but also always, numerous abuses have occurred, now this law introduces a number of changes among other things, that transfers from the club to the club are allowed under very strict criteria, referring to the provision of adequate accommodation, health insurance, nutrition and adequate follow-up education, which is also very important. International transfers of minor athletes are prohibited except in special cases and in special criteria. The introduction is obliged that the alliances must record all transfers and notify the Ministry within 15 days of each transfer being made. Also, agreements between athletes and the club are being introduced, newspapers are being introduced that future contracts must be certified by law, not only contracts, but annex contracts that were previously done. In view of the protection of athletes, their abuse, the fact that they have a job experience after the end of their sports career, the right to retire and adequate health care. I'm glad that now the athletes who are members of the team who participate in the team are being provided. Of course, the opinion of clubs, the position of most clubs was that at this point, the insurance of all athletes would be excessive, but a newspaper was introduced that any athlete who was not provided by the club during the performance for the team must be secured by the competent alliance. Also, introducing a unique visual identity of the team is very important. Sponsors are important, sponsors of the team, but it is very important to see the coat of arms and flags adequately and to see which country our representative teams represent. What is trying to do in politics will be done in sport. The inability to reform and improve the sport system back in 30, 40 years is actually a small number of people who have been in functions for 30, 40 years and are now being introduced that one man can perform only one function. What is also important is that we can change the funding system locally by local self-government units, so that no more than 20% of the total sport budget can be given to a sports organisation. Article 71 introduces a newspaper that if the club cannot continue working for any reason, it can offer a local self-government unit to take over with all the rights and obligations it has and thus transform itself into a sports business. This possibility is given precisely because certain clubs over 80, 90% of budgets give their so-called. "City clubs" and there is simply no possibility of developing other sports, other border sports alliances and other clubs, which are mostly football clubs. That's why this possibility was given as one newspaper in this sport. Also, one of the more positive things where abuses have taken place and athletes have suffered is the lack of clear criteria that are now being introduced, that there is one competent national border sports alliance, because the problem that exists in practice, for example. in boxing or karate is that several national champions exist, and therefore are not adequately funded, are not adequately considered and that is all in order to protect sport. It is also very important to introduce this professional sports exam that will be able to be implemented in sports offices. The professional sports exam is not a big newspaper, but it is simply necessary that alliances, professional clubs have engaged or employed persons who will pass a professional sports exam that will cover only the knowledge of the law, rules, decisions, rules regarding the functioning of sports. So it's nothing weird, it's really very positive. Also, greater transparency is being introduced in the work of the alliances, in the work of clubs, as it introduces the obligation to publish both the sport rules and the financial and audit reports of the alliances, along with a unique database in sport that will contain all the information we need for citizens to really see how much they invest in an individual, in a club, in a particular sports branch. The supervision that is being introduced and where the wider powers of the sports inspection are being given, we have already talked about it, it is beyond what is necessary to really implement this law in the right way. Privatisation in sport is proposed by a special law, but the restriction that sports organisations can have real estates as well as in what way is given in transitional and final provisions only with the government's prior consent and the ministry's proposal to pass the law. What is very important, which will continue for a further period after the application of this new bill and indeed a quality proposal, is work on building sport infrastructure. In 2014 and 2015 more than 411 million dinars were invested in sports infrastructure, in various projects, including the Belgrade Athletics Hall, the Youth Sports Centre Karatash, the sports halls in Bojnik, Užic, numerous reconstructions of objects, especially, since it is very important that I come from southern Serbia, in units of local self-government from the fourth category of development. A number of youth projects that have elements of sport infrastructure, and for 2016, for the realisation of all these projects that I have listed and many others, more than 290 million dinars have been allocated. I am pleased that the Ministry of Youth and Sports is indeed implementing a strategy to develop sports from 2014 to 2018 where we have four basic priorities that we have heard from one of the MPs who spoke before me, which are improving school and university sports, developing sports infrastructure, providing conditions for increasing sports in all segments of the population, so for children, youth, women, persons with disabilities and providing conditions for the development of top and professional sport. Sport must not be an exclusive right of only the privileged layer, it must be available to everyone and we have heard and data that one week in Serbia only 10% of the population is engaged in recreational sport and we hope to change that with further results and further activities in the work of this ministry, and by implementing this bill. I hope that all parliamentary groups and all MPs will vote in favour of this bill in voting day and will support this quality proposal and I am glad that we agreed on something, which is the future of Serbia's sport and youth development in the coming period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48070	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48071	Thank you for your kind words and for your support and for your insight, primarily for making, i.e. the process of drawing up draft laws and the detailed analysis of this bill, as well as of looking at the work of the Ministry of Youth and Sports so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48072	I thank you, Mr. Minister. We move on to the order of the People's MPs according to the application for a word. The word has the People's Messenger Muamer Bacevac. He's not in the O.R. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48073	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Ministers with colleagues, honourable fellow MPs we've been listening to all this time a very strange situation, I don't want to criticize fellow Members of Parliament, but I would like to give one warm, collegiate, friendly recommendation, not to listen to interpretations and copies of the already delivered text of the law. We have the text of the law, and I know you're thrilled with the text, but we don't have to listen to you read us the copies of the law. This law is full of phrases, definition, concepts. Eighty percent of this law deals with management contracts. In this law you have not solved the problem of non-transparency of spending funds, especially at the local level. You haven't arranged how sports will be financed. You didn't arrange for it to be published on the sites. You haven't arranged a situation where you've set a 10% minimum wage limit to pay for minor athletes, and that's huge Minister's money in Serbia, and you know it. You did not determine the situation as in Valjevo, for example, to build a balloon swimming room and sell 150 tickets in three months because the people normally don't have money with your authority, so someone remembered – let's let the young people use the pool for free. You haven't solved such unloved scenes as you did in Apatino, that people from the Union come to you and argue with each other who's more advanced in front of you. It's a picture of our sport today, not just successes that no one slows down, not just medals, not just what Serbia definitely has to be proud of, but we don't measure it here today. Today we're measuring the effect of your ministry. Money is given not transparently, without public insight, without criteria We have submitted amendments, I know that you will answer that in the part of the debate in particular we will discuss it. We are trying to carry out additional control and transparency of the spending of people's money. We want clear criteria for the award of money. We want politics kicked out of the Alliance and sports clubs. None of these things are solved by this bill, none of them. Some things you solved about insurance and that's good, you solved the detailed issues of managerial contracts and brought the situation to Serbian sport that our clubs and alliances would be d.d.o., i.e. d.o.o. Associations with limited liability and clubs will sell us burgers in their facilities in order to operate market, because you have again taken a step forward to make our sport a market category, not something that is necessary for our youth and for our future and amateur sport that is not there. Let any of you ask your children if they can go to train and not pay their parents. I can't. Where are your extracurricular activities, sometimes so popular? They're gone. All the halls have been issued to sports clubs. Everything is being paid today in Serbia. You know who has money in Serbia today, that's the problem. The sport that you have promised in many election campaigns that you will return to the citizens, that it will be free to use for our youth, if they have no terrain in their neighborhood or place where they live, they can't do anything, they can only watch on TV and of course it happens because your Ministry, realistically, and exposure to the Ministry of Finance, you are rerouting the funds that Vujović gives you and that's the sad truth. Then there are some people with no criteria, no public insights, and they share that money, and no one knows how and in what way, no one has a clue alive. Project funding has taken part, but it's basically not on any website, you can't see who's going for what's concrete, what's the amount, who's paying for it. Instead of investing money in building a free use site by citizens and youth, it is not in Serbia. Make an object, you drop water in the pool, they later - give money for the map. That's it. If you don't have the money, take a picture. That's Serbia today. Everything is bought and paid. That way we won't have a new Widow and Novak Djokovic. Remember the difficulties you've been through and the struggles you've been through, and the society has so-so worked out. Now only parents can single out, and possibly if it's a party celebration, then it can be paid. It's a shame. What was in Apatino, those unloving scenes, everyone who watched it, was horrified. And you, I'm sure you weren't comfortable with what you saw.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48074	Time. The word has been given by the People's MP Jelisaveta Veljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48075	Dear President, Honorable Minister Udovic, Mr Peruničić, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament and certainly citizens who are following this work today, I would first like to congratulate our ministry and our minister on the excellent organisation of the European Championship. What I'm saying is that this European Championship has achieved all the ratings, the number of matches, the number of teams. I was looking at some comments after our championship. I can say that on many foreign televisions Serbia has been praised, that this is a great success for Serbia, and especially for our boys' gold medals. They were again rewarded by the world's water polo facility that they were the best team in Europe. Then, our Dejan got the award as the best coach, not to mention our athletes, because I think all our water polo players are the best, although there are some prominent as individuals. Also, I want to thank you for your work so far, to say successful work, because as an athlete you're used to doing, working, giving up, training, so you've continued in this policy. I hope our ministry manages to make many things that are put in place as objections, to be settled in the future, and many things you have accepted. Not to repeat now, since I am from Vojvodina, too, not to repeat my co-operation with the Regional Secretariat, then, many of your co-operation with all the clubs, with associations, public hearings, your co-operation with the Assembly committees and co-operation with the ministries are on the level. The only thing I'm trying to say is that I'm very happy with your cooperation with the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, because one and the other actions deal with children, raising and raising children. Now that I've given up my education, I have to say that I think that our education is a little bit off-limits. Unfortunately, in the 1990s, even earlier, we had problems in this country, we had sanctions, we had bombings, we had no money. Afterwards there were problems all over the world, so one group of parents, again I say, unfortunately, we have grown up in such difficult situations, in a way they're not raised enough, and they can't give their children that education either. So I appeal to all the coaches, to all the professors of physics, to the Ministry of Education, teachers, to start preschool with child education. As far as the law goes, I wouldn't repeat all these members. We got the material on time. I've studied it, believe me, but I wouldn't do it all over again. Many of the things you've noticed as a minister, and finance, as much as you can help families at this time, I hope that this assistance will be even bigger, were really welcomed by sports workers and parents when it comes to health checks, so restrictions to 20% in local communities, 15% to devote themselves to children, and I hope that you will also respect the discussion of fellow Filipovski and that you won't separate anything for women. It's some future we're hoping for. Then, I'd like to say, I followed this law and I'm glad there are some restrictions, but let's say in Article 136, point 15, we're talking about sports courts, halls and ownership of the local community. Since we've managed to limit 20% of the same amount the local community gives, can we do something about it? Because no matter how many pets in the local community got most of the money, and they had no reason to do it, they had no successes, so do you believe, and with the terrain. I know you don't have a magic wand that you can suddenly make everything all right in sports, but I hope that you will come, as many colleagues thanked you, I hope that you will come and invite you to come to the Sremski Karlovci, to tour, to see the situation with us. I graduated from school there and had a gym ten-by-ten. In that gym today, our students from the first high school in 1971 work. Probably wasn't supposed to be back then, but that's one basement space where kids work. For the Karlovak high school, the second open area is the courtyard, which is about 300 meters from the high school. Now, the elementary school didn't have a few months of its physical hall, we got it a long time ago, sneezing it, so the leak got the floor, so the kids couldn't work for long. Now it's somewhere near the end. We don't have, for example. Not a single pool, although we're close to the new one now, everyone's sending us to the New Sad. In the hope that your Ministry will visit us and will continue this way with serious work, I thank you for all that you and Mr. Peruničić have achieved and as athletes and now in politics. Thank you. And, let me just say, we're going to vote for this bill, the Pups, the triggers.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48076	Thank you. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48077	Thank you. Mr. Minister, distinguished guests, colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, Mr. Minister, there were a lot of praises about this law, and let's hear a little bit of a different way of thinking. I will try not to repeat myself, but my colleague from the delegation club Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS and my party ZS, Marko Djurisic, said terrible things. For the sake of the citizens, I will repeat our fundamental objections, which we have submitted 29 amendments and our vote will depend on the acceptance of our amendments. I don't think you accept all the amendments, but what's important and what we think is important for this law, we insist on accepting these amendments. One of those things is a way of funding. In this bill of law, you made sports clubs have to publish their finances and their annual report through the APR. We have suggested, this is what my colleague Djurisic was talking about, that it be on the club site, that it be clearly seen who gives money, how it is spent, and who decides on spending money. At the same time, in the bill of law, you were not decided about it, and we insisted that our amendments be made clear to the entire board of directors of the club, to know who is on the board of directors, who decides and who is responsible. I think you should accept that, for the sake of transparency and honesty in the work of clubs is a very important information that does not and does not prevent, but warns and prevents. I think that's something you can accept. The second major grudge is about the steering structure. That's where we suggested that politics come out of sports clubs management, sports companies. I can see from your discussion so far that you agree with that. I hope that we will find one consensus that those who are in executive power, who have budgetary resources, those who are at the top of political parties should not be in the management structures of clubs, because this will prevent both nepotism and abuses that are evident, which are being talked about. There's probably truth where it's told. I hope that amendment is not controversial for you and your Ministry to accept. What is very important in funding, at the last meeting of the Serbian Parliament, i.e. This House was the Advertising Act. I expected your ministry to oppose one member of the law that allows it to be advertised at sports events, i.e. to sponsor sports manifestations by those who produce alcoholic beverages up to 20% strength. I think that's bad. I think it's inadmissible, because if we let a hot alcoholic drink, let's say, it's a vermouth of up to 20% strength, it advertises at sports events. I can't imagine a water polo team that advertises it or, say, a basketball team that has an ad on its back for alcoholic beverages, and we're propagating sports. I don't think that's good, because if we go with that logic -- let's advertise at sports events and light cigarettes, because they don't have a lot of nicotine and tar, as a message is bad. I know that the problem with funding sports in Serbia is that this is a serious problem, that where local self-government and state don't finance that sports branch, no matter how successful it is in the past, it fails, because without money there is no top-of-the-line sport, but if we want top-level sport to be a role model for young generations, we have to remove something like that from advertising in sport, even if we give more money from city and republican budgets. What's the subject of our amendments is the transfer agreement and the concession agreement where we asked the amendments to guarantee athletes, unless they agree with the transfer, that there is no adverse consequences. It's like one protection in that top professional sport. The important problem we see in the application of this law, which will obviously be adopted after the current discussions, is its application, which is that 14 fully new regulations should be adopted and 24 existing ones changed. What we have been able to read, and what I have received as information, of the most important regulations is the Regulation concerning the authorisation of the work of sports experts, the Regulation on the nomenclature of sports calling and occupations, the Regulation on national categorisation of sports, the Regulation on sports branches of special importance for the Republic of Serbia and the Regulation on the establishment of the health skills of athletes to perform sports activities and participation in sports competitions. I did this on purpose, although here in the text it was the first rule I put it in the last place, in order to talk a little bit about that rule and what you have mentioned so far in this debate, as well as my fellow MPs from the position and opposition, which is the development of school sport, which should have a comprehensiveity, that the more and more children are free of sport. The health aspect of sports here is very important, not the competition and development of our youth. You've put an accent on recreational and school sports and I really accept and welcome it, as your Ministry's position is good. Top sport is necessary. He's the driver of our youth to play sports, and these are role models in athletes, and that's what we're going to finance. You were here in law talking about how sport should be transparently funded, that it should not be allowed to favour certain branches more and you gave one member who says that from the budget of local self-government it takes 20% to go for one sport branch, i.e. for a sports club on the territory and local self-government. In order for the citizens to understand me, I will show it through a parallel representation of the republican budget and the Nish budget from which I come, as I am familiar with the city's budget. The Republic budget is under a thousand billion dinars. The projected budget of the city of Nisa is somewhere around 11 billion dinars. What's interesting, and I'm going to mention and share it with viewers, the current budget reserve of the republican budget is 1.2 billion dinars, and the current budget reserve of the city of Nisa is 195 million or about 2% of the budget. In order to make it clear to you, respected citizens, which I am talking about, the current budget reserve is directly in charge at the level of local self-government at the mayor or president of the municipality, and the Republic's current budget reserve is in direct authority of the Prime Minister. Since we're in the election year, these figures are probably this high because of, I guess, the upcoming campaigns. What we're going to talk about, when it comes to the budget, in the discussion so far, the popularization of recreational and school sports on the city budget, i.e. The Nisa budget shows that 3% of the city's budget, somewhere around 370 million, where 180 million were allocated for the Chair Sports Centre, Mr Minister, and 170 million for clubs. Of those 170 million, 45% falls under the "Workic" football club. What you popularize and the majority of the assembly, for recreational and school sport, is 16 million or 0.13% of the budget, which is a little bit in proportion to what is said. Of these 16 million, 10 million are scheduled for the programme, and six million are the salaries and contributions of employees in this area. At the republic's level, the youth budget and sport are 4.3 billion dinars or 0.4% of the Republic of Serbia's budget. As it has been said so far, the Alliance for School Sports, and the real name is the Alliance for School Sports and Olympic Education, is defined by 50 million dinars or, now I'm going to read to you what it looks like on the republican budget, 0.000005%. With respect to your attitude and your presentation of this law in front of this assembly and the desire to encourage school sport as a base, first, of top sports, and second as one of the essential features in the development of a society, because it is popularized, i.e.. develops sport at youth and we get healthy generations, your ministry i.e. The government has allocated only 50 million to Serbia's territory, and out of these 0.00005% for recreational sport, 2.4 million dinars are allocated on the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia. I don't think these data, Mr. Minister, is in favour of what you said, and I ask you that if there is a chance for rebalancing, if there is a rebalancing of this budget, you insist, since you are a minister in front of the SNS and is a minister in the government of Mr. Vukic, but you are the Minister of Sport of the Republic of Serbia and you have to popularize school sport, but with the preservation of professional sport. You have another possibility to remain remembered as a good minister, it is said that construction of a national stadium and a pre-medium that has been discussed in the media is about 150m euros. Minister, focus this on building a field of recreational and school sport, you will equip Serbia with terrains such as America, will be more equipped and will be remembered for it, believe me, after the term of office of this government. What I'd like to say is, in the remaining few minutes, it's about the health care that was said here, that it's well solved, that children up to 14 years have an obligation, i.e. they have paid health care. I'd just point out to my colleagues that children fall under mandatory medical care, so that's fine. And what I would draw to your attention, which is not a mistake of this government, is to say that it's not something of a mistake of this government, that it's been brought in the past, that primary health care is being thrown out, so let's say, throw out the specialization of sports medicine specialists. If someone needs to worry about sportsmen's health and sportsmen's health, that's what sports medicine specialists should do. I would recommend that you insist with your colleague, Minister Loncar, that together with the Republic Health Insurance Fund, find funds and sports medicine specialists, take care of the health of athletes, first of all in clubs, I am not talking about top-notch clubs that have their own doctors, but I am talking about clubs that don't, that children be under constant medical supervision, because there is no better view of problems in a particular sports branch than sports medicine specialists, pediatricians treat children, but strictly professionally, whether footballers need or more frequent injuries to the locomotive or code, I don't know, judo, it's best done by sports medicine specialists. What's interesting is that 30 years ago, in the city of Nis, the Institute of Sports Medicine, the buildings, began to be built. It's, if you remember, when you were at the world championship in Nis in 2010, that building that was protected by those coverts not to be seen near where the water polo game was held. It's over by 2012. There was another phase left, the current government didn't finish it until the end, there was supposed to be sports medicine, and our idea was to be a regional sports medicine centre, with anti-doping control, which is needed to exist next to Belgrade, that there's something underneath Sava and Danube, because it's gravitating over 2.5 million Serbian citizens. You should give the initiative to liven it up, yes, in cooperation with the Minister of Sports...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48078	Time, Mr. Braddick.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48079	Just one more sentence. ... with the sports minister and the head of the RFO to make the centre live in Nis, as it will benefit all athletes under Belgrade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48080	Thank you. Honored Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word has a folk MP Ivana Stojiljković.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48081	Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, today when our athletes achieve extraordinary results, it is indeed a great and responsibility and an honor to work on improving the system of sports. It is this law that is before us today that the Sport Act is such, very serious, comprehensive, a result of months of work, perhaps annual work, co-operation of everyone in the system of sports and public debates held in the ten largest cities in Serbia. The previous 2011 law could definitely be said to have been solid, but that it had to be worked on, above all, because of certain shortcomings and discrepancies. That is exactly what the first things that have been done in this law have been done, that is, to comply with domestic laws. It is 11 laws that were passed between 2011 and 2015 and with international rules and laws. So, agreeing that our athletes and our clubs could go to international competitions. A number of changes are there, and above all their goal is to introduce order and pyramidal structure into sport, to know exactly what is in whose jurisdiction and that we have only one competent national sports alliance. Also, all alliances from now on, by applying this law will be obliged to bring forward a four-year plan and a work programme under which their programme will be monitored and plans can be adopted for each year to come. Of course they will be able to plan their own sport in the future. This law also defines associations as the basic form of association, i.e. organisation in sport, and there is all the details explained through the provisions, how it is established, how it will function, and even what way it will be if the association can no longer function. This is a very nice solution, if the association can no longer function for any reason, it will be able to transfer all rights to local self-government, of course provided that local self-government has an interest in taking over those rights. Today, we talked about funding several times, whether it's transparent, whether it's enough, we all agree that in sports, of course, there's always no money, especially since we're one sports country, but this way of funding, the program financing has proved to be good since 2011, and it's been left as a method of funding, with this local self-government obligation being introduced right now to bring in a strict funding rule so that money is transparently spent, so that it knows exactly what money is going on. Also, there are restrictions that more than 20% of the designated sports budget can't get a single sports organisation. There are rules now introduced and there is no politicization, so the money will really be spent transparently and everyone will have to explain why he gave it to a particular organization. Also, one of the basic objectives of adopting this law is to abolish the gray zone, or corruption in sport. All contracts will have to be made under the law, all employees will have to be registered, taxes paid, contributions and their working hours run, which has not unfortunately been the case so far. In addition to all the many provisions, I would specifically refer to all those involved in sports. For us, it's as important as simply some foundation of our sports society. So, in addition to the significant provisions, children in sports primarily deal with children's motivations, to those areas that will stop the abuse and discrimination of the same in sport. The goal is to encourage sports omass for all and many provisions to encourage preschool and school age to sport. This is a very important item. As a basis for the formation of a sports spirit, the provisions of this law deal with the kind of intensity of physical activity must be for children in development, that corrective exercises must be respected, in order not to have a young organism which has burdened and led to deformities in development. So, by applying this law, there will be no more privileges, no more sports just for the rich. Provisions shall be introduced to minimise all kinds of inequalities. We heard that sports reviews will be free of charge for children aged 6-14, as well as that membership fees for minor athletes should not exceed 10% of the average earnings in Serbia. With this law, children will be seriously protected. That's why the manager's status in sports has been defined, which was very dangerous before, especially when managers represent minors. In the past, almost a lifetime contract was made where children were becoming white slaves somewhere. Now the contracts will be in accordance with the law, with both parents' approval. It will know exactly what the rights and obligations of both sides are and a clear amount of money will be indicated for which the manager performs the function of representing the child and will be limited to two years. That doesn't mean they won't be able to be extended, but in any case they'll be audited, they'll be adequate to control these contracts. In this sense, I look again at children in sport, so transfers in sport will be regulated where rules for international transfers will be clearly defined, but this time they are defined for national transfers that mean that children who change the environment of stay are followed further and whether they have a quality life, in addition to sports. The local sport programme must also be at least 15% child-specific. The sanctions for misbehaving are tightening. It's very interesting here that for the first time, the introduction and tightening of sanctions for parents who are sometimes reportedly putting pressure on coaches and putting pressure on judges at even lower levels and that should be sanctioned, because it's definitely not in a slow spirit. So, the aim of this law is primarily to care about the children and the health of the nation, but also to care about all those athletes who have achieved significant successes so far, how to help them, how to encourage them to continue to succeed. I will also look back at my city because the extraordinary results of pleasure athletes and continued investment in sports infrastructure have led to the town of Uzice being called the city of sport. What is important is to mention that the town of Uzice, as already mentioned, is continuously investing in sports infrastructure and we heard that some projects had started, that someone had a vision. Personally on my side of commendation for that. I don't think it really matters who's going to start a project or who's going to finish it. It's equally difficult to start and finish, because if it wasn't for that, there wouldn't be a project – let's finish what the ministry is doing. In Užica we have a reconstructed city stadium, we have built a closed swimming pool and it is the end of the building hall in Krčegov and in this sense a great thank-you to the Honorable Minister Vanji Udovic and the Ministry for recognising that this is necessary for our city and for helping the city with eight million dinars to bring this to an end. Many well - known athletes began their first steps in the pleasure fields. Both Nemanja Vidić and Olivera Jeftic, Radomir Antić and now known paralympic Milos Zaric and many others, not to mention them. There are numerous sports clubs that are famous in Serbia, and I would especially mention the Food Club "Freedom", the Unity volleyball club, the Youth Athletic Club, as well as sports clubs for people with disabilities that I have already said along with Milos Zaric achieve and achieve extraordinary results. More and more popular are some so far unusual sports, especially in Užica, such as sports climbing. Today, in Uzic, I simply have to take the opportunity to mention the eleven-year-old Matej Knezevic, who was the 11-year-old champion of Serbia in sports climbing and who won as many as 17 medals in this sport in just over a year. He is now preparing for the European championship in Austria and that boy, the big star is nothing but money, unfortunately. That's what unfortunately is our big problem. It is not big money, but for Matthew and his parents it is and can be an obstacle for him to become a star of this sport and I hope that the provisions of this law will help to popularise these less-known sports and that the ministry will also have an understanding for such sports and such stars as Matej Knezevic. I would also mention that Serbia won 30 medals last year in Olympic disciplines and was never more qualified athletes for the Olympic Games. Among them are also, I must mention, our Užicani, Olivera Jeftic and paralympic Milos Zaric as a major contribution to Serbian sports, and therefore all congratulations to our athletes on all the results they have achieved and on everything we are sure to achieve in the next competitions, because they are the greatest pride and gold of our Serbia. That's why I believe this law will improve and grease sport and, in that sense, great support in voter day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48082	Thank you. The People's Messenger Dejan Nikolic has the word, then Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48083	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Ministers, Mr Perunicic and Associates, Ministers, I don't think anyone has said it yet – the Minister's watch. That's all you got, and all the other praises you got. I think it's for your own good that we should criticise a little bit. The ministers know how to sleep with the praises themselves. I'll make some arguments. I'm going to put out a few regrets. Hand to heart, most of the law is well written. I am the 16th or 12th speaker and I will not use those general places – in a healthy body healthy spirit, sport, everyone for sport, sport for everyone. It would be a little boring, right to tell you, and I'd say that sociology of sports is much more content, much more important. I understand that, and that's why I won't use any parole. I think a lot's been said by now. I personally understand how important this health effect and the sociology of sports itself is. I went from youth to senior selections, from amateur to professional sports, and I have these eight semesters of the Faculty of Physical Culture. I understand and often the question arises – is sport more socially conditioned than how much it affects society? Whatever the debate is, we always get to the point that it's not possible for sport to be better than the society in which it exists. They can be individuals we respect, who are idols, who we respect. Associations can be better, but sport itself is the way society is, because we'll agree, it's not just "Red Star" or "Partizan", as much as we love them, as much as we root for them. They're not sports, nor are they individuals, I said earlier, to whom we call, no matter how much we root for them. Sport, ministers, and “Ozren” in Sokobanja and “Timocanin” in Književec. Sports are also those torn shoes but full of heart to reach the goal of small tickles. Sports are also the halls where you don't know if you'll get your head out alive if you reach the basket, but also new infrastructure in sport. It's all sports. It is therefore important to make good regulation. It's very important. We're on our way with this law. We expect a good debate and in particular. To me, Ministers, it is much more important that after this law, after the adoption, after eight days we see a strategy, a plan, an action to implement this law into action. I'll offer one argument. The 2011 law is incomparably better than the 2005 law, incomparably better than all those laws that have somehow affected the field of sport. Is sports so much or proportionately better than the 2011 Sport Act better than the 2005 law? It's not. He's no better. You have 13 regulations you have yet to bring. You have a sublegal regulation that you have yet to pass. He will remain, Minister, a dead letter on the paper of applause and commendation in the Assembly unless you do so as soon as possible. My suggestion is that you do it. We'll see who's gonna do it, but as a marriage to all those we've been waiting for, who we're waiting for at the airport and who we're calling here in front of the City Hall. Declare 2017 for a year of sports. You invest twice as much in national stadiums, not 200m euros for the stadium, two million dinars for small sports courts, in many small sports courts, in many halls, not three, not four, but in many halls, and thus defend the arguments you keep saying that you want to bring sport to anyone who wants to play sports. Only in this way, as an MP from Sokobanja, I insisted that in every village where conditions exist, we build a playground for small sports. We made over 20. We moved social life out of a bar to the playgrounds for small sports. It's your duty to do something like that. This is my well-intentioned proposal. Good things in the law that I can really commend, I mean contracts with managers. She was not a colleague of Stojljkovic's fault when she said she was a white slave. The slaves were our athletes with such contracts. The great thing is also well-defined transfers to sports, insurance, health checkup and records of collected funds and all kinds of records. Great thing, sports inspectors. It's good to hear, we had three sports inspectors, we now have three sports inspectors. You bring this down to the local level and it's good to hear the analysis of whether this institute really justified its expectations in 2011, which are the results of their work and why we are doing it now and dropping it to the local level. Otherwise, I absolutely support it. These are things that are really well defined. I know you've had a serious team working on this bill, which affects me to actually support this law, but we're expecting a serious debate in particular. My first complaint, Minister, concerns Article 26, in particular Article 2. It concerns the nomenclature of occupation – experts in the field of sport. What's this about? I don't think it's the minister's job. It's a professional public job. It's a wide-ranging debate. It's a matter of transparency too. Why? You're the one who put you in charge of establishing a nomenclature for professions. We are creating a framework for the future – what are our activities in sports, the calling needed for the next 10 or 15 years? You have to respect the current resources, the people, the personnel we have on the desk. Do you know how many professors of physical culture there are at the labor bureau? A lot. Do you know how many highly skilled uninvolved coaches there are? A lot. It's a poor nomenclature, and we're just going to make an even bigger noise of people, competition with each other, and we already have a large number of professional people, unemployed, unemployed. We have a bad experience with the job nomenclature at all. You are the youth minister, too, so the chairman will allow me, although it is not a depression, it is closely related to the topic I am talking about, and it concerns the national qualification framework and competence of the nomenclature of interest at all. You know we have nearly 300,000 young unemployed. Our education creates unemployment. Young people, instead of going to work, we send them to work. We educate young people for professions that don't exist on the market, Minister. You know that there are cultural technicians, incorepodents, dactylographs, thousands on the labour bureau, and we continue to educate people for these profiles, because we have a 1988 nomenclature of occupation, made for Yugoslavia, a large industrial country. I'm talking about the bad experience we have with the job nomenclature. We've been listening for 10 years to change that, and no one's ever done it before. That's why I'm saying that the sports nomenclature will be a problem if it's just your job. It has to be a professional public job, a broad debate, it has to be transparent, we all have to agree on what we need for the next 10 years. We've also submitted some amendments, and we'll talk about it. This is my first grudge. There wasn't much talk about privatisation, and that's the other one. There wasn't much to talk about, you were talking to me today. You've begun your term with a story about privatizing large clubs. In February 2014, you gave a serious interview, where everything is ready. You did your job. There's no more privatisation in the law. The last law was quite well and properly done privatisation of sports clubs. Today this law no longer deals with it. You say you'll pass a special law. I'd support that, but, when? Who's gonna bring it? Is the Department of Business? They told us about an investment process through the privatisation of the Serbian spa, and it was said in January for June for September, September for December, and since that promise it was three months ago. There's no capacity for that job, and we were all talking about privatisation. You have one general consensus on privatising major sports systems. And today we're transferring it to a new law. I'm afraid we're just leaving one important segment unsettled. The elections are coming, and then they'll keep quiet about it and it'll just go away, and the chaos is in that system. We'll agree. I don't think that should have been thrown out of this law. I'm sure the basics, the contours of privatisation, should have kept you. We can talk about it, but it wasn't possible to do it with amendments, simply, a lot of amendments had to be submitted. That's why we decided to just talk about it. At the end of last year, we received information that the state is unable to implement privatisation, that there is no power to privatise large sports systems. My question is - who has the power to stop such a process, if there is a social consensus about it? Sports development strategy for 2018. I personally submitted an amendment to the subject, and I think three years for a strategy in sports is a lot. I think it's a year and a half enough to develop a broad debate on the subject. There's a feeling we don't know what we want. A little while ago, you said we'd use the strategy to determine a lot of things, but that's three years from now. We need to get a strategy for sports development faster. The action after the adoption of this law is much more important than the laws and all these applauses you've received today. You've personally earned them in your career, I've applauded you and Mr. Perunicic many times, but let's talk cold heads today and rationally about this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48084	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48085	I would like to thank the President. Dear ministers with associates, as already announced and announced by our authorised representative, representative of the SPS parliamentary group, we will undoubtedly support this law and vote for it in the voting day. What is simply neglected in the discussions today and not mentioned, along with all the good and perhaps some possible issues of the law itself, where some norms could possibly be discussed and repaired, I will touch on something that today was not too much of a topic of discussion, which is media in sport. Namely, without the presence of sports in the media, there is no adequate popularity of sports, there is no cornerstone, no stimulant for athletes, no blowing wind in the back where this stimulant is necessary, where it is seen that the state invests in sport and where it is seen that athletes, and acknowledge and well-known athletes, deserve attention to their extremely valuable results. When we're in that field, then we need, distinguished ministers, to draw attention to what we have already said – what is the cornerstone of all sports activities? Just a school sport, just a school sport that needs to have an even bigger affirmation than it's ever been. How's he gonna get an affirmation unless he's in the media? I have to remind you that none other than SOS channels, no single channel, TV channel doesn't monitor school sports. Only SOS channel through a software scheme that connects to the league of future champions, "The Troika Against Drugs, not in Smoke, but in Team", is propagating just school sport. You, respected ministers, as a boy through the SOS channel were escorted, later became famous and recognized by the athlete. I'm sure it's also Mr. Perunicic and everyone else famous and recognized athletes, but without the presence of media in sports and sports in the media there is no affirmation of athletes. Through the SOS channel that has effectively implemented these activities over 100,000 athletes, participants in various software schemes and sports present in these schemes. What is important to point out is the fact that unfortunately, I say unfortunately, sponsors of various sports will pre-sponsor some sports channels that are otherwise sponsored by other foreign homes, rather than what will be present with us, which, unfortunately, is not good and what should be worked on. That's why I support you in everything we've said today, honest and unreserved. It is great that this law implements what, I repeat for the third time, represents a cornerstone – school sport. This is why we not only support you, but we believe that you will endure this concept, which is and how significant it is. Of course I will give myself freedom, as some other MPs here are, affirming their sport. I come from karate sports, where I have been present for 36 years and on behalf of the Karate Federation of Serbia I must thank you, both you and Mr. Peruničić, which is the Karate Federation of Serbia by the Ministry of Sports recognized as the only representative part of a sports branch, which is karate. All other parallel alliances were under circumstances, and especially thanks to the provisions of this law, they had to be subjected to one roof branch, which is the Karate Federation. Why? Because karate sport is trying, I hope it works out, that one day, I am confident, with your support and with your help, it becomes an Olympic sport, because it deserves it. He deserves a lot of things – by the number of competitors, by mass, by the number of karate clubs registered in the Sports Union and the Ministry of Sports and especially by the successes of karate, in addition to the uncontested greatest sports results this year, not only in this year, but also in a number of years back, achieved and achieved by Novak Djokovic, water poloists, volleyball players, etc. It should not be forgotten that even in this branch of sport, which is media marginal, are achieved and how good results are achieved. It should not be forgotten that even in this branch of sport that is media marginal are achieved and how good results are achieved. I come from the town of Užica, which is mentioned several times today by my colleagues Jovan Markovic and Ivana Stojiljković. Everything that's well said is. I have to ask, on behalf of young athletes from the town of Užica, on behalf of the sport I mentioned, whose member, in the name of all sports, that what you have set as a concept and, at the same time, as a goal, to make sport free, to really shorten the time period until that goal is achieved and that, indeed, in the right sense of the word sport becomes free. Please bear in mind and one fact that represents a great burden, which is that sports clubs, especially, signposts, small sports clubs from, under the circumstances, small sports pay large tenants in halls with which they have primary, secondary schools, colleges, etc. These are for clubs whose budgets are extremely limited by large financial resources. The school sport was previously recognized well through the Ministry of Sports and in the previous meeting, which is good and now because the co-operation of the Ministry of Education with your ministry is extremely good and in this direction the school sport continues, but will be rounded up throughout the moment when the financial structure is created that will help these clubs, especially small ones, that neither parents nor children feel the financial burden, but that they develop in the sports spirit, that they develop as a person and mentally, become athletes and real people. That's the goal. There are no obstacles to that goal, and the SPS will always raise that goal to the pedestal. I mentioned Užice because this is in Užica present, because, just for the sake of great financial burdens and expenses, small clubs, small sports, they can't find their place to find it, to affirm themselves in the best possible way. Finally, what the others have told you as quality, and I will support it, is the introduction of special surveillance or control mechanisms through inspectorates, or sports inspectors at the level of local self-government. I hope that it will come to life as soon as possible, for the simple reason that I am afraid that this employment restriction regulation will not disturb us a little bit in setting up a person who will have to start doing their job as soon as possible, which is to oversee sports collectives and the application of this law. Because of all this, you have our support and we want you to continue such a positive trend in your work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48086	Thank you. The word is Dragan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48087	Madam President of Parliament, honourable ministers, of course, with associates, Mr. State Secretary Peruničić, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Republic of Serbia, in 2013, we chose for the first time as Minister of Sport and Youth Mr. Vanju Udovic. I was surprised at the time that someone who was at that point was the world's best water polo player to break up his career and go to the minister's place where he would feel different winds, where there would be blows from all sides and where there were many blows that weren't sports. However, to my great surprise, he did very well. He is someone who has managed to give us a law on sports that has long been announced, which is not an amendment to the former 2011 Sport Act, but a whole new law, by fully copying and taking what was good and what proved in practice as good from the old law, and introducing a lot of newspapers that bring us now to have a completely new situation in sport. I'm very pleased that you've had ten public discussions, ten cities you've visited. We have heard from our authorised representatives, particularly the authorised representatives of the SNS, that these discussions lasted for more than six, seven hours, that you have reasonedly answered all the questions asked, gave explanations. That is why today we have a completely peaceful situation in this House. No poison arrows, no bad comments. The law is acceptable, I would say, by consensus, to all MP groups. I expect that, when we discuss in particular the amendments, you will also have the understanding of certain objections that have been made and are given with good intentions, that the law would be even better, that in the day of voting all the parliamentary groups for the first time in this session give their vote for one law, which is the law on sport. Every city in Serbia has Đokovici potential, has potential Udovici, has potential Peruničić brothers, there are people who have brought us many joys in the most difficult moments for Serbia, who have been obsessing about gold, which are seen by Serbian boys and girls and usually in these countries under bombs, which are subject to sanctions by extraordinary talents. We're obviously genetically predetermined to be champions in many sports, we thought it was collective, and then it turns out that in individual sports we can have a champion of the world, or a man who's first on the tennis list for many years. When I was a kid, the punishment was when they called you from home to get into the house, to stop playing football, to play basketball, and now the biggest punishment is to separate the child from the computer and tell him to take the ball to go play with that ball. Unfortunately, it is a reality in Serbia. For some, it's funny, but I think it's the biggest problem right now, and I think this sport law has to pay particular attention to the school's youth, especially boys and girls who are talented for all kinds of sports, to recognize them, to be animated, to be helped by the state on their own side in any case, both financially and materially, and also through television shows that will be affirmative. I think both this discussion in this House and the proposal made by the Minister of Sports and Youth Vanja Udovici represents an EPP for every boy and girl watching this broadcast. What I wanted to say to you in particular, is that this year there are two Olympics, one will be in Brazil, the other will be the School Olympics in Vranj. Given that I am a national MP from Vranj, I want to appeal to the Ministry of Sports and Youth to take part because 6,500 boys and girls from all over Serbia will be there. It will be a competition, i.e. the Olympics of secondary and primary schools. The city of Vranje, as a local self-government, of course, like everything, is missing, both in material and in financial means, so my appeal, as the MP and representative of all these citizens of Vranje, is to make contact to help you on your part. I know you're willing to do it. I am at your disposal to make a logistics contact and that, if everything works out, you, as Minister of Sports, come and open that Olympics. She'll be from May 9th to May 17th. Knowing you, I expect you to call me, and I know you'll do a lot to get her through in the best possible order. As for hooligans on sports grounds, that's all I'm saying is, try with Minister Selakovic in coordination to make a stricter criminal policy for all the hooligans who embarrass our country. Sentences are scheduled from six months to 12 years, but I'm afraid there are many so-called sentences. The excessive circumstances, so these people get back to the field real quick, they're doing a new excess again, and it's costing us a lot. So, I would ask you in that sense to try with Mr. Justice Minister to make one pressure, or one attempt to make a criminal policy against hooligans in sports, sports courts and sports events more difficult, because I think it will send a message to anyone who thinks they're breaking up and doing some damage. One more thing, in the end, I wanted to tell you, I know you didn't include this law of privatisation in sports. Someone mentioned that the state has no courage, no desire, no ability to calculate and privatize in sport. You didn't do it, and I think it's tactically very good, but you'll do it when you're elected after the next election, you'll give that Privatisation Act back to the sport, and you'll bring it to one area that's certainly escaped both the police and the D.A.'s office and the judiciary. What's going on out there is something that may be the scariest thing that's happening in society right now, and we've been propagating a fight against corruption, against crime, and there's one thing I'm afraid of the most. The parliamentary group in the voting day will support your law and we will vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48088	Thank you. The word is made by MP Jovan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48089	Dear Ministers, respected co-workers of the minister, respected fellow MPs, I will use these few minutes at the disposal of the DS Parliament Club, yes, and the minister and all of you respected colleagues and introduce the problem of perhaps the amendment and several key messages that we wanted to convey to you and the public of Serbia in this debate. I will start with this dilemma that I have left after the thought and sentence of the esteemed Minister Udovic, when he said in one part of the debate and said – we discussed the first objective of involving citizens who want to play sports and how to increase that percentage in the next period with these famous 10% citizens who once a week deal with physical activities. You said at one point, if someone does not want to engage in sports, then how do we force him to do it, and on the other hand, we have research that says that the percentage of EU citizens who are once a week engaged in physical activities is more than 40% and we have devastating data on the health status of Serbian citizens and on the other hand we have very encouraging data, i.e. parallel data that is in support of the physical activity of health related to EU citizens. Thinking about this sentence, I'm quite certain that you are aware of this problem that we have, above all about funding, I was talking about it in the first part of the address, where we're going to re-focus huge money on top-of-the-line sport, national border alliances, to top-of-the-line clubs, etc. And we're going to have this second risk around the coverage that's always been our problem. However, I am absolutely sure that if we had made a clear goal, if we had made a clear plan, if we had respected what we said in public debates about the potential we have in the profession, then we would have come to the conclusion that it is not a fundamental problem of infrastructure, that we have potentials in both human and human, and in existing infrastructure, of course we should always invest, but that the question of system and question of courage, and the question of how to focus all these potentials in one direction in the next period. Through examples and the engagement of professional people who do not have a job today, through examples of hiring them in the field of school sport, in the field of recreational sport we will come to the conclusion that the potentials there can indeed be more developed with very small means, but must be given help and support to those people who have ideas and who have knowledge, there is also a need for parents and children, and this must be a common pollen. The experience I had right in the town of Uzic where we invested huge money in infrastructure with the desire to support top-notch sports, but also mass sports, as a reaction and reflection of what is happening at that top level is very important. I think that these projects and budget financing and project financing in the coming period can be drawn up as some example of positive practices based on which to make some plans and make some decisions. What I'm trying to tell you is that once again, pay attention to our amendments. Amendments that support the need to separate those sports and those areas where people want to pay money for their children in the form of contracts or membership fees should separate from that idea or our idea or our intention to make the sport free. Thinking about how to come to a solution, so you have a desire to have a massive sport, especially in a child's age to be free, thinking about how to come to those solutions, we come to the conclusion that it really has to be a priority. Given, let's say right now, at the level of younger school age, the realization of physical education classes is about 30% compared to what is a propagated plan and program. First of all, there are no conditions for the realization of teaching, because there are no spaces or personnel or material in the form of devices or props. So we come to the fact that it is simply necessary at the very first moment that the plans and programmes that already exist, which are the obligations of schools, education, states and so on, to put into office in a way that invests there. If we further analyze, it is impossible to leave it to individuals whether they are school directors or presidents of sports alliances, mayors of some cities and municipalities that they decide whether, let's say, a pool, in this case the Užijski pool in which three million euros are invested, will be available to children of the city for free. So you need to hire experts and say this will be free, because children who cannot pay, or parents who cannot pay their children, must be free of charge.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48090	Thank you. You've wasted your time. The word has a folk MP, Ninoslav Giric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48091	Thank you. President-in-Office, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, before us is a proposal of the Law of Sports which I must indeed commend from all strength, we have seen the mood of other MPs from the opposition parties. So, a bill that has really come at the right moment, and it is obvious that it will be voted by all the MPs in this House. The previous Sport Act was passed in 2011 by the fact that, in the meantime, certain provisions of the law have ceased to apply due to the adoption of new laws, but that a number of provisions of the applicable Sport Act also contain this bill, especially those items that have been confirmed and proved good in practice. Of course, there have been problems that have been met by state authorities and sports organisations in the past period that the bill itself has come as an inevitable fact, given the knowledge that both international sports alliances and international standards have developed dynamically over the past period. The proposal for a law on sport contains 184 members and, if carefully analysed, it will be seen that it actually covers all participants in sports and gives concrete definitions and legal frameworks of behaviour in sport. As regards termologies and expressions from sports activities, sports activities, sports activities, sports recreation, top sports, children's sports, sports organisations and athletes, or amateur athletes, professional athletes, athletes, top athletes, prospective athletes, talented athletes, categorised athletes, then sports organisations, professional sports clubs, sports teams, national sports associations, competent national border sports associations, competent international sports associations, as well as sports events taking place in this country, sports competitions, national sports competition, amateur sports competition, professional sports competition, professional sports leagues, sports events organizers, sports rules, professional sports supervisors. These are approximately the terms used in this law, all of which are referred to in Article 3 of this Law and the obligations laid down in this law, apply to all sports organisations established in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and to any exercise or exercise of sporting activities and activities in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Members of the Bill's proposal from 10 to 18 deal with the rights and obligations of all categories of athletes, as well as sports contracts and transfer contracts, grant contracts, international transfers, national transfers that have been spoken of in today's debate, and I will not repeat that. Articles 90,19 and 23 include considering and defining the health skills of sportsmen as well as sports experts. It is specified that a sportsman and sports expert can participate in sports competitions, i.e. sports competition, if a general medical ability to perform sports activities has been established within six months of holding the sport competition. For certain sports branches, special health skills are determined, at least six months before the competition, and may be in a shorter period of time depending on the rules adopted by the Minister of Health and the Minister of Sports, in accordance with the law. This is where I would point out and point out as regards the deadlines for general and special health checks, they are determined by the agreed health minister and the minister of sports. Therefore, the obligation to determine health skills for athletes and sports experts is carried out by the competent medical service or the Institute of Sports and Sports Medicine. The annual report of the competent health institution shall be submitted to the Ministry of Health, and records shall be kept on the health skills of athletes and sports experts from the day of the first registration in the sports organisation. Each sports organisation is obliged to ensure its top athletes, as discussed today, also because of possible events in sports. The minimum amount of insurance for the death of a sportsman or a sports expert is 10,000 euros in dinar equivalent, and for the permanent loss of overall labour capacity of 20,000 euros in dinar equivalent. As for the temporary prevention of sports activities, 5,000 euros in dinar equivalent. Here I would point out Article 22, which says it is forbidden to expose a sportsman to sports activities that could endanger or worsen his health. Doping athletes are banned under the law. It is forbidden to expose children to sports activities and physical exercises that can endanger or worsen their health or have a negative impact on psychomotor development and education. Articles 25 to 32 discuss sports experts who perform professional work in sports, i.e. planning and carrying out sports activities of children and youth, recreation, training, sports education, leading athletes in competitions, controlling psychophysical skills and the like. Of course, professional work in sport can be performed by sports experts who meet the conditions laid down by the unforeseeable sports rules of the competent sports alliance or international sports alliance. The Minister prescribes a plan and programme of professional training, the very process of issuing, perfecting and withdrawing licences for the work of sports experts and organisations. And, what's important, what's repeatedly pointed out here, is that the supervision of the professional work is performed by the Institute of Sports and Medicine of the Sports of the Republic of Serbia. From Articles 33 to 106 are discussed sports organisations, sports associations, way of establishment, mode of operation and responsibility, way of association, sports associations, coach associations, judges' associations and other organisations. This is where dissonant tones were heard when football is at stake in this country, however, problems in the Football Union and football have been going on for years, so that all these problems have been inherited, not created during this government and Minister Vanja Udovic's ministry. Article 107 defines the Republic or functioning of the Republic Institute for Sports and Sport Medicine. The Republic Institute for Sport and Medical Sports, as an institution, which performs its work for the development of professional work and needs in the field of sport, what the Institute is dealing with are periodic testing, i.e. monitoring anthropological parameters and characteristics of children and young people and adults, control of prospective and top-level athletes, expert advice to athletes and sports experts. Then, organisation and realization of continuous training and final preparation of prospective and top-quality athletes, keeping national records in the field of sports, professional training in the training of sports experts and experts in the field of sports. Afterwards, the exercise of professional work in the field of sport, evaluation of the health situation in the field of sport, improvement of health conditions and functional capabilities of prospective and top-level athletes, organisational and professional assistance to organisations that implement international sports competition programmes, counselling in planning construction and reconstruction of sports facilities in public property. Then, it has propaganda, publishing, scientific, research activities in the field of sports and medicine sports. I would now single out a member of this law's proposal, Article 123, which speaks of national recognitions, awards and scholarships. As a longtime top athlete professional in handball sport in the 1980s and conqueror of a double cup of Yugoslavia in that sport, I know how hard it is to get to the top results. Of course, it was all in the years when the handball was Olympic, world and European champion, as an approximately water polo team, with this Olympic medal, we look forward to it, to come up with top results, it really takes with a lot of denials, a lot of effort, so that athletes, citizens of the Republic of Serbia who, as representatives of the Republic of Serbia, win some of the medals at the Olympic Games, Paralympic Games, chess Olympics, world and European championships, if they were either world record holders or become winners of Davis or Fed cups of the International tennis Federation, are awarded a national sport recognition in the form of a lifelong monthly income after 40 years of life. Sports and trainers, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who as members of the Republika Srpska team at the Olympic, Paralympic Games, chess Olympics, win one of the medals, win Davis or Fed Cup, are awarded a cash prize. Also, a sports organisation in the territory of the Republic of Serbia that wins the European club championship of the highest level of competition, according to the criteria of the competent International Sports Union in first-class sports, according to national categorisation, is granted monetary compensation. Here we have one proposal that the Ministry may eventually see the award of Balkan champions in certain sports. This is just a suggestion and suggestions from some of the sports that are competing at that level and winning trophies at that level. As for members of 139 and categorisation in the field of sports, it includes national categorisation of sports, then national categorisation of national financial alliances, national categorisation of athletes, national categorisation of sports experts, national categorisation of sports facilities, categorization of this member of the bill, preparation of a expert commission trained by the sports minister. The Commission shall be composed of representatives of the Olympic Committee, the Sports Alliance, the Republic Institute and the Ministry. The Commission for National Department of Sports Objects is represented by representatives of the Ministry and the Republic Institute. There is also something to be said about Article 168 concerning records, or organised and systematic monitoring of the situation. I think that's very important when it comes to sportsmen's records, that it could be planned to develop sports in the long term in Serbia. What exactly is recorded? Categories and other athletes competitors, sports entrepreneurs, sports organisations, sports experts and sports experts, a programme of projects that generates general interest in sports, sports facilities, major international sports events in the Republic of Serbia, the results of athletes and national sports teams in the Republic of Serbia and major international sports competitions, physical sports injuries and the treatment of top athletes and athletes of national sports teams. The supervision of the implementation of this law is very clear, and several times it has been said here, it will be carried out through republican sports inspectors. As for the criminal provisions of this law, I think they're quite appropriate. I will repeat once again, the SNS parliamentary group, and it is obvious that other MP groups in the voting day will vote for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48092	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Grozdan Banac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48093	Dear President, I would like to give a general assessment that the new Law on Sports, the rights and obligations of different entities in the system of sports, start from individuals, through sports clubs and alliances to local self-government, province and state bodies, is a very good solution for us, with our co-workers, colleagues, colleagues and fellow citizens, at the very beginning. I think that this has largely worked out, given the complexity and diversity of players in the field of sport, as well as the increasingly dynamic development of disputed relations. It is also good that the proposed solutions are in line with international legal practice, which is taking another step towards harmonising our legal system with the EU legal system. First, it is worth pointing out the changes made at the very beginning of the law. In Article 3 of which I think the most important is the one precisely defining the criteria which clubs, competitions are considered professional, which are amateur. It is also foreseen that under the amateur competition the competition in which up to 20% of professional athletes can take place, that there must be at least 75% of professional athletes in the professional club and that there must be at least 50% of registered athletes, seniors, professionals in the professional club. These provisions are very important in order to make a precise distinction between these competitions and clubs, because the law provides for them quite a difference in the rules of work. In this regard, I think it is a good thing that in the part of the bill that treats the rights and obligations of individual athletes now gives greater attention to minors who want to be professionally engaged in sports, so from now on, in order to conclude such contracts, they will seek written consent from both parents, which I find very significant, because we are witnessing that the age limits of professional athletes are getting lower, that contracts in the most popular sports are getting higher, which together creates an environment where these young people are not often best and not in their interest, and therefore it is necessary that these cases be further regulated. In this regard, it is also important to make a provision in Article 12 which provides that all contracts must be in writing with certified signatures, as well as in Article 18 where the transfer contracts and the entry of players that have been mentioned only in principle in the current law have been significantly more stringent. Article 94 now defines the management business of intermediating sportsmen from one sport society to another. Only a person and organisation who fulfils the conditions laid down by the national border sports union and who are authorised to carry out that activity are expected to be able to deal with these affairs. Also, important elements of the mediation contract have been defined, as well as that it can be concluded on a maximum period of two years. The bill also brings newspapers to the field of sports organisation. In Article 33, stricter restrictions have been imposed on persons who cannot be members of a sports organisation administration, founders, action owners and employees of another sports organisation competing in the same range of competitions, convicted of criminal acts, owners and members of sports betting offices, sports managers, as well as persons who cannot be members of the management of companies and associations in accordance with a law that prescribes conflict of interest in the performance of public duties, which should certainly be welcomed. In Article 71, provisions on a sports business established by a sports association for profit acquisition are now much more stringent and it is envisaged that the sports association can be transformed into a company with limited liability and transfer of the right of founders to a local self-government unit whose territory is established. Article 72 provides for the possibility that a sports association may be directly engaged in economic activities if it is provided for in the Statute and if that activity is of a minor scope. I think these provisions are good because they follow the world's trends. Today, in modern high-end sports, there is an enormous amount of money going around every day. Sport has become a lucrative and profitable business branch, but such a position involves also accepting certain internal organisation rules, which is not the case with us right now. With this in mind, the transitional provisions of the law predict that privatisation in sport will be regulated by a special law, and after privatisation, all professional clubs will have to be organised as business sports companies. Another important segment of this law is dedicated to school and children's sports. It should not be stressed that dealing with physical activities and sports in this period is of great importance for proper development and psychophysical personality formation. I think that in this part of the law, the most important provisions of Article 118, where it is assumed that at least 15% of the costs of each alliance and club must be spent on activities related to the sport of children and provisions in Article 40, paragraph 7, which stipulates that the amount of membership fees for minors cannot be more than one tenth of the average earnings, because sport must not be a privilege only of the rich. In the end, I believe that these, as well as the other newspaper in the bill, will contribute to the overall development of sports and sports activities and after all these public debates that you have held, with a lot of attention and professionally, which I am very pleased to welcome you, to wish you every happiness and to tell you that PUPS will vote for these legal regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48094	Thank you. You've wasted the time of the parliamentary group, so Momo Colakovic doesn't have time to speak. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48095	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, Mr. Minister, dear fellow ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think today we are talking about a bill of law and a subject that is very pleasant, I would say, and I would say that with a lot of excitement and in a good atmosphere we are talking about a proposal for a law on sport, a team before we really have good results in this area. I think we'll agree to the finding, which is also said in Article 2. The bill that sport is of particular importance to the Republic of Serbia. Sport is a kind of phenomenon that contributes to the development of society, enriches culture, economy, is an integral part of our identity that makes us respectable in relations with others, which is very important. Sport contributes to the creation of certainly true values, and above all to the spread of ethical principles, discipline, self-critism, tolerance, tenacity, honesty. Finally, it contributes to the proper psychophysical development of children and young people, contributing to improving health. It can be said that the Republic of Serbia is a significant sports force in top sports. Although we are a small country, we have very significant results in world and European competitions. These results incredibly contribute to social cohesion, and they raise the spirit, morals and motivation of people across Serbia in overcoming, persevering with daily problems. People, especially young people, are identified with athletes and with their results. In the minds of our people, citizens and young people, on the occasion of great victories on sports grounds, there is an incredible projection of the true values, and this should certainly be one model and mechanism in further training and raising the spirit of our people, especially young people in competitions at all levels. I would say that the sport and the results that are being obtained in our country leave the eternal trail for future time, and that trail should certainly be followed. Such a trail has already been trampled by our well-known athletes and still trampled by them and still do, such as Novak Djokovic, such as our basketball players, our water poloists, handball players and many other individuals who need to serve for example primarily the young generation, but what our MP Nedjo Jovanovic was talking about, and the media should follow all these results, and less favour destructive programs such as the reality program, etc. Such a trail is left for future time, and it can last for hundreds of years and centuries. I'll just say one example. It is about the Olympic, Dragutin Tomasevic, who wore the Serbian royal flag in 1912 at the Stockholm Olympics, and the marathon has practically contributed to Serbia becoming an Olympic country for the first time, to join the family of Olympic countries. That's why we organized a memorial tournament in Petrovac at Mlava every year where they have participated since preschool age, through school generations, to seniors, a memorial tournament in the marathon and in shorter, so to speak, the paths. Then his monument was erected in the city center, and the sports hall in Petrovac on Mlava bears his name. In this way we really need to promote sport and make it part of everyday life. Indeed, considering that our nation, our people, our citizens, our animal has a really great potential in this, in sport, that sport should be part of a culture that needs to be developed, and that's where we have something to deal with and be sure that we in the parliamentary group will always support your insistence and that you are certainly going in a good direction, Mr. Minister. The Socialist Party of Serbia will vote for the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48096	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Srdjan Dragojevic, and let the MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48097	The President-in-Office, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues, is very pleased to read a good law, a law that puts sport into action of special importance for the Republic of Serbia. We are a sports nation and sport is a very important aspect of our national being and our Serbian people. What is kind of a worrying thing is that only 10% of people are involved in sports, and even over 50% of people have never engaged in sports. What's precious to this law is the fact that he insists on school sports, children's sports, amateurism. It's something that's necessary, which is very valuable. I will mention that this year I hold a world championship in volleyball for high schools in Pancheva, Banatski Novi Sela and Belgrade. Mr. Perunicic is the patron of that. It's a very nice event that tells you that school amateur sport is actually the essence of sports. What I find very, very satisfying in this law, I must say, is the fact that there are no words in it about privatising sports clubs. I personally think there are so many shops in professional football, so many things, starting with match-fixing, hooliganism, the treatment of players as white slaves. So much is the question of whether professional football can be called sports. It is very good that there is no such thing in this law, that some other laws will do so. I must point out that in 2011, when it came to the previous sport law, the SPS parliamentary group insisted on an amendment that sports stadiums should not be privatised, that sports stadiums belonging to Serbian citizens could not change their purpose, that they could not become shopping centres. I hope that the Serbian government will insist that major sports stadiums remain temples of sport. What is also significant, my fellow MPs insisted is the fact that there is very little sport in the media, the real sport, the amateur sport, the school sport, and that's too bad. I once suggested to a producer of these reality programs that it would be very good to make a reality program about a young sports team being prepared, so they competed and such ideas did not come to an understanding. It's easier for them to show things that are below some civilization level, but in any case, sport must have much, much more representation in the media. What's very valuable to me as a parent is that sport should be in some segments and free of charge. I, as a parent, father of five, went through all the sports with them. We're the only ones who haven't trained sword and bottle. We covered everything else, and I have to say that sports is a terribly expensive activity. When you have more than one child, it's something that under these circumstances, these times, you need to make it easier for families and children, to have as many as they are involved in sports as possible, to be available. Anyway, not to be too long, my colleagues said most things, positive, good about this quality law. I'll just say that the parliamentary group in voting day will support this good law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48098	Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic and get Milan Petrovic ready.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48099	Thank you, President. Dear Ministers Udovic and his fellow Members and fellow MPs, in the era of technological boom, when a growing number of people, and especially children spend time with a computer, the affirmation of sports and sports activities, is more than necessary and necessary. It was a time when children played in courtyards and parks, and when collective sport was a dominant base of youth association. Inexorable statistics are that we are among the oldest nations in Europe and the world, but we are also a country with a high percentage of non-infectious diseases. It may sound paradoxical what I'm about to say, but it really is. We are champions in water polo, we are at the top of Europe and the world in many sports. We have a world tennis champion, but on the other hand we have a large number of cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases, diabetes and increased blood pressure, obesity, spinal deformities and irregular behaviour in children and teenagers, and about the consumption of cigarettes and alcohol that I don't even talk about. More and more sports activities are being replaced by some other activities starting with the most harmless children's game, which instead of believing in parks and running around football courts, comes down to playing video games and uninterrupted hangings on social networks. To talk about the affirmation of sports and about the desire to develop it in all social structures and among all social groups is necessary for me, because the importance of sports and sports activities we all know and understand is very important for both the physical and mental health of the nation. Although this law is not the first in this area, we have seen the need to change the same where it has proved to be lacking and inconclusive in practice, and the problems in sport are numerous and not only affecting the health of the nation, but they are opening up a whole spectrum of problems that reflect on different spheres of society, starting with most sports clubs and associations being over-indebted and unable to meet the basic financial obligations, so that sports clubs are disintegrated by those who make violence against each other both in the country and abroad. The sociology of the conflict of informal groups in society shows us that such groups of young people who love the sports emblem and hate everyone else can also be a big problem for much more orderly countries than Serbia. On the other hand, the nobility of sports and the achievement of sports results that cause admiration and nations and the world is sometimes pushed aside because of the commercialisation of the sports institutions themselves, so often headlines in the newspaper that a player has been bought for so much and so much money or that the transfer of players with financial effect has been achieved so far unrecorded in the world. It is important that, by changing in key segments, we bring the Sport Act closer to the EU's standards on the one hand, and on the other hand, we prevent any irregularities and possible abuses in this area. I want to say that the citizens would know that this is the result of the work of our government and the rest of the ministry which has very actively accepted and discussed all the proposals, suggestions and remarks to make the law as good as possible. As we have heard, the law has passed a public debate and many proposals from these public debates have become components of this law. Finally, I would also like to add this, the adoption of this law is extremely important for improving sports in the Republic of Serbia, which would allow our country's citizens to deal with sports from the youngest to those in recent years, from recreationals and amateurs to the top athletes we have and who we are proud of. Sports celebrated Serbia in the world, the Serbian anthem was heard in all the world's meridians. The results our athletes achieve are often in shooting status, both personal and national and world records. In order for our sports and athletes to be even better and that we have as many as possible and that our nation is healthier, in the voting day we and my MP group of SNS will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48100	The word is made by MP Milan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48101	The respected chairman, respected ministers and representatives of the government, respected colleagues and colleagues, the SNP supports the idea of why it will organise sporting activity. We also believe that there is a need to do as much as possible in the field of combating corruption in sport, to separate hooligans from fans and to make sport more accessible to citizens and their children, because sport is one way to separate them from the Internet and games. I expected a better solution in this proposal for a sport law on these issues, because in those examples we did not scratch the surface. If you are able to deal with these problems more seriously, the SNP is available to you. I also felt that this proposal should be more concerned with athletes themselves. Although we ideally support this bill, we have seen several members who would change, all in order to improve working conditions and achieve better sports results. The provision that both parents must give consent to conclude a contract to a person who does not have full business capacity is unnecessary, since the person already has a certain legal representative, i.e. parents or associates. How are we going to apply this if the athlete doesn't have both parents or if one of them has passed away or fatherhood has not been established or is being punished or is working abroad? It is also not necessary to verify this type of contract in accordance with the law because it would mean that they are certified by a public register or by a court of law, because it would extend the procedure and generate unnecessary costs. The question is also asked – how and who determines the amount of the transfer fee? Is the fee for development when switching athletes to another sports organisation not accounted for, or does it not count if the athlete has the status of professional athlete or concludes a professional contract? In that case, abuse is possible, and all in order to avoid paying this fee. It is unfounded that sports organisations have no right to compensation if a contract with a sportsman is broken by the guilt of a sports organisation. There may be situations in which a sports organisation has invested a lot over time, thus contributing to the development of the athlete, in a later period west, regardless of the reasons in financial problems that make it impossible for them to meet contractual obligations, in which case it would lose the right to a specified fee, while another sports organisation would receive a well-formed and obviously promising athlete without any compensation. During the later departure of the athlete to the third sports organisation, the second one would charge the transfer fee and thus profit, while the first one would remain denied, although it was she who formed the athlete. This proposal requires the obligation to provide only top athletes and top sports experts, which we consider incorrect. According to us, this obligation should be prescribed for all athletes and all sports experts, sports organisations, with the sum of the insurance itself set at a special amount for top athletes and sports experts. It is illogical for the coaches of the Republic of Serbia to be awarded only a cash prize in those competitions, where the team whose coaches won one of the certain medals is not granted a national sport recognition. The success of a team, especially in collective sports, which I'm sure you know very well, depends largely on coaches, or selectors, so it's illogical that coaches get only one-time cash assistance and athletes get a national sport recognition. Also in Article 18, which speaks of the transition of minor athletes to another sports organisation, and for reasons not related to the practice of sports activities, but because of the change of residence, we believe that it is subject to manipulation. It is possible that the parents of a minor athlete when they estimate that their child would, for example, be able to make progress in higher rank or better financial conditions by making a change of place of residence for their child to sign over to another sports organisation. This could lead to new Belgradeisation, new sadisation or what we would already call it, but less environments would be left without athletes. The Serbian Progressive Party will express its position after the amendment debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48102	Nikola Jolovic, prepare Nevenka Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48103	Dear Presidents, ministers with associates, an analysis of the implementation of the 2011 Sport Act over the past four years has shown that this law basically met the expectations that existed in its adoption, but that further improvement of the state of sports of the Republic of Serbia needs to be brought forward and a new law on sport. According to data from population health research conducted at the Institute of Public Health of Serbia, Batut from 2013, fitness, sports or recreation at least three times a week dealt with 8.8% of Serbia's population, while each nine Serbian residents spent at least 90 minutes a week in such activities. The habit of sports and recreation is more represented in men than in women, while intensive physical activities aimed at strengthening muscles at least three times a week in 2013 were only 4.8% of the population of the Republic of Serbia. So 82.3% of children said that free time was at least once to two, three times a week engaged in physical activities, and all of this should be added that in Serbia, more than half the population was over-fed in 2013. Compared to European countries, according to the results of a survey conducted on the territory of the Member States compared to research conducted on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, it can be concluded that 40% of EU citizens declare that they are engaged in sports at least once a week, while sports in the Republic of Serbia only deals with about 10% of the population once a week. All of this is about the need to urgently pass a new sport law that would allow for a maximum increase in the number of people involved in sports and to support further development of domestic top sport. In further exposure, I will be based on burning problems in the development of domestic top sport, which is why this law is necessary. In practice, the appearance of secret contracts between athletes and sports organisations is noticeable, i.e. it is largely avoided to register all contracts between athletes and sports organisations with the relevant national border sports alliance. In order to prevent the current practice of the existence of secret contracts between athletes and sports organisations, the law stipulates that the contract and all amendments to the contract, including the contractual termination of the contract between athletes and sports organisations, is to be concluded in writing and certified in accordance with the law. Such a legal solution does not exclude the practice of national sports alliances that require the agreement between athletes and sports organisations and register with the alliance. It is also an obligation that all relations between athletes and a sports organisation regarding the performance of sports activities and the activities of an office be governed by a single contract. The legal position of professional athletes is largely not achieved as prescribed by the applicable Sport Act. Although the current Sport Act prescribed that a professional athlete should be in a working relationship with the club, in practice it is avoided in all possible ways, so instead of a work contract, various contracts on professional play, professional status contracts and professional engagement contracts are concluded and so on. Such contracts are neither in content nor in form, and they open a number of issues and problems, such as – what is the legal nature of the contract on professional engagement, what is the relationship between the contract on professional engagement and the contract on work that the athlete would later conclude, as well as the relationship between the annexes of the contract on professional engagement and the like. The charge of transfering athletes is one of the most important sources of income from domestic sports organisations. However, in practice, many abuses and irregularities in the process of contracting and realising transfers are noticeable, making our clubs a significant part of the current financial problems. The new law defines in a precise way the legal position of professional athletes and contracts that they conclude with their clubs, so a professional athlete is defined as a sportsman who deals with sports activity as a single or basic interest, as well as another athlete who has the status of a professional athlete in accordance with the sport rules of the competent international sports union. The professional athlete concludes with the sport organisation of the labour contract in accordance with the law, and therefore the athlete has all the rights and obligations of responsibilities from working relationship in accordance with the law because order is regulated, and if this law or the sport rules of the relevant international alliance are not otherwise established. The contract is concluded for a certain period of time, up to five years and is regulated in one place by all relations between athletes and sports organisations, including earnings and other incomes that do not have the character of profit. In particular, the law lays down the obligation of all organisations in the field of sport, as well as persons performing professional educational work with children in these organisations, as well as all members and employees in those organisations to promote equality among their children and actively oppose all kinds of abuse, abuse, discrimination and violence. It is particularly important to point out that law enforcement will not cause significant costs for citizens and businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises. Moreover, law enforcement should reduce the cost of citizens compared to sports, especially children. The application of the law produces certain costs for organisations and individuals in the system of sports, which are not new costs, but exist not only since the adoption of the applicable Sport Act, but also from the 1966 Sport Act. According to the Law on Professional Work in the field of sport, only persons who have adequate higher or higher education in the field of physical education and sport or who are qualified for professional work in sport in accordance with the law may be engaged. When it comes to professional work with children, it is about special expertise. This is also not a new cost for organisation in the field of sports, because it has existed since the 1966 Sport Act. The problem is that after almost 20 years, it is not yet provided that only qualified sports experts are engaged in professional work, but it is a professional work that continues to deal with many people who have the most experience in sports, and often not that. When it comes to a solution relating to professional work with children, it should be concluded that it is more favourable for the organisation in the field of sport because in the future they will be able to hire not only sports experts who are "schooled", but also those who are professionally trained to work with children. Since I come from Novi Pazar, I would like to thank you, Minister Udovic, as well as Secretary of State Peruničić for everything you have done in the previous period for the city of Novi Pazar and of course the SNS parliamentary group will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48104	Thank you. The word is a folk letter from Nevenka Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48105	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers with fellow workers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, are here today in the National Assembly a real sports day, I would say, because Serbia's most successful area is just sport. In 2015 it was the most successful sports year, and in 2016 the new one began the most brilliant one with our golden firefighters at the European Championship in Belgrade, and then the uncut and world number one Novak Djokovic as our country's best ambassador around the world. We will continue to cheer for our successful athletes until the Olympics in Rio, and later. Serbia is a sports country. Our top athletes are our pride. They are a role model not only for young generations but for all of us. This is an example of how serious and teamwork is achieved. This new legislative proposal, the proposal for a law on sport, is both new and more systematic and comprehensive, but it is the result of a comprehensive analysis that has been conducted, but broad public debates. Just to remind you, on December 2nd here in the small hall of the National Assembly, we were pleased to have a public hearing, and then on December 4th this bill was also found on the Education Committee. What's good, whether it happened by accident or deliberately, unimportant, that both ministers, both the Minister of Sport and the Minister of Education, were present, because the joint projects of these two ministries are happening, and they are looking forward to it, and it brings good to this area as well. The aim of this bill, I would say, is, on the one hand, a maximum coverage of the sporting events of all our citizens, sports activities, but on the other hand, the goal is to continue to improve our domestic top sport. We've heard it more than once, it's not burned again, what the data says. Every fifth-inhabitant, each third consumes cigarettes, about 40% of the population occasionally or constantly consumes alcohol, and somewhere near half the population has hypertension. Of course, we want to solve these problems. One solution is to increase the physical activity of all our citizens, and that is where we need to find exactly the reasons that lead to the passivity of our citizens. So far we've had an unsettled system, we've had a lot of problems in sports, a lot of abuses, monopolys, corruption. The sport was expensive. With this bill, many of these problems will at least be mitigated if not completely solved. With this bill of law, we're actually introducing order into sport. We have received a bill of law and an explanation that is extremely good and in its form, but also in its content, because we have a lot of analysis, everything is supported by facts, and these analyses are presented through various charts, tables. This time I would refer only to some newspapers, given that we have heard a lot from you, Mr. Minister, and from fellow Members of Parliament. First of all, I would start with children, given that I am both a parent and an educational worker, and indeed this law has been made in the best interests of our young and children. The most important news of this bill is that children from six to 14 years of age have a free medical examination, but not only that. They will also care about the level of membership paid by children, or their parents, but we also have to worry about who works with children, who are coaches, because coaches are often other parents. They're not only educating, they're raising our young. It is good that our children will be taken care of and when they leave our environments to train in other environments, that we will monitor their development, where they are located, where they feed, their life will be quality and monitored. The obligation of each program is that there are up to 15% of children's programs in the program. In this context, when we talk about young people, school, exceptional importance and school sport. We've got a lot of progress here. Not only is the coverage of children much greater, but the quality of the realization of these programs is also good. What I would draw attention to is that perhaps we can do more to the quality of the realization of extracurricular activities. I don't think the extracurricular activities in our schools are being monitored quite enough and there's room for progress, that the halls are being rented not just for training, but that they're being used for free of charge for extracurricular activities. Of course, physical education classes are also important, as these children learn from the spirit of competition, learn how to win, but also how to endure defeat, learn how to cheer sports, co-operate, teamwork. As far as finance is concerned, I'd only single out two segments. As far as local self-government is concerned, local self-government will be obliged to adopt the rules on funding, and that a club or organisation can have a maximum of 20% of the funding from these financial resources. Unity in sport – there are no privileged ones. Sports must be available to everyone, to all layers of society, but also to their children, starting from the earliest age, from preschool to youth, equal to women and men, but also to sensitive groups, children with developmental disorders, disability, of course and old ones. It's a good thing we're going to have a unique database, a national sports development fund, but I would point out that we may not be paying enough attention to prevention, because prevention is really important that not all of these unkind events happen. Of course, it can be achieved primarily by early education, but of course by criminal provisions. I come from a sports environment. It's April. The FK “Javor” was held in Ivanjica, which is now at the highest level of the competition. Otherwise, it's a club with a very long tradition. It was founded in 1912, meaning over 100 years of existence. From Ivanjica is also our coach of the football team Radovan Curčić, not to forget Ana Subotić, our athlete, the marathon girl, who has no conditions in Ivanjica to practice and train, we do not have the paths she needs. Ivanica has many talents, many successful athletes, sports workers and many teams have just come to us, because Ivanica is an air spa, for preparation and have always been pleased and gone. To conclude, we have a good bill. There's still a realisation, and there's a vision, you can see we're working for the future. It's a good thing this government led our President, Alexander Vukic, too, has seen the importance of sports. At the very end, of course unreserved support of the law, in the voting day along with SNS MPs, I will give my vote to this bill. Only one sentence in a sports dictionary – the way to success is not a sprint, but a marathon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48106	Thank you, Mrs. Milosevic. The word is by MP Sonja Vlahovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48107	Thank you, Your Honor. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, the proposal for a law on sports is a law that regulates the question of sports in a modern way. The failures of the applicable Sport Act and the problems in its application have been removed, but a number of provisions of the applicable law have been maintained. The bill is due to the need to regulate this area in line with European standards and regulations. The passing of this law is important because of the need to improve the sport system in the Republic of Serbia, the maximum increase in the practice of sports on the one hand, and on the other, to continue to develop domestic top sport. One reason for the adoption of such a law is that the Government adopted the Sports Development Strategy in the Republic of Serbia for the period from 2014 to 2018, which defines four basic priorities on the basis of which a plan for the development of sports at the level of local self-government is defined: improving school and university sports, improving the conditions for increasing the handling of the contrary in all segments of the population, especially children, youth, women and persons with disabilities, as well as old people, providing conditions for the development of top sport and professional sport, the development of sports infrastructure. This draft law with solutions will affect all sports entities and all public authorities. What is very important for the needs and promotion and interests of citizens, for which the implementation of which provides funds in the budget of local self-government in accordance with the law, is to set priorities when funding certain priorities, namely: encouraging and creating conditions for improving sports recreation, i.e. dealing with sports, especially children, youth, women and persons with disabilities. For example, a survey on public health conducted by the Institute of Public Health "Dr Milan Jovanovic Batut" and the Ministry of Health pointed to one worrying fact that in 2013 the percentage of population obesity increased from 17.3% to 21.2%. The recreational sport in our country deals with a small number of people, like you, respected ministers, and you said, recreation is a lifestyle. Contemporary illnesses are present in our lives, so one way of prevention is both continuous recreational activity and proper nutrition. I will take this opportunity and call on Serbian citizens to be recreationally engaged in sports because research has shown that women are underactive, especially middle-aged women. Through sports and life is better. About this good, quality and modern law, each of us, if he wishes, can praise and say a good word. I will mention the good solutions that this bill will bring – a reduction in discrimination, a level of membership, a medical examination for athletes from eight to 14 years of age who will be free, a reduction in the cost of citizens. But the new Sport Act produces certain costs for organizations, individuals in the system of sports. Costs arise for sports organisations in the field of engagement of qualified professional associates, in fact experts. Professional work in the field of sports will now be able to perform only those who have higher and higher education in the field of physical education and sports, which is very important, especially for children of preschool and school age. In voting day, support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48108	Thank you, Mrs. Vlahovic. The word is Svetislav Vukmirica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48109	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, fellow MPs, the proposal for a new Sport Law is the result of the need to comply with the rules in the field of sport with European standards, as well as the sport rules of competent international sports alliances, as well as the wishes of all relevant entities to further improve the existing system of sports through certain changes. This is why I would refer to some of the problems that were present, in many ways burden the work and functioning of sports clubs, prevent normal development of young athletes, which are also the reason for the adoption of the new Sport Act. So far, practice has shown that in certain national border alliances there has been a harsh violation of the Constitution and the laws of guaranteed human rights and freedoms. Namely, the national border alliances restricted and hindered the free movement of athletes in the direction of changing the club, imposing high and unreal compensation, as well as the conclusion of forced contracts. There have been cases that the offered sportsman contract by the sports club was considered accepted, which, in addition to violating other human rights, is also a violation of the rules in the area of bond relations. The proposal for a new Sport Act clearly defines this area, so that athletes who do not have a fully concluded contract with a particular sports organisation cannot be prohibited from crossing into another organisation. On the other hand, in the event of the termination of the contract between athletes and sports organisations, the dispute between the sports organisation leaving and the sports organisation in which it passes, the amount and payment of the contracted transfer fee or development fees, or the training of athletes established by sports rules, shall be transferred to the competent court, and the same shall in no way affect the activities of the athlete further. The proposal for a law on sport provides that the compensation for the development, i.e. the training of a sportsman in the conclusion of the first professional contract, in accordance with the sport rules of the competent national border union and the International Sports Union, based on the actual investments and costs of a sports organisation that contributed to the development of athletes, with the fact that as the last year of training, the year in which the athlete turned 21 years old can count. It is also specified that the fee is reduced by the amount paid by the athlete or his parent on behalf of membership fees, sports equipment, departures to preparation, participation in competitions and other activities. Then, the issue of medical examinations has been regulated in a quality way that will facilitate the functioning of sports organisations, while also disbursing the parent budget. The costs of determining health skills for minor athletes aged 6 to 14 years will be free of charge, and will also be determined by the competent health care service, i.e. the sports and sports medicine department. In this way, local self-governments that have provided certain means for medical examinations of athletes will also be able to shift their money to another item in their sports budget. The issue of professional educational work with children up to 16 years of age has been regulated in a way that only sports experts who have the right higher or higher education in the field of physical education and sports can work with them, which will certainly ensure high quality work with the youngest. The definition that the most educated will work with the youngest will give the expected result, and parents will bring complete security and confidence that their children will be handled as professionally and properly as possible. The new Sport Act also clearly defines the status of legal and natural persons who do not participate in sports competitions. Namely, football schools, tennis schools, camps, fitness centres and other sports centres can perform sports activities only in the form of a company, i.e. in the appropriate form of entrepreneurship, and cannot in the name of that company, i.e. in the appropriate form of entrepreneurship, have the word club or word alliance. What is also important to point out is that it continues with a policy that only one national sports alliance can gain the status of a national border union of general interest in a branch of sport, except in the case of sports of people with disabilities. This provision obliges local self-government to implement the same, i.e. introduces a ban on the financing of sports organisations that are not members of national border alliances of general interest. What is also very important for the needs and interests of citizens for whom funding is provided in the budgets of units of local self-government is to set priorities for funding. These priorities concern encouraging and creating conditions for improving sports recreation, dealing with sports, especially children, youth, women and people with disabilities. Then, construction, maintenance and equipment of sports facilities on the territory of units of local self-government, and in particular public sports grounds in residential settlements or in their vicinity and school facilities, eventually, physical education of preschool children and school sport. Local self-government units, through competent authorities, are closer to regulating the conditions, criteria, way and procedure of allocation of funds from the budget of units of local self-government, i.e. approval of programmes to meet the needs of citizens in the field of sport in the territory of the local self-government unit, while also taking into account national categorisation of sports and specific needs and interests of local self-government units. Certain obligations have also been imposed on local self-governments to submit an annual report on the overall allocations for sport to the Ministry of Youth and Sports, as well as to draw up a rules on the financing and development of sports in their territory, which will certainly bring transparent work by competent authorities in municipalities and cities. It is also important to point out provisions on the level of membership fees that cannot exceed 10% of the average salary in the Republic of Serbia. About the use of school halls, i.e. that they are the same priority for school sport and that the agreement on the issue of those in primary schools is given by local self-government, through the decision of the school board, while for secondary schools in the territory of the AP Vojvodina is the same and that for one club in the club there is no more than 20% of the total planned budgets for sport. Given that the proposal for a new Sport Act is of high quality, its application, or respect for its provisions, is important, so that a significant role in implementing it will be played by the supervisory authorities. This bill provides that inspection supervision in the territory of the unit of local self-government will be carried out by the competent authority of the unit of local self-government, i.e. municipal or city sports inspector, as his entrusted work. It is also foreseen that the function of a sports inspector will be able to perform a person who has acquired a higher education from the scientific field of legal science, sports, physical culture, in studies of the second degree, master and specialist studies, i.e. basic studies of at least four years, which have at least five years of working experience in the profession and passed a state expert exam. It is now on local self-government to find a solution and as soon as they hire professional people in these supervisory affairs, so that in the best possible way, the spirit of the law can be transferred from paper to the ground itself. With this I would conclude today's presentation, with confidence that this proposal for a sports law in the voting day will be supported by all MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48110	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go, Mrs. Malusic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48111	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Mr. Perunicic, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, today I will talk about the proposal for a law on sports. Before I begin, of course, all the congratulations for the extraordinary organisation of the European Water polo Championship and congratulations to our blue boys, also to our best representative in the world, Mr. Novak Djokovic, the great knight, the educated man and the great dud. What I would stress about sports is the 2011 Sport Act, however, it has a lot of inaccuracies, inaccuracies. We must go according to EU regulations and postulates. We know the rules are out of date, so we're making new regulations, and besides, this law is quite inadmissible and it's not being implemented, which is not good. What we are, what we stand for, is, above all, the need and what is taxing in this law is the need for everyone in Serbia to play sports, children, women, through people with disabilities, and that's great. Serbia has about 1.117, no, but exactly 1.117 top athletes, the small country's pride and 250,000 registered athletes, which is great. However, we have another problem, which is recreational sport. In Serbia, the Batut Institute has been doing research and it has proved that in Serbia 56% has never been involved in any sport, then 40% is consumed by alcohol, each fifth of the population is overweight, should not, given that this is an ecologically healthy country still, so we should all be involved in sports, in a healthy body, a healthy spirit, says my esteemed colleague, that we do not need parole. Well, of course, because we kids need to get on the road, and every kid needs to be involved in sports, he needs to be removed from drugs, he needs to be off the street, so the sport law is never better. I hope, given that there was a debate in ten cities, we passed an excellent law, and someone said it was phrases, well, I don't think so. This bill, which is full of charters, has taken over the best from the UN, from the Council of Europe and the EU. As far as the Sports Act is concerned, there are 132 sports branches in Serbia, 101 of which are very valid for Serbia, 11,000 organisations. Well done, bravo for a little country. What else is to be said, I'd point out, someone said we didn't take enough of the act and write it down, so that's not true. This is simply not true, we have done, here is the main act of the Strategy for 2014 to 2018, then what is very important, the Regulation on the establishment of the health skills of athletes and ultimately the Regulation on recognitions and awards. We're doing great. I'll read it, because no one has, what we've taken over from the UN. We took over the International Charter on Physical Education and Sports of UNESCO, we took over UN General Assembly Resolution 58/5, then all the best from the Council of Europe, we took over the European Sports Charter, the Code of Sports Ethics, Resolution 27/1996. Finally, all the best from the EU. What I would like to point out is, above all, the European Sports Charter, which is primarily a basic document for sports policy. It is based on the principles of rights, on the principles of humanity and pluralist democracy. What about Serbia, in my opinion, still a healthy nation? What about what you did? Well, it's an honor, it's a great law, I wouldn't change anything, of course, in a few years we might supplement it, and that's normal, everything's growing, everything's changing, dialectic, but what's still very important is the financing of sports. Comparative analysis was made. The comparative analysis was exactly what Serbia is doing about sponsoring, i.e. funding sports and certain EU countries. We have come up with data that mainly EU countries are financed from regional, local budgets, unlike the Republic of Serbia, where it is still based, focused on the Republic of Serbia's budget. That's not good. Then we have information that gambling is very dominant, as far as EU countries are concerned, with us it is a negligiblely small percentage. Also, funding can be, we all know, out of tickets, memberships, sponsorships of different, there is one problem in the Republic of Serbia, which we will remove by this law, which is exactly funding from public enterprises that is quite not transparent, and now it will be transparent. What's very important is new sponsors, private sponsors, and I'm very glad and I think it's the right thing to do. What else do you say about the sport law? Most of all, we have said everything except that the strategy, what is most important, which is the objectives, first of all, is to defuse sports as such and improve the sport system in Serbia, and what the strategy is based on and on which it is based, above all, improving sports and university sports, providing conditions for increasing the supply of mass sports and, of course, all rights for all. I already mentioned children with disabilities or persons with disabilities, women. There's something that's very nice, and the government has approved birth budgeting, and it's good for us women, and we're going to have a much bigger opportunity to practice sports. Finally, the development of sports infrastructure, of course, the proposal for a law on sport regulates all organisational forms, which is good. I don't want to count it, we've said a lot. It's a great law and, of course, the SNS will vote in favour of this bill in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48112	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Mirjana Djokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48113	The Honorable chairman, respected ministers with associates, fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, we are talking today about a very important legislative proposal. Given the fact that there are about 13,000 sports organisations and 250,000 registered athletes in Serbia at the beginning of 2015. When we sum up a full law in the field of sports in the past four years, we can freely say that it has met the expectations planned by its adoption, but for the further improvement of sports in the Republic of Serbia, it has been inevitable to adopt a new legal proposal into this high house. The adoption of a new law aims to increase the coverage of sports-related citizens, and the other goal is certainly to support further development of domestic and top-notch sport. The reason for this should be seen in the exact data that say that in the Republic of Serbia 56% of the population is not engaged in physical exercise at all and the question arises which are the reasons for this passiveity in relation to physical exercise. Studies clearly show that there is no free time for physical activity. Many citizens are not in a good health condition, and some have declared that inadequate sports infrastructure is evident, and that reason may also affect sporting inactivity. The marked specificity of sports and the experience so far in practice show that many things remain out of the law, all of which together influences that this area must be in line with the needs and interests of sports, given all the problems that participants in the sports system of the Republic of Serbia have. One of the key problems in functioning the sport system is its funding. The data suggest that 13 euros per capita was allocated for sport in 2011 which is more than ten times less than in France, where the figure is 158 euros per capita. The fact that in Serbia budgets in the past four years have continued to stand out for the country's funding of sports, and millions of euros were at stake. In 2012, 42.5m euros, 2013 40.8m euros, 2014 40.6i 2015, 41.9m euros. In order to understand the essence of the problem, it was observed that a large number of local self-governments did not agree with the provisions of the Sport Act, so it was observed that certain local self-governments had no procedures for the distribution of budget funds, the funds were shared within a small number of people, the money went to so-called. Privilege clubs. Studies of the permanent Conference of Cities have shown that the allocations for sport from the local self-government budget were mostly directed towards football. This research has led to data that only 12 cities have singled out 53 surveyed for sports scholarships by prospect athletes. This way of setting priorities is completely contrary to national categorisation of sports and national strategy for sport development. It is a very common case in the country of Serbia that two-thirds of the local sport budget goes to finance the privileged local club. This not only violates the Law on Sports but seriously endangers the survival of organisations that are very serious about improving school sports activities and organisations dealing with the development of recreational sport. According to exact data on the territorial spread of sports associations and alliances, I have data, for example, in the town of Cačka, 178 such legal entities are registered, and there is no sports alliance. Money is shared through commissions, and I am of the opinion that this particular sports alliance as a roof institution must be based on a national strategy and that things are being repainted at local level and that they are caring and monitoring local policy when it comes to the development of sports and a local environment. Finance should also be strictly controlled with previously well-defined criteria for the distribution of money, not for example to be divided, because it happens in practice that lower-ranking clubs get more funding than higher-ranking clubs. It is also not one logical thing for me, for example, that one city budget sets out 99 million dinars for measures related to all sports activities, and that 42 million are allocated to agriculture, for tourism and ecology again less than it stands out for sport itself. The good side of the law is that it envisioned the existence of a single national information system in the form of keeping parent records by the University of Sports and Sport Medicine of the Republic of Serbia, under the obligation of the organisation to enroll in those records. I wouldn't want to get the impression now that there's a intention not to invest in sports. Based on a comparative analysis of sports financing in the EU countries and the Republic of Serbia, it is clear how much is invested in sports from the position of the state budget, how much from the level of local communities, and how much is the private sector's position. Contrary to the financing of sport from public income, there is funding from its own sources, membership fees, funds from providing services and other activities. It means transfers, game development fees, TV rights sales, tickets, sponsors, donors and the like. Problems definitely arise from the disorganization of the participants themselves in sport, in the system of sports and mistrust of potential investors in the recipient of funds. It is particularly important to highlight the financial situation of local clubs that should be expected to be economically sustainable and effective in attracting and spending funds. One of the characteristics of the bill's proposal is that it leaves out provisions on the privatisation of social and state capital and that it is prescribed that this issue will be resolved by a special law. This topic has been debated since 1996, otherwise, these topics are very often at the heart of the Serbian, sports and political public, but the views are highly polarised and it is evident that these topics are when they run away. We cannot not talk about this very important area without saying what the Sports Development Strategy in Serbia predicted from 2014 to 2018. I will only list some of the general objectives - improving the system of sports financing, improving the legal and institutional framework in the field of sport, improving the position of athletes in society and the system of sports, improving sports in the military and police, improving international co-operation and sports in the diaspora and many others. In order to significantly improve the area of sport in the coming period and to co-ordinate conditions for long-term planning and adoption of sport development programmes, the law stipulates that the national strategy of sport brings the government to a period of 10 years, and that provinces and local self-government have an obligation to adopt programmes and develop sports in their territories. The law also stipulates that competent national, border, sports alliances bring sport development programmes to their sport branches. How many proposed legal solutions will affect participants in the system is indeed of great importance. The assessment of the effects of the law is very positive, primarily due to improvements in the system of sports. The effect is therefore positive because it allows sport to remain in the international system of sports, and it is increasing to involve the activities of citizens in sports. Positive effects should also be demonstrated through the establishment of a rational, efficient, transparent and sustainable system of financing in the field of sport. In particular, the important objectives that need to be achieved, the implementation of irregularities in funding programmes of public-income sports organisations, especially in local self-government units to a minimum, an increase in the organisational structure of financial responsibility of participants and the elimination of black money flows in sport and an increase in tax revenues through respect of the specificity and need of sport, in general. In my intention to recapitulate my presentation, the bill is the result of the need to regulate this area in accordance with European standards and regulations and the sport rules of the relevant international sports alliances whose development has been extremely dynamic in this area over the past period. Consensus with the new national regulations and consensus of all relevant sports entities that need to be amended legally in the area to improve the existing system of sport. That is all, therefore, why I will support this bill in the voting day along with my colleagues from the SNS Parliament Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48114	Thank you. The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48115	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, distinguished ministers with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, stands before us today with a proposal for a law on sport and we can immediately realise that this is an area that we have all agreed almost agreed on to be thorough, that the law is transparent. In a broad public debate, a public debate was held in 10 cities, that all relevant participants were involved in the adoption of this law. That the law contains elements of anti-corruption. Therefore, the law is anti-corruption. That the law is in line with international standards and that it is harmonised with EU legislation. The law is in the interest of athletes, that the law is in the interest of sports experts, that the law best protects minors who are actively engaged in sports. That there has been an increase in the scope of all those involved in sports activities, i.e. sports activities and through recreation, that in law a special accent has been placed on the development of sports in schools, schools and higher education institutions, that schools and higher education institutions are actually put into focus now, that it has been put into practice by the physical activities of children and young people, but not only to achieve top sports results, but in terms of the formation of their character, in terms of socialization, in terms of their proper psychophysical development, in terms of their health, in terms of their human relationship with others, in terms of breaking up many prejudices. Athletes, especially those top-notch, are certainly idols and are a role model for many young generations. One of the role models of many young generations is you, Mr. Minister, along with our athletes, water politicians, basketball players and other individuals, who on all continents and meridians provide the glory of the Republic of Serbia and serve as a role model for many young generations. What is positive is the fact that the law accurately specifies the competences of all levels of government, in particular the powers of local self-government, which local self-government will now be able to allocate funds based solely on the rules on established criteria, which local self-government will have to make an accurate percentage to develop both school sport and pre-school sport. Preschool sport is actually in the jurisdiction of local self-government, and this is about the development of preschool age through the game, through the development of motor skills and through actually an adequate psychological-social development of children. Also, I must stress the activities of the Paralympic Committee of the Republic of Serbia, which has in its jurisdiction the development, co-operation and organisation of competitions that are of public interest. It's people with disabilities. Also, I must commend that the Olympic Committee of Serbia, the Paralympic Committee of Serbia and the Sports Union of Serbia will regulate the code of sports conduct to combat violence on sports grounds and to prevent, in fact, general violence, the law stipulates that a national council will be formed to combat negative phenomena. It's not just about suppressing violence, it's about suppressing doping in sports, suppressing match-fixing and curbing all those negative phenomena. The work of the National Council to fight negative phenomena will include both the Minister of Sport and the Minister of Interior and the Minister of Justice, so that once co-ordinated activity, all of these negative phenomena require co-ordinated activity by the highest authorities, will certainly lead to a reduction of negative phenomena. What I also want to emphasise is the activities carried out by the University of Sport and Medicine of the Republic of Serbia, which is one way the service of the Ministry of Youth and Sports. The activities of the Institute of Sports and Medical Sports are primarily seen in the education of athletes. Otherwise, he's also a national training center. What I would also like to point out is that last year's Institute of Sport and Medicine at the Pribo municipality of Branko Radcevic University, for the first time performed a systematic review of all children attending the primary school, which is 125 children. Also, I must stress that both the props and sports equipment are donated to the Athletic Club "Storm". The project is under way for an athletic trail in Priboj, and I hope the Ministry of Sports will support both the realization and the position of the athletic path. I must also point out that the Alliance for Sport and Medicine of Sport within the campaign, of course, which is one of its competences, to raise awareness of how much sport it even means, has maintained an action called "What are you training". She was also in Priboy. I must thank you, Mr. Minister, for providing full support to the Novak Djokovic Foundation, who has invested funds and opened the first tennis field, because Prytoj is a small municipality, but the municipality in Serbia that has since 1880 had a sports tennis court, i.e. it is the oldest sports field in Serbia. I expect you to come to Priboj as well, since we know that this law is life-threatening, but also because you're going to the field and because you're the top athlete, which you used to be, you have a real insight into the real state of things. This is also my call to you to come and visit the Municipality of Priboj. Sport is one of the driving forces to achieve the Millennium Development Goals that have been defined normally through resolutions and through a UN request. The Serbian Progressive Party in voting day will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48116	Thank you. The word is made by MP Goran Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48117	Thank you. The Honorable Speaker of the Assembly, respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is clearly one of the laws that was expected in the public with special attention, a law which is expected for a reason to be better than any of the previous ones, to arrange a measure of special importance for the Republic of Serbia. As a former professional athlete, and then as a manager in one of the most successful basketball clubs in southern Serbia, I stress the satisfaction that after the preparation period and especially the long checks of numerous gatherings and evaluations of complementary people, today in this high home we have formally new law, and in fact are amendments and additions to the Sport Act, in order to perfect and improve all athletes, sports clubs and organisations, both at local and national level. Finally, we are approaching the right privatisation in sport, because I think it is necessary to suspend the irresponsible spending of the funds of all the debtors, as well as the irresponsible decision-making by the clubs. I'm glad we're getting closer to the Greek model, more specifically where football has its owner, and basketball is a brand, kind of like Panatenaikos and Olympicos clubs. The proposal for a sport law contains over 180 members, which requires a lot of time and space. Therefore, in the context of my presentation, I will look at only some details that specifically regulate the safety of all participants in sports activities. It is good that the proposal for a law on sport has very precisely listed all the rights and obligations of athletes, but also foresees protection from those who would, by their actions of the dispute, even abolish such rights. We are witnessing numerous signs and negative comments about the suspended or disputed rights of athletes arising from their contract with a certain sports organisation. The new bill encourages all those who are interested in engaging in sports activities in accordance with the law by regulating the rights and obligations of managers and athletes. I especially look forward to protecting the rights of amateur athletes with quality scholarship contracts and then transfer conditions. For a reason, minor athletes are additionally seen, especially those who go from smaller clubs to bigger ones. One example of how the security aspect of sports activities will be at the desired level is recruitment, education, engagement and final surveillance by professionals engaged in sports organisations. The obligation of established health skills exists for athletes involved in organised sports activities in the field of sports, and the obligations to determine special health skills exist at least once a year for sports experts engaged in the work with athletes. It is very good that the new law on sports introduces a free medical examination for children from six to 14 years of age, which is carried out in health institutions, the Republic Institute for Sports and Sports Medicine. When it comes to the security aspect and security offered by the Sport Law proposal, it is not important to insist on the obligation of sports organisations to conclude insurance contracts resulting from an accident during the performance of sport activities, i.e. professional sport work. I would also point out as a newspaper within the framework of the bill that athletes should not be exposed to sports activities that could endanger or worsen their health status. Of course, doping is forbidden in sports according to the law. It is also forbidden to expose children to sports and physical activities that can endanger or worsen their health conditions and have a negative impact on psychosocial and motor development or education. It should be stressed that insurance to top athletes playing for the team is mandatory. There are still misunderstandings among clubs that are not ready to join together and that they all perform together as a team, to reduce insurance payments, and to increase risk insurance premiums, thereby reducing financial expenditure to clubs. It is good that the bill states that only sports professionals who have a suitable higher or higher education in the field of physical education and sports can perform pedagogical work with children. The bill promoter considers children all persons under 16 years of age. This border may bother someone, but I, from my own experience and knowledge of international practice, notice that this member of the law is also in line with relevant legislation in European countries that have an extremely developed sport. I would like to draw attention to the professional supervision of particularly selected professionals, who assess whether professional work justifies expectations and, in accordance with the assessments given, propose to take certain measures to improve work and remove observed shortcomings. So far, practice has shown that three sports inspectors controlled this area in the Republic. The newspaper of the new law is the introduction of a sports inspector at the level of each unit of local self-government, which will be able, on the basis of the demands of a sports supervisor, to temporarily prohibit certain sporting activities, or activities. Matters in the law that speak of sports associations from establishment to termination of work and liquidation developed in a large number of members and my impression is that there has been a shift in quality compared to previous legal solutions in sport. What I expect from the new sport law is not only a sharper selection of projects and programmes offered, but rather a special importance of control, realization by the competent ministry and once a year about the use of Serbian budget funds is a report to the government of the Republic of Serbia. The provisions of members of the new law that speak of categorisation in the field of sport are well known to the public, including all of us. Under the law, I would like to commend the establishment of a national strategy for development in sport. In the sixth chapter, school and university sports and the physical education of preschool children are presented to a sufficient number of members. When it comes to the next chapter, clearly and precisely talk about sports facilities designed to carry out sports activities, from where I, as a particular binding, will point out one sentence – sports facilities must be accessible to people with disabilities, children and older people. The programme funding is concentrated at the level of the local self-government unit through transparent programming. I would point out the fact that 15% of the software is defined for working with children, while one organization, more accurate club is not allowed to reroute more than 20%, so that no organization pulls 70 or 80 or even 90% of the funds. An example of good practice as project funding takes place in the field of sports is, of course, the town of Leskovac from which I come, where the assignment takes place on an annual level in two parts, in order to align the calendar year with the competition season of the club. In Leskovec project financing includes 114 sports clubs, organisations and associations, about 46 million were allocated in 2015. There was also a cash award of the team, which is the eighth and highest ranking of the international competition. This law opens the possibility of education from the National Fund for Sport Development. At the end of today's presentation, I would refer to the most important member of the Sport Law, which is Article 4(1), which clearly states that everyone has the right to engage in sports and that sport is not only a privilege of the rich, but that it is necessary for sport to be available to everyone, not just another cost to parents. The new sport law has brought concrete solutions and restrictions when it comes to membership. I started today's exposure with a reference to some of the good aspects of the proposed sport law. I will end up putting out my personal attitude that we represent a sports nation that delivers sports sizes, so I will take the opportunity to congratulate our water polo players and our tennis player Novak Djokovic on the successes achieved. In the voting day, along with the SNS parliamentary group, I will vote, of course, for the adoption of such a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48118	Thank you. The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48119	Thank you, Honorable Chairman, Honorable Ministers, fellow MPs and MPs, for beginning to say that I am not one of those who will now speak praises about athletes. They are also responsible for the best of them and I really don't think it should be repeated here in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, because they talk enough on the ground about it and I don't want to use it for any other purpose. I want to say, Mr. Minister, that I have the impression that nothing better and nothing new has been offered in the new bill, at least when it comes to sports and those aspects of sports that are most interested in citizens, who are most interested in parents who have children in various sports clubs and associations. You say in the very explanation that the bill retains a significant number of provisions of the applicable Sport Act, that is, all those provisions that have been confirmed in the previous four years of the application of that law. There are now reasons why the law is changing. It seems to me that citizens do not see these positive aspects of which you have spoken or not seen in a clear enough way, because we are witnessing that the situation in sport is not good, that the situation in sport is not significantly good, that parents today, who are difficult to support the burden of economic difficulties in our country, cannot finance all the activities needed for their children. In that sense, I expected you to define clear rules with the law, at least when it comes to funding, because it is not good, Minister, when there are parts of the law and members who talk about how you will solve, which programs can be accepted by the ministry or commissions that you will form in co-operation with alliances, and then leave it at the Commission's free belief or you which clubs deserve and which not, or branches of funding by the state. When it comes to the province, too. You will leave the province government to decide how the funds will be spent, most importantly no supervision and no reporting is precisely defined by this law. We expected it, Mr. Minister, not to be spoken phraseologically about how we have aligned everything with European legislation and how it will now be great and wonderful. We are passing laws that should be applied, which should benefit the citizens of Serbia, and when it comes to sports being useful, above all, to children who are engaged in sports, school sport is a priority, amateur sport is a priority. These are priorities. When you say it's a priority at a local level, to invest in sports infrastructure, it only exists in one member and it exists in the municipality. You didn't commit local self-government to how they would behave when it comes to sports financing. You have in mind the part where you say, in relation to other European countries, that it is a low percentage when it comes to local self-government, but the fact is that in Serbia, local self-governments, clubs are financed by a party line, or by a godfather's line, or by a friendly one. It's a fact that we have to talk about because there are no clear criteria, there are no rules, there are no supervisions that you need to establish. This is repeated in this proposal. So I'm saying, there's no room for finding that we kept what's good, 80% of the things in this law are contracts, professional athletes all about commissions, managers. Where's the man, where's the life, where are the kids who'll play sports? That was supposed to be a priority, Mr. Minister. I think it could have been more achieved by this bill. I think we should take into account the problems that arise in the field of sports in the everyday lives of people and be some kind of leader for you at the Ministry of Sports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48120	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić. Here you go, Mr. Bojanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48121	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Minister, Madam Secretary, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Assistant Minister, it was a pleasure to spend the entire working day with you, and I just thought I had nothing to say, because almost all my colleagues have said everything about all 184 members of the law. Only about the last 184th, rarely who spoke. My colleague Ivan Jovanovic urged me to say something without repeating myself. As I noticed, colleagues Ivan Jovanovic and his colleague Stefanovic talked about the way they financed, and this is their only regret and objection to this law and a few small remarks they had from the SDS parliamentary group, etc. I also claim the law says that local self-government is obliged to comply with this law. So, in any case, local self-government will coordinate and I know that the local self-government I come from, in the King, has already done so and that surely in a transparent manner and appropriate manner this law will be the next distribution of sports funds made and done. The law says that a sports organization or club cannot possibly get more than 20% of local self-government. What I would point out, and it was really hard to say, because all colleagues also mentioned the role of public authority in the field of sports, which is the topic that the previous colleague was talking about. The colleagues also mentioned all of the European charters that you have applied and which were the basis for you, as well as the UN, to make up this law. I would point out in particular that all those accompanying acts, which you delivered with the bill, have described so well exactly what you did after all the public debates, after a great deal of work in forming this law. So, all those analyses, all those comparative data, all those tests you did in the field of sports, they had to lead to such a good law. What bothers me and I hope that this bill will fix it, I think that the ministry and certain sports alliances are doing, it's not uniformity. My colleague, I think she's a colleague of Ljiljana, mentioned 11,145 or how many sports organizations we already have. Of which 3,700, 3,800 are on the territory of the city of Belgrade, while in the territory of the town of Kraljev, where I am from, is 212, Užice, which is approximately the size, 111 and reach the Black Trava, or Priboa, which is 27, and there is a large city, which has only one sport organization. So it's some kind of task not to the Ministry, but to correct you and local self-government. And what I mentioned was that the Ministry of Sports and certain sports alliances are doing everything possible to make these inequalitys in Serbia an ID, which is the example of, above all, this swimming pool that has already been transferred from the arena to Vrnjačka Banje, which is my neighbouring municipality. An example of the town of Kraljev, Mr. Perunisic is there, a team of Serbia in handballs and women and men, played their qualified match in the town of Kralje, thanks to him, and also to that new and beautiful hall that is not only there to serve to look nice and whoever passes it to praise it, but to bring our children closer to all the top athletes, not to mention the Davis Cup, which was held in the Kingdom, or the match between Serbia and Croatia, where we showed the whole world as hosts we can be, and I call on everyone to come to the King at the Fed Cup during the end of the week, where our tennis players headed with Jelena Jankovic will be worthy to represent Serbia in a match with Spain. Since colleagues have said everything, and there are still plenty of us to discuss, I thank you in the voting day, in any case, for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48122	The word has the People's Messenger Susan Sharac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48123	Thank you. The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, the Honorable Mr. Perunicic, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the Honorable Citizens, sport is primarily a system of values that every society needs to cultivate and develop. Sport has a multiple role in society, of course, the most visible competitions and top-of-the-line successes, but sport also has an educational dimension, because children learn teamwork, discipline, fair-play, respect for opponents, as well as lose and win. Sport also has a health dimension, because physical activity is prevention, and good health is a prerequisite for superior results. Sport also has a promotional dimension, as it represents our country in the world in the best possible way, and our athletes and clubs name Serbia with pride. In view of all the above, it is entirely justified to have the need to systemically edit sports in a modern and comprehensive way. That's why we have today's proposal for a sports law. The competent ministry in drawing up the draft of this law has led to many solutions under the previous 2011 law, which have shown that they need to be amended, repaired or supplemented. I'd look back on just some of them in my presentation. From 2011, to this day, the most regulated funding is at the state level and there are clear rules, but unfortunately, this cannot be said for funding at the level of local self-government. Most of the objections are that during the preparation of the bill, the minister, the legal solution, and the public debates, it is at an inadequate distribution of local self-government funds. That is exactly what the big problem for Serbian sports is at the moment. What this legal solution is going to introduce is that every local self-government has to adopt a funding rule. The state has passed a rulebook, but the idea is that the local, at its level, adopt a funding rule and recognise certain sports branches as a priority for its local self-government. What's that supposed to mean? The desire is for the local to bring its categorization of sports and to recognize the sports branches that are their priority. It is known that not every local self-government can have all the sports and simply can't stand to finance everything, but the desire is to get a signal from the locals that branch sports want to favour and make a strategy for the next period. And that's why the funding rule at the level of local self-government is extremely important. Also, the big thing that is introduced by this law is the norm, where it is said that one club cannot allocate more than 20% of the total funds defined for sport in that local self-government. A detailed analysis has been carried out and it has been shown as a practice that individual clubs at the bar receive up to 90% of the funds. It comes to the fact that at the bar level, there is absolute inequality, and this is the legal solution that seeks to bring equality into sport and to make it possible for sports that have never had the opportunity to get funds, which, for example, fall into less popular sports, have no media space and cannot be forced on by sponsors, so from now on they can expect more funds than their local self-government. Also, local self-government is required to monitor the state and separate funds for infrastructure projects, then to allocate certain grants for prospective young athletes. In one word, the locale is fully following the country's strategy. The bill also takes account of how it takes care of and puts an accent on the defatting of sports, which is mostly what I think about doing recreational sports, which is very important for the reason why unfortunately we meet with an increased percentage of deformities in our children, as well as the increasing number of overweight children and adolescents. Sports must not be a privilege, but must be available to all citizens and especially children, with the aim of this law is to reduce parents, to make our children more healthy, and then to make sport more successful. What is a newspaper and a big step, is that this law introduces free health checks for children from six to 14 years of age, which is commendable. Another very important issue has been resolved, and that's the question of a contract in a sport where there's been a lot of abuse. For example, talented athletes of younger categories from various sports, managers offered lifelong contracts and they signed them. So they became some sort of white slave, because managers use a difficult economic situation and permanently bind them to themselves. The new law states that the deadline on which the contract is to be signed may be the longest for two years, with the possibility of restoring it to the same period of unlimited number of times. Also, with this legal solution, third parties will be totally eliminated, and the player will sign contracts exclusively and only with authorized managers. I have listed only some of the many changes and touched only a small part of what makes sport globally important for each country and for every nation, therefore it is no wonder that sport in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia stands out as an area of special interest for the Republic of Serbia. For all the reasons mentioned in Voting Day, I will support this bill proposal, as well as my parliamentary group, the SNS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48124	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48125	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Arsic, Honorable Minister Udovic with his associates, Mr Zorana Babić, I address you out of respect that tonight you are the only president of the parliamentary groups here among us, and there are 12 presidents of the parliamentary groups. This speaks of you as a man and a relationship to this Assembly and a relationship to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. And that's not the first time. Before I move on to the bill, allow Mr. Udovici with his associates, first of all to thank you, both you and the athletes, to all those who won one of the medals in 2015. As our political opponents say it's political marketing, and my smallness will be concrete, so I'd like one of them to deny this here tonight. Let me just get some information out. At the 2015 and 2014 World Championships, I've been speaking since you're the minister in this government, 160 medals, both gold, silver and bronze. World League 121 medals, European championships 187 medals in total, therefore both, European purchases 146 medals, for your ministry, Balkan championships 460 medals, total in this year 728 medals, and when we take in 2014, another 709, that is 1,437 medals. On this occasion, I thank both you and your associates and everyone who has won these medals, their coaches, their organizations, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia for paying off every athlete in time. I'm moving on to the bill now. Let me say that this proposal for a law on sport has its foothold in the exposé of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Alexander Vukic, whom he presented to us to the MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on 27 April 2016. To point out and to the attention of all those concerned, the exposés of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Aleksandr Vukic, is the most transparent, most precise, most concrete, 52 densely typed, and thus the best of all 72 previous exposés by the Serbian government since the time of the first Serbian Prime Minister Prote Mateja Nenadovic to date. It is precisely the exposés of Mr. Alexander Vukic and his realization to date that is one of the basic assumptions of stopping the sunfires of the Republic of Serbia, in which we were brought by the Democratic Party of the former regime. In the exposé of the Prime Minister, page 38 says, I quote -- besides, when it comes to sports, the establishment of a clearly defined system of financing sports in Serbia according to the strategy of the sports system, finished quote. It is precisely this proposal, Mr. Minister, the Sport Act, that solves this funding problem in particular, as my colleagues and fellow SNS MPs said, at a bar because at the level of the Republic, it still worked. And to point out, the resources that stand out for sport aren't as small, to compare, they're the same as they are for science. Let me tell you my impression today, here, and I believe, Mr. Minister, that you've heard, too, how much praise on account of the law, but also on what criticism, but you've heard more criticism without a proposal, and that's what those who have had 12 years of time to change, and haven't changed the state of things have just told you. We have the impression that one part of them, none of them unfortunately tonight in the O.R. because they immediately escaped, has not even read the law, let alone the reasoning of the law. This is for the public, Mr. Minister, I haven't seen a better explanation of the bill in the last year and a half. Of the 244 pages of the densely typed text of the law that you have delivered to us here, 84 wastes on the law, and 166 on the basis of full analysis, not only of sport, but also of legal regulation. In that sense, it's an honor. That's why the law is one of the best in sports since this tall home even brought them. Now allow me a few sentences to say that it's a great thing, Mr. Minister, which sport under this law will first be available to all those who want to play sports. In other words, there will be no privilege of the rich and that is what is very important. Any discrimination and unwanted consequences will be eliminated inside. What is very important, you have defined that sport is of special importance to the Republic of Serbia. This should have been more emphasized and allowed, while I am already on this issue, to say from 132 sports branches, you, Mr Minister, in this law 101 sports branches stressed that it is of particular interest and importance to the Republic of Serbia. Well done in that part. I'm not gonna talk about law enforcement anymore. Allow me as a man who has worked with a young man his whole life to say what is what you have very well solved, and our political opponents have claimed they have not. I have a feeling they haven't read the law. It's a great thing you've defined sports. Five elements on which it's based. And that's that it has to be humane, free, voluntary, healthy and safe. Mr. Minister, you're the first to try to return the educational goal to the ministry you're dealing with and the organizations that deal with the Ministry of Sports have a full age of 17 to 20. I am very pleased that you worked with the Minister of Education and the Ministry of Education and on our board were both ministers, and that is what gives strength, not only strength, but knowing that you will surely implement this in practice even though our political opponents claim that you will not. What has not been well set up so far, and that is that you, Mr. Minister, have finally had an understanding of the educational function of sports and school in general and school sport. That's what we've been looking for for for 15 years. One of the former ministers today was here and he didn't think to set it up, although unfortunately he tried to compare, for all the honours to Djokovic, he's world champion, but Nikola Tesla is in science, and this is about abilities, not knowledge, etc. This educational function of sport is invaluable to the fate of not only our children but our countries as a whole. In that sense, you are in the exact same detail as you were asked years ago for conscious education workers in the RS, and they are largely in the majority. I address them tonight – gentlemen of the educational workers, here is Minister Udovicic who has returned the educational function legally to sports organisations not only out-of-school activities but also school activities. I'm glad you worked closely with the Ministry of Education in that field of school and university sports. But what encourages me, which is that you have very clearly defined what school sport is. You have finally managed to resolve the systemic discrepancies in the priorities and direction of the development of school and university sports, and here, Mr. Minister, not to say for decades the opposite opinions ruled. The dilemma existed – whether it was sports around the school and what the priorities are, as much as possible child-related and youth sports through the school sports departments or school competitions. That's the dilemma, gentlemen, educational workers we've had for years. It's this law and this ministry that solved this problem, and the point is that it's the center of all schools. It is placed at the heart of all activities in the development of school sport, with the potential for the involvement of students and students in school and university sports. That doesn't deny it, as you said, Mr. Minister, the importance of school and university competition, but it doesn't put them first and that's the real deal, and that's what every expert and pedagogue in our country will agree on. On the other hand, it's great and it's not true what political opponents say you haven't set up extracurricular activities. You've just defined them here to be conducted through the school and student sports departments organized by schools and university institutions, universities and universities. For years, decades, not to say it wasn't solved, and now it's still being solved. Not to bother the citizens, you'll know exactly the connection between school and extracurricular organizations, their plans and programs and me as an educator for a long time, and this is one of the most beautiful days I've ever seen. You emphasized that programs should also have educational functions of the school. Thank you for this. The education has been expelled from society for 15 years, we're giving it back a little bit. I believe that the SNS will quickly return this to other factors of education and education, educational function in society. Extracurricular sports activities have been organised and they have priority in the use of sports halls. That's what you said directly, and it's something that our parents of our youth and students are following very closely tonight. Thank you, they have a priority over the outside. Now I'm going to finish, Mr. Minister, in a strange way, I'm going to end up a little bit in a strange way. Why? You don't put this law just, let's say, in order to sport, but also the way our children and youngsters look at the world. That's very important, because the law is so conceived. They have to change that view of the world today, because they have it twisted. I'm going to say a few sentences about this, because there was no question about it today, and you've just potentiated in the law what I'm about to say. I'll describe it. Our children, students, students think they owe them all to society. The first ones are their parents, to take care of them, to train them, to suffer them, to lead them. Other debtors are friends who have to respect, to support them, not to insult them. The third debtors are the ones they love, because they must love them and understand them and suffer them. The fourth debtors are their teachers, because they have to give grades, even when they don't know. The fifth man is in their debt to the state, to get them a job, and he's guilty of everything they can charge her with, even if they didn't do anything themselves. They all owe them, but they don't owe themselves, and we don't owe ourselves. This view in your law is overcome, which is based on that they are obliged to all those who lived centuries before them, if they have heard of them, because they should have been a role model and an example, as you are an example in sports, or Djokovic too. Furthermore, they are obliged to become, and yet they are not, they owe them. We need to learn that in sports, as well as in education and education. They are obliged to those who gave birth and are obliged to those who died, for they have sent a strong message to all, and they are obliged to those whom they admired, even once, even as they admired you and Perunicic, they are also obliged to those who welcomed them with joy, at least sometimes to be happy in them. They owe work, order and discipline. Our prime minister said, I quote, on one occasion: "We will change Serbia for the better, we will have difficulty changing consciousness". Right through this law, Mr. Minister, we're changing consciousness all together. I really hope that the SNS will work to change our people's minds in the future, without work, no life. That must be understood by our political opponents, because tonight there is only one, here, gentleman versus me, thank you for being present, one of the opposition. Thank you for that. (Jovan Markovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48126	On what grounds, Mr. Markovic? (Jovan Markovic, from the place: The mention of the party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48127	Dear Chairman, I think the conditions have been met, given that the previous speaker said in the first part of his presentation that DS was responsible for the Sundiving State and then continued in some context that was very negative in that sense and I don't think it's surprising why I asked for a replica. I understand that the previous speaker prepared a speech yesterday or yesterday and intended to focus on some things that were not the subject of today’s discussion in this debate. Despite your efforts to prepare that speech yesterday, you should have been involved today in the debate and heard that we were focused all the time on helping both the minister and his associates and all the people who worked on these jobs for a long time. Your insistence on allegedly fighting for educators...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48128	Please, no personal address. I know that as an MP, you are prepared to make such a discussion that you do not personally address the MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48129	When a previous speaker takes to protect educational workers in a situation where he has been silent in this assembly for a year and a half, when the same educational workers are reduced salaries, when pensioners are reduced, when we have come to the situation today to talk in exactly the same way that professional people who are employed in schools are now implementing this law, how that those who have paid 35,000 and who are working in basic education now through supplementary work come to some income, a previous speaker who has been silent for that year and a half now trying to present this system, or a regime that was earlier as something that was a pity for Serbia. If he kept his mouth shut for a year and a half for all the problems the educators had, he should've kept quiet about it tonight.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48130	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48131	Our attempts and suggestions we had were directed in this direction at how to include qualified people from this area in all projects and processes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48132	Right on line, MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48133	I cannot believe, the respected citizens of Serbia and the honourable MPs, that the previous speaker said this. Did I say this in the National Assembly, let it enter the open parliament 93 times? There were among the 20 MPs. Did I talk about education, get on the Board of Education and Science website, technological development, and they'll have the right picture. His concern for educators is too cynical. They understand this message very well, they will say it in the next election. I simply cannot believe that in this National Assembly, MPs serve false things. If I've spoken and spoken, the citizens will judge. The citizens know very well how many times he's spoken. So, once again, I'm undermining, I can't believe that the MP, that this is coming out of his mouth, and the citizens have seen very well who was setting themselves up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48134	The word has the People's MP Veroljub Matic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48135	I will not be long, and I think I will speak about this law on the other side of what is not said or said very little. First of all, sport is like a part of our daily physical culture and we're almost all engaged in sports every day. Sports is also part of a common culture, and what a athlete may learn is that he behaves with dignity both when he wins and when he loses. I think that every man's life brings to some difficult moments, when a athlete simply puts up with those moments, because that sport taught him to be dignified and to lose. The law puts a lot of things in order, but certainly not everything and not all areas. In addition to alliances, border alliances, etc., perhaps there was no place here for this council to say, which is a judicial alliance or a judicial organisation. Simply, sports can't go without judges, without these litigators of justice, especially if they do it in a tall and top-notch way. Just maybe one of your comments, Minister, if you have time and you will. Next, in addition to all the divisions in the sport that are given here in Draft Law or tomorrow in law, there is one division that simply lives on the ground, which is school and youth sport and senior sport. Simply, it's kind of a division where simple sport works that way, and it seems to me that local self-government needs to pay more attention to funding school and youth sports, while senior sport is easier to find sponsors and ways to finance. The hardest part of sports is preventing negatives in sports, and these negatives are most viewed in match-fixing or results. When games and results are staged, it's the worst thing that can happen in sports and there are all involved, by actors, judges, managers, alliances, etc. And that should and should be contained in the root because then sport simply loses its meaning. What is very important is the work of teachers, professional workers, educators, trainers, because they are key people who practically create athletes and create a future personality. Very often it's said that a good man was an athlete. I think it's settled and it has its own justification, and this is largely contributed by practically professional sports workers. The exercise of sports, starting from the state level, from the minister and beyond, surely should be top-notch of our athletes because they simply understand this matter best and certainly manage it best. Those who may not be mentioned enough, and for me are heroes, heroes of sports, they are young athletes, amateurs and amateur sports workers, because from that part there is the greatest massity, from which come the most talented athletes, grow up to be top athletes, representatives, etc., so simply, they are someone who simply deserves a full attention. I don't want any more. I will vote within my parliamentary group for this law and I hope that the law will be applied very soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48136	The word is from the People's MP Vuceta Toskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48137	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I now address the Minister briefly. I think you would have accepted all these remarks that former regime MPs made on this bill, only on one condition, that they were never in power, because they had 12 years to do something, so there were some relapses of their past. Now I'm moving on to what I've prepared. We know that in smaller cases in our sport, the government, mildly said, is reluctant, indiscipline manifested by finance, through corruption, to the pure organization of a sports club. It's the most unhappiest sportsmen in these clubs that get hurt. The previous Law to Sports was passed in 2011, and there were amendments and additions to the laws that we see did not produce good results, so it is necessary to pass a new law where certain members of the current Law on Sports of the Republic of Serbia would still have given some results. So, according to the Sports Branch Regulation, there are sports branches in the Republic of Serbia, where there are 101 sports branches of special importance, where at the beginning of 2015 there are about 13,000 organisations in the field of sports of the Republic of Serbia, while 12,321 are in the status of associations, societies or alliances in the field of sport, with more than 11,000 sports organisations and with more than 250,000 registered sports. Out of the total number of athletes for 2014, there were 11 017 athletes in the status of top sports, 739 in Olympic sports, while 368 were not in Olympic sports. I cite this dry statistics on our sport for citizens to see the situation in the sport of the Republic of Serbia, and perhaps to conclude on their own how isolated it is from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and that it must have good control of these funds, to prevent many illegalities from harming the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and most athletes themselves. That is why it is necessary to pass a new law on the sport of the Republic of Serbia. It is extremely important to pass this bill to improve the sport system in the Republic of Serbia, to allow as many citizens as possible to engage in sports. Out of mass, the best emerges and thus encourages top-of-the-line sports. According to some surveys, for 2013 in the Republic of Serbia, every fifth adult or 18.6% is overweight, and each third person consumes cigarettes or 33.6%, and imagine, 40% every day or occasionally consumes alcohol, while 46.5% of the population has increased pressure. That's why citizens play sports. This encourages work ability and is not occasionally burdened by other citizens, such as sick leave. With this bill, we are moving our way towards the European Union. This encourages measures to ensure that every citizen has the opportunity to engage in sports and thus obtain top conditions for talented young people, as well as for disabled people, for disabled people to show their sports skills. This bill does not allow any discrimination against the population. Sports facilities of general importance are planned, as well as in school facilities, which would promote active sports for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and, more importantly, encourage sports in the workplace. She has a folk who says, “In a healthy body of health and spirit, ” and the spirit is the essential value of sport. It is characterized by: ethics, fair-play, honesty, health, great achievements, character, education, teamwork, commitment, respect, rules and laws, respect for yourself and others, community and solidarity. That is what this bill promotes, as well as all the other laws passed by this National Assembly in the last two years by a set of reform laws, which Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic said would implement reforms in Serbia to find Serbia in the order of developed countries of the world. Me and the SNS will vote for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48138	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48139	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is no individual in our country, there is no individual in our society who is in a direct or indirect way not related to sports – whether as a current active athlete, whether as a former athlete, whether as a fan, whether as a parent of a sports child. Anyway, I think every citizen of ours is connected to sports and sports activities on different grounds. This, by the way, shows today's list of speakers who, I would say, have never been so long before, because a large number of MPs spoke about the Sport Act, but also spoke about what sports and sports activities mean for our society and for our children, both for the present and for the past and for the future of our country. But what also painted today as a rare when in the National Assembly, it is a fair-play, fair-play that exists in sport, but also a fair-play in the National Assembly, because all speakers, from their corner, spoke in a very dignified and quality way about the proposal for a law on sport. We're a small country, but we're a country of great champions. We are a country of Divca, but we are also a country of other sports giants such as Djokovic, Sale Djordjevic, Pixi Stojković, Peđa Stojanovic, Šoštar, Igor Milanović country, Šapić country, Udovic, Pizon and Dulet Savić country, another giant country of Bobby Marjanović, the land of the brothers Peruničić, the Grbić brothers, the land of Igor Gocanin, the land of Jasna Šekarić, Ana Ivanovic, Jelena Janković, the land of Spain and the land of a giant who, unfortunately, is no longer with us a few months ago and deserves his place in this play of sports giants of our country, which is Dejan Brđovic. There is little time, and that is all five hours, as long as time has been determined for all the parliamentary groups, to list all those people who are in the present, but also in the past time have defined sports in our country and raised the reputation of our country. Being champion is an honor, and not only a matter of moment, but also an opportunity to present your country, to participate in various sports activities, different disciplines, defending the color of the Republic of Serbia, performing and wishing not only that golden, silver or bronze medal, to be able to resist the athlete himself, but also to hear the anthem of the Republic of Serbia on various world meridians. That's why I'm very grateful to all these people, both present and former champions, but also to those future champions, because that way from one small country I really think they are and that we can rightly bear the name of a country of sports giants. These are the champions deserve, and this is the theme, which is the theme of sport deserves one serious approach. That serious approach, Mr. Widow, I think you've shown it. Because you have organised a series of public hearings in many municipalities and cities of the Republic of Serbia when writing and creating, first draft law on sport. Because you've listened to all those people, those hardworking and hardworking people, the great enthusiasts, whose enthusiasm, whose energy is operated by many clubs and many sports alliances in the Republic of Serbia. You've had enough energy and time and desire as former athletes to listen to each of your colleagues, to implement all those good suggestions and put them to be part of the draft, and then the bill. What I would also point out is the energy you have shown, the respect you have shown for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because in informal talks with all parliamentary groups, whether the opposition parliamentary groups, whether by authority, have held these additional consultations with the National Assembly before the draft law itself, or the draft law, came in line with the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. A serious approach to sports and to all people who are engaged in sports in the Republic of Serbia is shown by the Government of the Republic of Serbia because, as never, it seems to me, there is no debt to champions, according to the winners of various sports competitions, that those people who win medals, and behind these medals are days and days, years of denial, years of shed sweat, training, years at the end and shed tears, deserve attention, deserve respect from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. What the Government of Alexander Vukic shows in a way that all those obligations are made by winning medals, that these obligations to athletes are paid in time. Someone's gonna say, maybe it's not much, maybe those premiums aren't big. But I believe that by sorting out the state of public finances, by the state of the Republic of Serbia's budget, these premiums will be bigger in the future, but also that this discipline and this respect shown to the champions will continue to be the same as the government in which you are participating, and you are one significant member. This is the Olympic year. The year when Serbia, I believe, will, as never before look forward to the results that our athletes will achieve. I look forward to the fact that our delegation in Brazil is bigger than ever before, that it will be even more numerous, because I believe and root for both our basketball players and for all those who have not yet confirmed their visa for the Olympics, but I believe in the team of Alexander Djordjevic and I believe that in the Belgrade Arena they will be worn by the audience, carried by the energy of all of us, that they will approve the visa, but also be one of the most serious competitors for the most brilliant Olympic medal. I believe our Olympics will be escorted in good spirit. I believe that we will escort them from the queen of Serbian tourism, from my native Vranjska Banja in a carnival atmosphere, to send our representatives, our Olympics, so prepared for the carnival atmosphere from the carnival Banjski atmosphere to Brazil so that they can represent our country in an adequate manner so far and we can hope for one double-digit number, the number of medals. It's me as an ordinary citizen, as a fan, and I believe I share that wish with you, Mr. Widow, but with other MPs. What I would single out in this bill, I think life is above all else, that life is the most valuable. Unfortunately, we often learn from the media that at various sports events, in training, in all meridians in all countries, unfortunately something like that happened in the Republic of Serbia that because of overload or because of some other things people who are involved in sports often do these ugly things, that someone dies on sports grounds. What you have predicted by this law is a mandatory and free medical examination that has certain deadlines when it is carried out. It's a solution that will contribute to such things, if they don't fold, then at least to lower themselves to the least possible measure. When something like that happens, when we see something like that in any country and in any field, then it's the only thing that can darken all those markings and all those medals that take place. For this reason, it is good that this law also foresees in such a serious and thorough way that it primarily refers to human life and to all those who are involved in sports. Of course, if we are a country of champions and a country of giants, but if in that country of champions, the country of giants doesn't have enough sports grounds, a sufficient number of sports infrastructures where young people will define themselves and train towards their own affinity of certain sports, then it's all for nothing. I support what the Ministry of Sports is doing, which is a kind of decentralisation that it is possible to practice sports in a quality way, on good terrains, not only in Belgrade, but also in many other municipalities and cities in the Republic of Serbia. I think everything the Government of the Republic of Serbia has done and Mr. Alexander Vukic's decision to build a national water polo centre in Vrnjačka Banja besides the National Football Centre in Paz, a good decision. A decision that is based on decentralisation and approach itself, but also in a way that enables young people from the inside to have one good infrastructure and to play sport in a good way. There is a large amount of investment, but I think our most professional sport in Vrnjačka Banja will get its own good house, a house from which it will continue to take on those quests of winning the brightest and best medals. Of course that's not all. Not all because Vrnjačka Banja, with the consent of the volleyball national union, also in Vrnjačka Banja, is building a national volleyball centre, that the government of the Republic of Serbia has defined itself for the 200m dinar investment, that Vrnjačka Banja gives its own space and utility, and that the rest of the investments themselves will cover the volleyball alliance. I think it's a good way for each of the alliances to get their own home, get their own house where they'll be able to perform good training and accommodation and education and sports and gyms and all that sport itself is going to. For this reason, the Government that proposes this law and you, Mr. Minister, who is directly authorized and directly involved in writing this law on the Law of Sports, deserve both full attention and support and praise, and for these words that I have given you, but also for all that the MPs of the SNS have spoken today, you will receive full support from the SNS parliamentary group. Keep going, you were the champion while you were active in sports. I am sure that such a spirit and you and Mr. Perunicic and others, other colleagues and colleagues from the Ministry of Sports, that you are such a spirit, a champion spirit, and you have brought this ministry and go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48140	Thank you. The word is made by MP Branimir Rancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48141	Thank you. Dear chairman, respected ministers with ministry associates, respected MPs, respected citizens of Nis and Gajino Han, along with greetings to Novak Djokovic and gold water polos, I would also congratulate our handball players on the fighting they showed at the European Championship. If you want Mr. Perunicic's good handball results, I invite you to play a qualification match with the Hungarians in the Hall "Chair" in Nis and the results will not go away. Today, we are facing a long-awaited, very large and clearly defined proposal for a law on sports. As a man who has been an amateur sport in his youth, he gives me the right to talk about this bill in a debate that is being held in principle, because I absolutely understand the pleasure of dealing with sports and the problems that are related to the area. As we know, the Sport Act was adopted in 2011, and it was amended, more specifically certain provisions of this law ceased to apply as a result of the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Agency for Commercial Registers in December 2011. Analysis of the application of the Sport Act over the past four years and of the problems faced in the work of state authorities and sports organisations has shown that the law has met expectations, but to further improve the state of sports in the Republic of Serbia it is necessary to adopt a new Sport Act, which is why I am extremely happy today. What sets out this proposal for a law on sport is that the introductory notes provide a clear definition of sport, as well as the definition and explanation of certain terms, i.e. terms, that figure in sport, so that the law is understandable and clear when read. The reasons for the adoption of the new Sport Act are numerous, so it takes time for every reason to be particularly absorbed, but I will mention two very important reasons for me. First, the reasons stemming from the irregularity of certain important issues for the functioning of the sports system in the Republic of Serbia, both in the Law on Sports and in the general laws on certain areas. Secondly, the reasons that arise from the need for all citizens, especially children, young women and people with disabilities to be able to practice sport in permanent ways, with the support of those athletes who achieve top results. When considering the reasons for the adoption of the new Sport Act, its solutions should be taken into account that the Government adopted the Sports Development Strategy in the Republic of Serbia for the period from 2014 to 2018 after a wider public debate in 2014 and I will be so free for the period from 2014 to 2020. The strategy defines four basic priorities, based on which to define or define a plan for the development of sports at local self-government level. First, the promotion of school and university sports. Second, the provision of conditions for increasing sports in all segments of the population, especially children, young women, people with disabilities and old ones. Third, providing conditions for the development of top sports and professional sports. Fourth, very important, the development of sports infrastructure. The basic principles that the Sport Law is based on are numerous, and I'm just going to mention some. First, it's the principle of free sports. Second, the principle of protecting the health of athletes and sports experts. Third, the principle of expertise. The fourth principle, the principle of respecting sports as an inevitable factor in citizens' health. The leading cause of death in the Republic of Serbia is mass, chronic, non-infectious diseases, more than 85%, so that on the structure of mortality, heart disease and blood vessels, 56% is a medical axiom – a man is as old as his blood vessels are, and not as old as he is. Only in second place are malignancies with 19%. Over the last decade, significant increases in record and diabetes mean that physical inactivity is a very important risk factor when it comes to mass chronic non-infectious diseases. These facts are also confirmed by research by the Institute of Public Health "Batut". In the Republic of Serbia, every fifth adult is overweight. Every third person consumes cigarettes and 40% alcohol. That's why sport is an elixir of health, not to mention the impact of sports on mental health and mental hygiene, which is my and professional orientation as a neuropsychiatrist. Someone also mentioned the fact that there is a healthy spirit in a healthy body. Finally, let me point out that the essential feature of this Sport Law proposal is that it leaves out the provisions on the privatisation of social and state capital, i.e. the property contained in the applicable Sport Act, and that the issue will be regulated by a special law. The problem is not so simple and its solution must be done by a special law, because otherwise, if the issue were contained in the Law on Sports, I fear that because of the scale of matter, this law would be inefficient in certain areas. In voting day, I'm happy to vote for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48142	The word is made by MP Branka Jankovic. He's not here. The word is from MP Vlado Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48143	Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister with associates, respected fellow Members and fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, today we have a sport law ahead of us. The main task of the state is to arrange and provide a system of sport in which all its citizens would have free access, wherever they live and regardless of their physical ability. At the level of local community and society in general sport can significantly contribute to the promotion of health and prevention of chronic diseases, the development of education of children and young people, gender equality and empowerment of women, as well as the inclusion and well-being of people with disabilities. The constitution also defined that the Republic of Serbia regulates and provides a system of sport, in the light of the Law on Sports adopted in 2011 and the National Strategy on Sport Development for the period 2014 to 2018, as well as numerous sublaws. The laws and sublaws clearly define the rights, as well as the obligations of entities in the field of sport, define the general interest of sport from the Republic to the local level and clarify the rights and obligations of athletes and sports experts, with a specific reference to categorization, scholarship and national recognition. All of these also define the health care of athletes, prevent violence and misbehavior at sports events, determine the way training and professional training of trainers, for professional work and obtaining a work license. In Sombor, where I come from, there are 147 coaches currently, 111 of whom are licensed by the national border union. In the development of Sombora sport has always taken a special place, and such status deserves based on the sports results achieved, then, by mass, as one arranged, and I can say a built-up system of organisation and commitment to one of the planning arrangements of this area. That is why the need to adopt a sports development programme in Sombor has been imposed and the long-term development of sport in general has been established. The vision of sports programs and development in Somboro is to improve the quality of life of citizens, our local self-government through the practice of sports as a key element for the psychophysical and social development of personality, so that each individual has the opportunity to engage in sports and develop his personality and improve his physical skills, maintains good health, and uses his spare time purposely. Four priority areas have been defined. It is, above all, the development of sports of children and youth, including school sport, then, the pursuit of sports by citizens through the development and improvement of sports recreation with the slogan "sport for all", development and improvement of top sports and development and improvement of sports infrastructure. The sport in Sombor has a long tradition, and it was organized in the second half of the 19th century, in 1867 by establishing a chess club, then, in 1872, by setting up a club of swordsmen and in 1872 by setting up the oldest athletic club in the former Yugoslavia, it is an athletic club called Maraton, which has held up to this day, which delivers excellent results, whose president is back six years, and I can proudly say that the athletic club Maraton now has three representatives in junior competition. It is also important to note that Sombor was among the first in Vojvodina and the former Yugoslavia to have a sports hall built in 1970, as well as a closed swimming pool in 1980, and the Sokolski dom sports and recreational centre was formed in 1927. The institutional mechanisms that exist in the town of Somboru, which are in charge of maintaining the system of sports, are primarily the Sports Union of the city of Sombora, City Council for Youth and Sports, Department of Social Labour, Commission for the Distribution of Sports, etc. All these mechanisms are tasked with initiating and participating in the development of local strategic documents, taking part in writing local action plans related to the development of sports and monitoring of their implementation. Funding from citizens' budgets is in line with legislation, which regulates, normally, this area, and distributions are done on the basis of competitions with pre-determined criteria and criteria. In 2015, 130 million dinars were allocated from the Sombora budget, which is 5% of the total amount in the budget. That is why Sombor and local self-government are among the leading in Serbia. The allocations are made according to the criteria for co-financing in sport, so 16 scholarships, five pioneers, three juniors, two cadets and five seniors were awarded in 2015. The Maraton Athletic Club, which I run, won a scholarship. I'd like to say a few more words about school sports. The basics of school sport are physical education and it represents an inevitable link in promoting active lifestyle. School sport should be a base for debasing and developing sports in the city, to be a link between schools, clubs and sports associations to improve public health. During last year, 14% of children participated in sports competitions. The basic problem in Sombor is that we have a sports doctor and he can't physically get through all the kids, so the teachers give up and don't take the kids to the competition. During 2014 and 2015, about 2900 athletes were examined. The next shortfall is the lack of school halls in both primary and secondary schools. One hall has a gym, which is said to be unconditional, but physical education classes are also performed by a high-tech school, which has an O.R., but it's totally unconditional and it's got a solution to ban teaching in it. So, in Sombor, 10 schools have no gym at all where physical education would be performed. As far as recreation is concerned, it is generally necessary to encourage and encourage all kinds of sports recreation, and it must be primarily regular, under the leadership of professionals, in relevant sports facilities and with mandatory medical control. Dealing with recreational sports is expensive, since commercialisation is present both now and in working with children. So, sport is literally burdened with financial and economic problems, which requires greater issue of personal financial resources, especially for parents, in terms of the purchase of equipment, payment of the terms of the hall, coaches, membership fees, etc. As a result, children often have to give up sports. While the sport of people with disabilities is practically in the infancy, namely, there are free recreations in the water for persons with motor disabilities, but this type of recreation uses only eight people with disabilities. Our local self-government also has free sports programs. It is a free school sport "Skocko" and "Sportić". The programme last year included 350 children, who passed this project and acquired the basics of physical culture, unobtrusive and through the game three times a week in the morning. I would point out that there was still free recreation for women, who started as a pilot of the 2010 project, so that in 2014 there would be 400 participants in six rural local communities and three groups in the city, so that in 2015 there would be 450 participants. In the end, the town of Sombor adopted a plan for the development of sport in the form of general and specific objectives. Of the overall goals of promotion, it is primarily an improvement in school and university sports. In kindergartens, there should be conditions to organise a school sport with high-quality and highly educated staff, hiring a professor of physical education, increasing the number of sports doctors in sports dispensaries, which is also a matter for the health minister. From the specific objectives, I would only mention that it was an increase in the number of sports sections within school and preschool sports. It is necessary to make quality plans to use school halls for sports sections, but this is not quite possible, since schools mostly strike terms commercialise, and sections of what remains. In voting day, the SNS will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48144	The word is made by Parliamentarian Milorad Cvetanovic. The remaining time of the parliamentary group is three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48145	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister Udovic with his associates, State Secretary Mr. Peruničić and Mr. Zekovic, first of all, I would like to thank you and give all my congratulations for the extraordinary organisation of the European Water polo Championship in the "Combank Arena" January of this year. The meaning of the word "sport" in the world today means pleasure, pleasure, entertainment, rest, exercise, competition, running, but at the end of the 20th century sport becomes the most business that mercilessly swallows everything in front of it and grinds everything in its path, on its way to profit, without forgiving anyone and almost always without a second chance for those who did not understand it in time. Sports theorists point out that the essence of sport makes it an opportunity for man to manifest himself through movement in different forms of exercise and competition of people. The passing of a new law on sport in truth was inevitable and a great need. This bill will regulate many unexplained objectives in the context of a global strategy in sport, give instructions to many sports organisations in which they need to bring their statutes in line with the legislation in sport and how they will succeed through a legal framework to bring their development plan and development programme into line with local self-government and the Republic of Serbia in the best way possible. What we especially need to pay attention to in the implementation of this law is precisely those of the youngest who are or should be involved in school and university sports. We are witnessing a primarily enhanced presence of spinal column deviations, such as kefos, lordosis and scoliosis. At the time of the world's technological revolution, when young people are just far more concerned about computers than about physical culture at all. The presence of students in the classes of physical culture is in constant decline, as well as for out-of-school sports engagement in certain sports sections. I believe that such an approach, among other things, arises through insufficient commitment in ideological terms and the design of new programmes and beyond teaching activities. Also, one of the great causes is not enough good sports infrastructure, which very often demotes those of whom we expect top results. Infrastructure development in sport is the basis for further progress and in general for the motivation of talented children to opt for a particular sport. I must say that the definition of the government of the Republic of Serbia to build a super modern national football stadium is exactly the way and the way that state aspirations should be in general, if we want our children to be healthy and physically and mentally. If we remind ourselves of how and in what way we have brought so many European and world champions, the rulers on the ATP lists, Olympic and Paralympic sizes, we must admit that the reasons lie first in the Serbian genetic predisposition and talent, as well as the highly educated trainers, mostly enthusiasts...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48146	Time, my colleague Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48147	... Because what else do you call them, when they are producing countless great athletes whose incomes are fabulous, they remain in their humble living conditions, often forgotten by students themselves, and also by sports organisations. It is unimaginable that they, I think of foreign sports experts and players that we have educated from the very beginning and elementary things and were to them as a sports nation role model, are now coming and holding training lessons from the same branch, from the same branch of sport, as their players are coming to strengthen our clubs. We stopped somewhere, it looks like we missed a lot. How come nobody's ever been able to start a college league in football or basketball...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48148	Thank you, Mr. Cvetanovic. It can't go on. I've been up for 45 seconds. The time of the parliamentary group has been spent. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before concluding a principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary group, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word is made by Minister Vanja Udovicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48149	Finally, I want to thank you for your constructive dialogue, your opinions and your support. We will certainly discuss the details and all the suggestions presented tomorrow, and we sincerely hope for a constructive debate. Thank you all, and I look forward to tomorrow's session.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-02-0.u48150	Thank you. I am concluding a principled search on the draft law. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
