ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10224	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 87 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 95 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Prof. Dr. Milorad Mijatovic, Natasa Mihailović Vacic, Jasmina Karanac and Nenad Konstantinovic. We continue to work and move on to a common, principled, unique search on the drafts of the law from points 15 to 22 of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they are invited to attend today's session: Prof. Zoran Mihajlović, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Civil Engineering; Transport and Infrastructure, Aleksandar Damjanović and Miodrag Poledica, State Secretary at the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure; Jovanka Atnakovic, Zoran Ilic and Veljko Kovacevic, acting as Assistant Minister of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure; Mirjana Cizarov, Director of the Civil Aviation Directorate of the Republic of Serbia; Andrijana Jovanovic, Deputy President of the Commission for Public - Private Partnership; Ambassador Zoran Djurisic, Coordinator of the Consular Affairs Department at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Vasilija Petkovic, Head of Visa Policy at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to carry out a joint, principled, single search on the drafts of the law referred to in points 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21 and 22, and before the opening of a joint principled, uniform search, I remind you that it is in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total debate time for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I am asking MPs' groups if they have not already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 170(1), I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a joint, principled, uniform search on: Proposal for a Law on the Management of Airports; Proposal for a Law on the Housing and Maintenance of Buildings; Proposal for a Law on the Transport of Dangerous Goods; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Transport of the Republic of Serbia and the UN on the Central Office of the Trans-European Railways Project; Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of a multilateral agreement on commercial rights in extraordinary air transport in Europe and the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China on the Interrelation of visas for holders of ordinary passports. Does the representatives of Professor Zoran Mihajlovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure want a word? The word has a folk MP, Vice-President and Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10225	Thank you very much. The Honorable chairman, honourable MPs, MPs, Serbian citizens, faces you today eight draft laws concerning, above all, the transport sector, whether it is air traffic, road traffic, rail traffic is also directly or indirectly related to transport. Draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public-private Partnership and concessions, as well as visa waiver, housing law, relating to the construction sector and communal activities. I will try to be the shortest and explain what this is about, which is why the Government of the Republic of Serbia, along with all the ministries of these laws, has proposed to parliament for adoption. The Law confirming a multilateral agreement on commercial rights in emergency air transport, otherwise adopted in 1956, was adopted by four countries: France, Belgium, Luxembourg and Switzerland. How important it was for the development of air traffic shows that today 21 countries are signatories to the agreement. Our intensity is that it is Serbia as well. The essence of the agreement that we are going to discuss today concerns one narrow part of the emergency public air transport, primarily air taxis, transport to aircraft, so up to six seats, emergency medical flights, then flights to some isolated areas. It is therefore possible for all those who sign this agreement, all air carriers carrying out this type of transport, to be able to carry out transport without special approval. This agreement is in line with all the documents of our air authorities, but also with the directives and documents of European aviation authorities. The second agreement is an agreement between our government and the UN on the Central Office of the Trans-European Railway Project. Serbia, or Belgrade, will host the Trans-European Railway Central Office. I think it is very important for our country, since Serbia, above all, has a great position that we are trying to continue to develop through the development of infrastructure. In that sense, our situation is that we will be hosts confirmed in April 2015, very important. This agreement, which is in front of you, first of all, treats certain technical details of our presidency regarding everything that one office must have at the moment when it presides on such a very important Trans-European Railway project. I will remind you that in 1992, Serbia and 16 other countries signed the agreement with the UN. The third law is the law on amendments to the Law on Public Private Partnerships and concessions, for the first time in Serbia adopted in 2011, there have been certain changes, because as life has been and as certain problems have been seen, so simple and the law has been regulated to be even better, to be of course in accordance with all European directives. We've had some changes in March of this year, but what we're doing today on the amendments and additions of this law is that, above all, we are increasing the security of the whole process and the whole process. For your information, the public-private partnership committee, established by the Serbian government in 2012, adopted 41 proposals for public-private partnership and concession projects, 27 are a public-private partnership, 14 are concessions, and 17 contracts have been signed so far. In general, this law should really enable us to somehow reduce this range that exists between a great desire and a demand for one good infrastructure, especially in local self-government, and on the other hand, often with the inability to have certain sources of funding for that infrastructure and to actually manage to build such infrastructure. That's why this vision, as some new vision, is used by the sources of funding and is used by that difference, which is when you look at projects that are approved and the realisation of these projects, or contracts that are actually signed, is not a sufficient number. So we need a much more private-public partnership than we have so far. This law, amending this law, also clarifies, on this occasion, and special forms of concessions, therefore, concessions for public works and concessions for public services. Also, you'll see in the members, I believe you've already had a chance to comment on it, which is that there is a real difference between a public-private partnership with elements of concession and without. This difference was mostly treated through some other laws, and now it's within this bill. The next law is the Airport Management Act. I think that by adopting and hoping that by adopting this law in Parliament, this one image in air traffic is finally surrounded, when we are talking about full air traffic, because recently, when I say recently, in the previous composition of Parliament, we adopted the Air Traffic Act that has treated the system of security and air navigation. As far as airports are concerned, he arranged questions relating to the type of airport, purpose, etc. This Airport Management Act for the first time practically treats the very clear performance of airport management as a general interest, and it is very important, given that when you look at our air transport and look at what Serbia has done in the past two years, then it is quite clear that somehow air transport is isolated from all other modes of transport and that we are indeed already governed by all EU standards, which is important for us to have European standards so that we can develop. On the other hand, remember that just two years ago, the number of passengers at Nikola Tesla airport was below two million, and we are talking about 4.8 million passengers at Nikola Tesla airport today. So, this trend exists, and at all our position, the position of our airport gives us the opportunity to further develop the airport. On the other hand, there are about 30 small airports in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Not small by appearance, but by capacity, i.e. the number of passengers transported and these are: Morava, Kraljevo, Ponikva, Vršac, Novi Sad, Bor, Subotica, Zrenjanin, Kikinda, Mitrovica, Lisichi Jarak, Smederevo, Kostolac, Valjevo, Paracin, Čačak, Trstenik etc. They're all airports that can be used. Some for managing some sports services, and some for certain transports only again, but these are certainly airports which we in certain phases and strategic directions will not leave exactly aside, but will take care of them. The next law in front of you today is the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Goods. We are in the area of transport, even when we talk about road, rail traffic, water traffic, a lot of laws, both on the transport of goods and the transport of passengers. This is a very important area that we have to take into account, which is the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Goods, which practically defines very clearly the conditions of carrying out domestic and international transport of dangerous goods in road, rail and water transport. On the other hand, it also clearly defines all those conditions and obligations that all those who are engaged in this kind of transport must have. This law fully transposed the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the land transport of dangerous goods, which is the basic reason, among other things, why we wanted to talk and to pass a law like this. On the other hand, this law is somehow a dam for a gray economy that certainly exists and we can't say that it doesn't exist in transport, but it really does with every law that we're passing slowly and reducing. Also, the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Goods is institutionally changing one of the organisations. A certain number of years ago, the Department for the Transport of Dangerous Waste was established. This administration ceases to exist by passing this law and complete action is transferred to the frameworks of the Ministry of Transport. We think it's much more effective. We think that, in this sense, the dangerous goods transport sector will only be engaged in these specific jobs, and that practically all those other jobs, which were also dealt with by the Administration, so, financial, public procurement, accounting... It simply won't be anymore, because it will work in the Ministry's Secretariat itself. A very important law that woke up a lot of comments is the Household and Building Maintenance Act. This is a law that, I would say, touches every citizen in Serbia because we all live somewhere, apartments or houses, and it is simply impossible that we are not interested in all the provisions that treat this law. For the first time, I would say, after many, many years and many of the laws that have been passed, even three laws that are being treated, in some way, this area, which is the Housing Act, the House Building Maintenance Act and the Social Housing Act, we put before you MPs one law that tries to provide conditions to talk, one moment, about a sustainable way of living, which also provides the basis for the next year, in 2017, finally the Republic of Serbia has its own housing policy strategy, that we have an Action Plan, that we know exactly in which direction we are developing practically when we talk about housing, to ensure that minimum maintenance that must exist in each building, to keep an eye on, because this has now become a matter of people's security, because we have situations that bring us serious problems when we talk about the maintenance of buildings themselves, but on the other hand gives us a basis that we start to think completely different topic of energy efficiency. Almost 90% of residential buildings and houses are built without respecting energy efficiency standards, and that is a problem from those who of course live in their apartments and the costs they have, but on the other hand and from the point of view of the state, because we need to behave more rationally than energy. For the first time, this law very detailedly defines the attitude towards housing, first of all, towards social housing, then precisely defines groups that have a problem and that appear, in that sense, as social housing users. For the first time, you will find in the law victims of domestic and partner violence. So are the homeless and all the other groups. What's important is the facts in this law, which have raised a lot of comments, so I'm going to say them very briefly at first, and then in the debate, we'll probably, to further explain them, is that all the time, in the past years, we've allocated some money for building maintenance. It's often or too often that we don't know if that money, or what the structure of that money is, is really in the result that we get building maintenance. At the same time, we had a situation where our facades fell, that the elevators weren't working, that we had a million problems going on in our buildings. When we speak from the cost point of view, there are no new costs here compared to what we already set out as tenants of certain housing facilities. It's very important that we finally know how and how to manage apartments and housing, who's responsible in our buildings, that we don't just drop our facades and not kill someone, because we've had cases like this in the last 10 years. So clearly prescribed rights and obligations. Secondly, the appearance of professional managers who also came across a lot of resistance, I'd say, on the very side that doesn't want order. So, in buildings they can't or don't have to, so they're not obliged to have professional managers. In other countries around us and in the EU, they are mostly mandatory. Here's the choice of tenants. So, if the tenants in their housing unit choose their so-called. The former president of the House Council, now the manager of the building, will then be the one to take account, in accordance with this law that defines more clearly the rights and obligations, so what will and how will be managed by the building. If the tenants don't want to have their neighbor as president of their units, they'll choose someone who's going to run the barrier along with the Chamber of Commerce. Also, the issue of forced administration exists only in those buildings where tenants cannot agree who will actually manage the building, who is who will take care of our money that we single out and for which we need to practically get a certain service, and above all a minimum maintenance according to the principles of security. Local self-government, therefore not tenants, but local self-government is the one who will choose, I hope, always, if that is at all, on a certain deadline for the forced manager, whom he will also choose together to the Chamber of Commerce. Forced managers have to pass certain tests, have their licenses, etc., so they can do it at all. A very important part of this law for the first time in decades solves the issue of protected tenants and apartment owners. Their interests are completely conflicted, of course all this time and it's not easy to talk to each other, and try to find what's the most just way to solve this issue, because when we do, this question has to be solved. Also, all the countries around us have solved this issue. We kind of put it aside all the time. A serious ten-year-old deadline has been given to local self-government to resolve this issue. The largest number of these apartments are located right now, i.e. those tenants are located on Belgrade's territory, in downtown Belgrade. The next law that is as important as this and as everyone I have mentioned so far is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Community Works. We often face problems. First of all, what are really municipal activities? Do local self-government have the money to actually carry out their communal activities? How are they financed? On the other hand, do we really get the quality service we need if we're talking about communal activity? This law has made much more detailed and defined what communal activities are. In some areas, a very clear principle of competitiveness has been introduced, and this law also provides, in this way, the possibility of much more stable financing of municipal activities. What I think is important, for the first time in this law there is, above all, an opinion, and a user opinion is respected, that means citizens, about the quality of certain municipal activity. At least once a year, and it would be good if it were a little more common. The laws ahead of you, I believe that today, and as much as it takes, we will talk about each of these laws, about every member of the law that you think may not be clear enough, or that you have a proposal to be even better, but I think that each of these laws gives the opportunity, firstly, to raise the quality of life of Serbian citizens to a much higher level, because it is our job and to establish clear rules, clear criteria, in every area that I have mentioned so far, to touch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10226	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10227	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Ms. Mihajlovic, I would like to welcome you and your associates, as well as representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and I would like to say a few words on the draft law, on which the Assembly today will declare itself, and this is the proposal for a bill to confirm an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China in the mutual abolition of visas for holders of ordinary passports. The committee adopted the proposed text of the law by majority yesterday. There were no negative comments, on the contrary, all verbally supported this bill. Not all voted during the statement, but it is part of the assembly atmosphere and relations that exist in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I am saying this because all MPs of the Foreign Affairs Committee have supported the bill, because they believe it is an extremely important law that further improves, an extremely high level of interstate relations between the People's Republic of China and the Republic of Serbia. I want to, fellow MPs and the public, to learn about the fact that Serbia will be the first country in Europe to accept this law that will allow Chinese citizens to stay without a visa in the Republic of Serbia for 30 days, and will be one of 11 countries of the world that has such a visa regime with the People's Republic of China. This is only for the Republic of Serbia to further upgrade the high quality of relations that exist. I would like to remind all those present to remain citizens of the People's Republic of China, within 30 days, and what it will mean to improve the content of our co-operation. It's not just about what's going to happen now, it's about what's going to happen. People have simplified their view that it is only about improving co-operation in the field of tourism. But it's not just that. There will be that, as well as in all other areas, and how the opportunity is given to behave in advance. I want the public to know that Serbia with China has established the highest level of interstate relations in Europe, the level of comprehensive strategic partnership, that we were pleased that in June of this year, President Si Jinping visited the Republic of Serbia to be a guest of our president and of our country, that it was the first time in 32 years that a Chinese president came to Serbia. I want to inform the public that in 2014, the Republic of Serbia hosted the Third Summit of the 16 plus one co-operation process between China and the Central and Eastern European countries, that the president of the Government of the People's Republic of China, Li Kecang, who visited Serbia at the time, was the first president to visit Serbia after 28 years. I want the public to know that our relationships also have what is good, quality content, that we are not the first to lift visas. We are the first country in Europe where a Chinese company has built a bridge. It is the Zemun Bridge – Borca, that we are the first country in Europe, where one block of the Kostolac B thermal power plant was built, it is a project to revitalise the construction of a thermal power plant. That we will be the first country to realise together with China a project of reconstruction, modernisation, construction of a railway between Budapest and Belgrade, that if many other signed agreements are realised, at this point we have 92 agreements signed with the People's Republic of China, plus these six signed now in Riga, one of those agreements signed in Riga is the agreement that we are now discussing. This will be an extremely, extremely great benefit to us also for the Republic of Serbia, in various areas of opportunity for the largest number of citizens of the People's Republic of China to come to Serbia. I will talk about this and in general in the debate, but I would like to point out that our Ministry of the Interior, that other competent authorities, the resolute ministries, have given support for the adoption of this law, have assessed all aspects of the application of this law, including security and others, have removed any possibility that the possible application of this law can produce any, I say, negative effects, on the contrary, everyone thinks that this law is very, very good. Of course, our desire is to improve co-operation with the People's Republic of China, and when it comes to tourism, not to remain on 14.692 or vice versa, as it was in 2015, to increase their number, which will certainly contribute to improving co-operation in the area of air traffic, but on the way, because you will certainly as a minister introduce us to all that the Government is doing. In one word, the Committee adopted this proposal yesterday.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10228	Thank you. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10229	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister of Associates, dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we have before us a set of very important laws. I'd like to take as much time as I can look back, first of all, on the Law amending the Law on Private and Public Partnership. I believe that one law is of paramount importance to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. First of all, in the opening statement, you have already mentioned that 17 private-public partnership agreements have been signed at Serbia level so far, and I must say that I am in the municipality, which I am in charge of, in Topoli, the bearer of five such contracts and therefore we are the best local self-government, convincing in Serbia. That's why I want to say, first of all, to encourage other local self-governments, and also for citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that private-public partnership projects are a huge untapped opportunity, because that way you can solve a bunch of problems, from transportation, from taking out garbage. We were the first in Serbia as a local self-government to do a private-public partnership project to take trash out of the rural area, and for this reason we were officially declared the cleanest municipality in Serbia, public lighting and everything else in 2016. What is actually, in essence, perhaps the problem and why so far there has been reluctance with local self-government regarding private-public partnership projects is a couple of things. First of all, I think, there is still little information about themselves, both citizens and local self-government and certain educations would be needed to simply make it stronger in Serbia itself. Then, I must say, it's a little complicated and procedure. It is here, and I am pleased to welcome the distinguished Miss Andriana, or the lady, who is the secretary of the Commission for granting consent to the RS government's private-public partnership, but she is the best witness we have ever had and the troubles we have to gain agreement. I currently have two other projects in the process, one is for recycling waste, the other is a project that I think is extremely important, which is for maintaining cemeteries in the rural area, because unfortunately, we are as a people by little and very little, where public utility companies in cities and towns are also cemeterys and are maintained in a better way or worse way, but, for example, in the rural area, the situation across Serbia is in very poor condition. It was left to local communities to manage how they know and know, and unfortunately, they tend to get away with it very badly. What I was about to say is, what's the additional problem? When contracts were signed and in the old law, it was said that these contracts would be delivered to the Ministry of Economy and those contracts should be made public on the Agency's website. That'd be good. None of us who've done a lot of these contracts, don't run away so easily, let's see different experiences and see how certain local self-governments have solved certain problems, and this exchange of experiences could make a lot of difference. That's why I'd like to ask you, Madam Minister, to simply relive the central register of all private-public partnership contracts. If this comes to life and a clear education comes to life, only then will the law produce the right results. What I would call first of all, and that is what I have said, competent at the Resolute Ministry, which gives the Secretary of State a committee to give consent to private-public partnerships that is a little more efficient and up-to-date and that would be better for all of us from local self-government. And of course, to make the idea more clear, what it is we want and what we can do, which is a public good thing to give to a private partner or a concessionary. New Serbia will support these amendments to the law on both private-public partnership and amendments to concession laws in the day of voting, but what I would now, of course, and most MPs who would talk after me, which is, he's tied up with a law on housing that has caused a lot of reactions in the public of Serbia, and I have to say to us, MPs, I, too, because of the citizens of Serbia who are watching this transfer, wanted to draw some ten things that are important and that we can comment on together, what brings new housing law. You've already warned a little bit, when you were talking about the law, the building manager. We've had the presidents of the tenants' assembly so far. Unfortunately, most of the buildings in Serbia did not even have the assembly. We have a bad practice of local self-government, in the 1990s people got a few hundred marks of apartments, buildings became private, and when they need to get some money to give these buildings, and especially common rooms, elevators, staircases, we all have terrible problems here and then these same people come to municipalities and say – come help us now, give us some money. It is true that there used to be a SIZ or a fund in local self-government or whatever it was called, a solid residential building whose funds were used to maintain buildings, but there is no more. What you have already mentioned, the building manager who will choose between the tenants by procedure as chosen earlier and the president of the tenants' assembly, the manager elected by the tenants themselves will not be paid, but we now have what I called a forced manager, if the tenants cannot agree with each other, there is local self-government. She will appoint this forced manager and says so - hire a professional manager from a list run by the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. It will be paid by the tenants until they choose among themselves the manager, the sooner they choose him the less they will pay. Otherwise, that payment will be per apartment from 200 to 350 dinars. Now, I'm interested in the Honorable Madam Minister when we say up to 200 to 350 dinars, squares, I understand all that, but how will the criteria for individual apartments be determined what amount will be paid on a monthly basis? That's something I'd like to hear more specifically than you. I'm also interested in how it's going to be determined and how it's going to be, and what time period we're going to have in Serbia are going to have these people who are going to be your so-called tomorrow. Forced wardens? How long will it take, will it be in the first half of 2017, by the end of 2017? I'd like to hear what their net salary will be on the monthly level. It will depend, of course, on the number I don't know, the apartments, how much luck anyone has to get how big a building or how many companies there are in that building, but does the Ministry have an estimate of how much it's going to cost? What's new is that the building manager is something that would be popular for me today. The building managers will have a similar function as the previous chairman of the household, I have already said. What is important is that it is the manager who should inform the authorities to perform an emergency intervention, if necessary to take care of the gutters, the other parts themselves, whether it is a roof, an elevator or anything I have already mentioned, or to represent a community of residents in all legal matters. Now one question, when he says he needs to represent the community of residents in all legal affairs, of course it means that he's going to collect money for all the things in common that need to be fixed, maintained, serviced, so that we're so very careless, and all of us who have some apartments in some buildings know that, the question is who controls and who controls the work of this forced manager, because it's obvious from all this I'm saying, that he's going to have some money. The question is who will oversee it, does he have an obligation to conduct some kind of public procurement, for example? If the roof repair is on one building, it requires significant material resources. If you have companies in the building, plus private tenants collect a certain amount of money and you need to have it at your disposal. Does he oblige a forced manager of the Public Procurement Act? Then, onward, data on tenants. That's interesting too. This law requires that directors or should I say these coercive administrators conduct a thorough examination of whether there are tenants in the building or not. If they exist, do their owners, or the tenants, pay rent taxes, what are the contracts, what are the heights? What I'd like to ask is a public concern, which is that we have a large number of apartments, especially in Belgrade, where you have people who are abroad or not living in Belgrade, and they've given relatives, friends or someone, not relevant, so on. keeping the apartment. All of us who have both studied and in high school have broken the thresholds of different bosses we fear that this 20% tax law will be a financial blow to the studentry, as I say, on students. I'd like you to tell me how a selection of who's a tenant is going to be done, and who's a relative or a guardian of an apartment? Is there going to be any selection? Then, what's going to happen, who's going to evaluate, is it going to be local tax administrations, the size of an apartment rental contract? Because, watch out, if one of the average rents an apartment for a student is 150 euros in Belgrade, which is a 40-50-square lease, will someone who rents an apartment of 100 or 150 squares be able to figure out how to rent it for 150 euros and who's going to be the one who's going to do all these assessments and who's going to be able to make someone say if it's a real price and what are the penalties? Since I saw in that criminal policy that the penalties for not paying for the maintenance of the building would be between 5,000 and 50,000 dinars, it's interesting and I fully support it, but the bottom line is that I couldn't read anywhere what the penalty would be for falsely providing information about the rental of apartments, who was in those apartments and what was going on about it. What's also interesting is that the tenants will be responsible for the damage. There, that's one newspaper that Serbian citizens should know. Many buildings currently don't have a congregation of residents, let alone the president, so it's interesting now that they're elected, either they'll be managers or those forced managers, they'll, of course, be responsible for maintaining the building, but it's only a question now that they'll have the very obligations to keep buildings and everything else. Then, he says, buildings must not endanger third parties or the property of third parties, and if there is damage caused by inadequate maintenance of the building all tenants respond. I'd just like to hear a comment from you on these findings. What also burned my ears, so I would also ask for a certain explanation, is that if one of the tenants does not want to pay the maintenance fee for the building, the warden will have the right to submit evidence of the unpaid fee to private contractors. If that's out, that's a great thing. What I would like to commend especially in this law is that there will be no more protected tenants. That's something that's very commendable. I come from the forest where unfortunately after 1945 was savage nationalization. Many people, by chance, have come to apartments that have been taken away by nationalization from former owners. He passed the process of restitution and former owners, or their successors, should return apartments or certain buildings, where people now live and will not leave those apartments and buildings. This law clearly needs to solve what the city, or municipality, local self-government, should do, in which way they should be displaced. Of course, you can't leave these people on the street, these people have to get an adequate housing solution, but this housing solution can't be in the most attractive areas like this right now, but simply where there's a possibility of a social housing and the possibility of an adequate solution to the question of these people. It's not their fault, you have an heir and everything, but you can't have those who got a solution about restitution to suffer because of what someone's saying now - I'm a protected tenant, I've lived there for 30-40 years, my parents lived there, so let my grandchildren live too. It just can't do that. What's interesting is, it's a register of buildings themselves. The unique data records on residential communities will be kept by the Agency for Economic Registers and will be made publicly available on the Agency’s website. The deadline for the establishment of a register of all residential buildings in Serbia is 12 months. Now, I'd like to tie it a little bit to that previous topic, when I said about the central contract register, about the private public partnership law. We had clearly defined deadlines in the previous law, but these deadlines, unfortunately, did not come to life, so I would simply and in this principle debate mention this topic as very, very important, so that we could all clearly look at it, because all of this that I've talked about will lead to little misunderstandings, especially for those people who pay today and who are interested in living in buildings where there is order and there will be no problems, but there will always be those who will criticize everything alive. What I wanted to ask you is, if you may not be able to answer me, one of my associates could be paying rent, or paying property taxes. You have in all local self-governments in Serbia a full price, i.e. at a full price of property tax down from about 50% if the owner of the apartment in that address lives where he pays and owns his property. If he's not being led to that address, he doesn't have that reduction. Now I'm asking, if you have a lease agreement and this tenant pays taxes, will this apartment owner automatically be a tax base reduced by 50% as if he lives here? Because, look, if you have a lease agreement, you pay taxes, that tenant pays all the obligations and the maintenance of buildings, common spaces and everything else, then it's logical that these people have a reduction tomorrow as owners of 50% apartments, as they do to those apartments where they're led in a personal card and where they can prove it in a very easy way. What is important is that in the voting day, New Serbia will support this set of laws, and I hope that this will still come to life in one real and adequate way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10230	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10231	First, I want to thank you for your discussion and for all the questions and concerns you have raised and to thank you, of course, for supporting these draft laws. Now I'm going to try to answer everything you've asked as a question. First, regarding amendments and additions to the Public Private Partnership Act, there is already a register of public contracts. So, no contract is held somewhere on the side and you can see it, as far as I know, on the public procurement portal. If we all think that at some point it's not enough, it's just a matter of capacity, we might also be able to talk to the Agency for Business Registers, but certainly these contracts exist, you can see and run the register, which is ultimately prescribed by law. Is that good? Here's a suggestion for thinking about the Business Registers Agency itself. I think and agree with you that it is very important to think always, not only about large projects, but also about the lower value of projects and local self-government, that this kind of funding is also used. It has simply proved that in this sense we have a much more competitive price, that it is much more efficient to implement a particular project and that local self-government ultimately gets what it really needs. I think, too, you're absolutely right about the information. Seriously, it is also a question in many local self-government and capacity, whether a public private partnership can really be realised from the beginning to the end. In that sense, I think that all together, the Ministry and the Commission, we should help to bring such projects to life simply, so that people can see that this is realistic and possible and that there are projects that can go into a public private partnership without a problem. As far as this second law, the Housing Act, I'm going to start with the most impressive thing, and these are private perpetrators. This law in any of its proposals, not in any of its pre-plans, and not to mention the proposal that came to the government, never had a single word, or two words, a private enforcer. There's no mention of it, and there's no possibility of them showing up under this law at all. So, no member of this law. Let me take my turn now. Building maintenance, you said yourself, all the time you were even talking about this, you mentioned a few times how we are, how careless we are, and what situations we have in buildings, and what's happening to us for a variety of reasons for at least ten or more years. Unsustaining buildings does cause a lot of damage, but the fact that in recent years, even deaths have occurred to us, and we've never moved and we've never seen how we're going to solve it, not just about who's ultimately responsible, but when there's damage and when people's lives are lost because the buildings aren't maintained, it's an even more difficult question. I'll remind you, for example, you have a situation in March 2015, that was last year, since the fall of a facade on Macedonia Street, which had no resident assembly formed, and the owners of the apartments did not report a problem with a past-to-last facade, a 15-year-old boy was injured. There are many examples that we have lived practically in previous years. So building managers can and do not have to exist if they are professional managers, but building managers as presidents of the tenants' assembly, as we used to call them, are necessary to exist. The day today, most of the buildings aren't there, just because the tenants can't agree who's who's going to gather them. At least the building was small, with a small number of tenants or a large number of tenants. When we're talking about a forced manager. Yeah, he's given by local self-government. The amount of compensation, therefore, when it comes to a forced manager or when it comes to, for example, residents who use social housing or discriminated groups or all those who cannot pay, determines exactly local self-government. Just because a forced warden wouldn't have any other price that would have made it impossible for that job to be done afterwards. Serbia's Chamber of Commerce is obliged to conduct training first. We will have in the next three to four months a sublegal act that will precisely and clearly define how long training takes, what is and who is being trained to be a manager at all, so professional manager, then, after that training of passing a certain exam and getting a license. So that part of the fee is determined by the local self-government itself, when it comes to the private manager. When it comes to a professional manager who will decide and say that he simply does not want his president, he does not want his member practically a residential community but wants a professional manager who will take care of and manage the building, in which case that price, first it is a contractual relationship between a licensed professional manager and a tenant's assembly, and in that sense they will agree on a price. The estimates we've been doing, making this bill that's been working for a year and a half and it's real, is that it's that amount between 200 and 350 dinars. It can be smaller. That's what we'll see when things start to work and when we're in real life, we'll see what those contracts are going to look like. Next, you asked who was controlling them? They are obliged, above all, to report to the household congregation. It is the tenant's assembly that will say whether she is satisfied with her professional manager or not, at any time, able to break her relationship with the professional manager. Thus, at last, the tenants themselves will determine whether they are well managed or managed by building maintenance. When you were talking about the various jobs he'd be doing. The law provides for the use of three offers. So, they have to be for each job three offers and then they have to be chosen the one that is most favourable. And again, the decision will be made in line with the priorities of the household congregation itself. It's on the tenant's records. You asked what the professional manager was interested in when we had tenants? Just, so why are we interested in whether there are tenants or no tenants, just to see who pays for the practical maintenance of one, and two who participates in the management. So, who in the tenant's congregation is going to vote for, say, a plan of what we're going to do in the next, I don't know, five, six months or a year. So, who's going to be in charge. Only from that point of view is the professional manager interested in whether he owns the apartment or he's a tenant. Only on two grounds can you observe the matter when we're talking about the tenants, or the owners. Either you can use the apartment by the right of ownership or by the basis of the lease, but the lease can be without compensation. When you talk about students, friends, relatives, etc., there must be a particular document that will say that it is a lease but without compensation, zero dinars, because it's a factual state or some other kind of lease that's a fee. Then, whoever pays for maintenance, I think that's what I answered. That's too bad, I think it's important, too. Depending on what kind of damage it is, the damage will be paid by a practically residential community or by the owner of an apartment depending on what the damage is. There are various kinds of damages that can occur. And one important thing, I think that's where you read maybe some of the omens when you said -- the central register of residential communities runs the RGZ, so the Republic Geodetic Institute, and I think that's a much better solution than some of the solutions that were previously proposed. Although it's not within the scope of this law and it doesn't treat this law at all, the cut on the assets you mentioned, those 50% reductions. If the lease is an entire apartment or an entire house, then it certainly doesn't matter whether it's a rent with a fee or no compensation. If the lease is part of the apartment or part of the house, then the IRS can talk about a reduction. I hope I answered part of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10232	Two minutes, MP Dragan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10233	I thank you, Madam Minister, for the appropriate answers. I just wanted to explain when I mentioned private perpetrators, since I mentioned the clear criminal policy you have for not maintaining buildings, it's completely realistic, and in life it will be so that either those professional managers or managers who choose the tenants themselves through their regular choir, or the household of tenants, will address private perpetrators. If you misunderstood me, the law mentions private perpetrators. Of course they're not mentioned, but I just think life will lead us to their role in these situations. Well, that's the only part where I mentioned private contractors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10234	The word has the People's Messenger Elvira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10235	Thank you. Dear Chairman, the Presidency, Madam Ministers, Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, allow me to present on behalf of the SVM-PD Group our vision of several laws. We don't have enough time to talk about everyone, and I'll first base myself on amendments and additions to the Community Labour Act. This law was passed in 2011 and well defines various municipal activities, as municipal services to meet the needs of natural and legal persons. What is significant is that the local self-government unit has the obligation to ensure adequate quality, scope, availability and continuity, as well as supervision. The main problem that has now led us to change and supplement this law is to disagree with certain sectoral laws that regulate aspects of the implementation of various municipal activities. We certainly support efforts to improve the efficiency of the quality of the provision of municipal services. What is most important and our most based is actually competition, the introduction of competitiveness of municipal workers, which implies the obligation of the local self-government unit to encourage and maintain competition for access to certain municipal activities. What we should always have firstly in mind is the protection of the rights of users of municipal products and services, i.e. consumer protection. Of course, and the next law when we talk about housing, that social category that's mentioned here. So, security and protection of the right to a municipal product and service to those categories of population, which unfortunately cannot financially monitor price harmonisation in the municipal sector with economic parameters and the introduction of subsidies. What is significant is that during the public debate on this bill certain objections have been adopted. What is most significant is that it is precisely defined which are communal activities of general interest, of general economic interest and closer defined certain municipal activities, such as urban and suburban passenger transport. What I'm going to talk about because of the problem in Subotica is the management of cemeteries and funerals, funeral work, public parking management, market management, chimney services and so on. It is precisely defined, i.e. the accepted objections related to the confidence of municipal activities. It is widely known that in Subotica there was a major problem for privates who collected a huge number of signatures and protested outside the City Hall. In fact, the problem was that the current law prescribed that the municipal activity of cemetery management could be carried out exclusively by public enterprises and companies that had a majority owner of at least 51% of the Republic of Serbia or local self-government units, and in this way were actually given a monopoly to public enterprises and this was a serious problem for these private people, because they were simply prevented from operating as business entities within this area. Private undertakers were unable to deal with communal activity, cemetery management, and funeral services at all. However, what is good, what is now in this proposal, is now the communal activity of the management of cemeteries and funeral services divided into the management of cemeteries and burial and burial activities and in this way, by this separation, funeral services are completely liberal in certain jurisdiction, both for the public and private sectors, which is extremely significant. The only key condition that someone can deal with these activities is the market principle, i.e. the principle of free competition. So these privates and companies should meet certain laws and sublaws of the prescribed criteria. We certainly welcome the fact that this way overcomes a major problem and solves it. I will mention once again that the biggest problem is the case of Subotica and we welcome this decision and the solution to this problem. Furthermore, when we talk about municipal activities, about this law, during inspection supervision in 90% of local self-government units, there is a recognized discrepancy in the provisions of this law with what is happening on the ground, or who can carry out certain municipal activities. Almost all local self-governments have established public utility companies, which are entrusted with carrying out municipal activities, supplying drinking water, cleaning and water treatment of atmospheric and waste water. What's the problem in 90% of cases, public utility companies, drinking water supplies, actually, they're operating in the inner city core, the municipal core. While in the surrounding settlements, where a water network exists, the water network is not run by public utility companies, but by local communities, groups of citizens, water cooperatives, etc., which is contrary to this law. I tried to get an answer, interpreting the provisions, how much time was actually given to local communities, or units of local self-government to correct this. As I understand it, up to about nine months, means the adoption of sublegal acts, three plus six, about nine months from now, this discrepancy, or since this is against the law, has to be resolved. What you spoke of, Madam Minister, and what we certainly welcome is that this bill has established the obligation of the unit of local self-government to constantly ask citizens, namely to make public service users satisfied with the quality of service provided by public service providers, which is certainly good. What the law provides, if citizens' responses are negative, that is, if most of them are dissatisfied with the quality of services, local self-government units can initiate a process of reviewing the work of public service perpetrators, to order them to remove certain shortcomings and, in the end of the day, a contract on trust in performance can be terminated. As far as this law is concerned, very briefly, I would like to sum up that the SVM and the Party for Democratic Action are certainly in favour of this proposal, because we support efforts to ensure quality, permanent and accessible municipal service for all citizens. For the rest of my time, I'm still gonna focus on two draft laws. First of all, the bill on housing and building maintenance. In your opening address, you said that this was actually necessary after, I would say, two decades, 20 years to finally regulate this area, actually bring together the Housing Act, the House Building Maintenance Act, and to focus on further describing what social housing is and to solve some more issues. The previous speaker, and you've talked a lot about this law, I wouldn't repeat those elements, but what's certainly significant, I live in one building, as many of us do, and I know it's hard to get the neighbors together, but what I think is the main message to the citizens, and what's already happening on the ground, regardless of what didn't exist in this law, is that really every housing unit should register, that it has its PIB, home number, current account, that it's the cleanest, smartest. I mean, so far, a lot of people have done it, and now this law requires everyone to do it and to be in a register run by a municipality whose territory is a residential community. I hope, I haven't been overly based, you have now responded in detail to the professional manager, that it will come to the fact that whoever previously was president of the House Council or the Houseowner's Assembly that they will take over the duties of the warden and that indeed the citizens will see, regardless of how irresponsible we are now, how much we pay all the other bills, and sometimes we find it hard to pay 200, 300 dinars a month for maintaining buildings and joint rooms, that citizens will realize how important it is and that the neighbours will be able to agree together what is most important for this apartment building, or for the land on which it is located. It is extremely good that this bill promotes building management. Like I said, I found that keeping a unique record would be in the Republic Geodetic Institute. So it's a significant obligation to appoint a manager. Of course, there is a possibility, for those who can't agree, setting up a professional manager, but after the adoption of sublegal acts, we'll see under what conditions he has to answer and how to obtain a license. You also talked about social housing, i.e. housing support, which is extremely important and very well regulated in this proposal. So it's specifically described the concept of housing support, basic principles, housing support users, types of housing support that can be, both renting apartments, shopping, other way of acquiring property rights over the apartment or family home, that is, improving housing conditions, extremely important assistance for the law of the apartment or family home and housing care, the procedure of granting housing support and the way to achieve it. What I must certainly say as a woman is that certain provisions regulate the housing of victims of domestic violence, i.e. victims of violence in partnership relations, which is actually the result of the harmonisation of this law with the Istanbul Convention, which is certainly extremely significant, as well as the possibility of renting an apartment in public property, under conditions of non-profit lease on a maximum of five years or subsidisation of the rent of an apartment etc. What we talked about a little bit, and it's common knowledge that there are a lot of amendments to this bill, because there are a lot of objections, is this famous member of 153 that you were talking about earlier. The draft law on housing and maintenance of buildings stipulates that the selected, appointed and employed persons of the beneficiary of the state-owned assets, i.e. officials, have the right to purchase an apartment in public property, the purchase they use on the basis of a lease contract for a specified period of time, which they have received on the basis of a regulation on the resolution of the housing needs of the selected, appointed and employees of the State-owned users. It is further established that the purchase price of that apartment is determined by the units of local self-government at the level of the market value of the apartment in such a way as to determine the value of the immovable property tax procedure. So, the point is that the bill does not allow anyone, and at least the officials of the state to come to the apartment in any other way, except by law, but since the media has been speculating and you have made certain statements that there will be an amendment to the government, whether this member will be deleted, whether he remains in the law, it would not be bad for you to now clarify this issue if possible. And indeed, the remaining few minutes, I will try to talk a little bit more about the Law on Public-private Partnership and concessions, i.e. the proposed amendments and additions to this law. As you pointed out, this law was passed five years ago, so in 2011, it was small changes, they are now a little bit more serious, it is necessary to improve certain provisions of this law and to introduce better control of financial influences, as well as a famous alignment with international standards and best international practice. The proposal is still not fully in line with EU directives, because the deadline for full harmonisation is somewhere at the end of next year. Of course, we talked about this law and welcomed it, voted for its adoption in 2011, and since it is a law that provides a legal basis for establishing a partnership between the public sector on the one hand and the private sector on the other, and the primary goal is to meet the needs of the population. In fact, quality and standard of services and works are required in the interests of the public, users of services, adequate security of the public partner's interest, and this law, as you pointed out, was first known because of the need to build new infrastructure, by investing goods in general use, as well as by providing services of general interest. One of the basic reasons why it was necessary to pass this law is to increase demand for private sources of funding for these projects. The three main objectives are therefore building public infrastructure and providing services in the public interest, providing quality services of public importance, as well as attracting domestic and foreign private investors and banks for financing, co-financing, and managing projects of general interest. However, what has happened in the past five years, since the adoption of this law, the changes so far, that we have seen that the practice so far in the application of this law has shown that the Institute of Public-private Partnership is not being used enough, although it has a number of advantages. Since its adoption, projects have been implemented for the past five years in urban, suburban transport of passengers, public lighting, municipal waste collection, heat production using renewable energy sources and the like. It is simply, indeed, good that we are now bringing a slightly greater change and complementarity, the objectives of budget protection, both the republican and local, and the attraction of private investment, because, indeed, the model of public-private partnership reduces labour costs, as private ones take over part of the employees and the total costs for those employees based on the concessions they receive, reduces the cost of public sector work. Through a public-private partnership, it strives to attract additional resources and to provide, for example, 5 to 50 years a guaranteed service for citizens a private partner for a specific fee much more efficient and economical this type of service. The changes and additions allow a public-private partnership with elements of the concession, that public bodies can participate, I think this is the most significant change, meaning municipalities, public enterprises, cities and others. What I must also point out is that the actual adoption of amendments to the Law on PPP and concessions is foreseen, in the Action Plan for the implementation of the National Anti-Corruption Strategy, which was adopted for the period from 2013 to 2018, as well as the Action Plan for Chapter 23 of the negotiations with the EU. One of the declared objectives of the National Anti-Corruption Strategy and the Action Plan, i.e. when setting the Action Plan for Chapter 23, the specific part relating to the fight against corruption, is to eliminate the risk of corruption under the regulations governed by this particular area, the area of public-private partnership and their consistent application. As the European Commission Report so-called "Progress Report" on Serbia's progress in European integration processes, the 2016 Enlargement Strategy stressed that corruption is still one of the biggest problems spread. A serious problem, widespread, in many different areas, in the field of fighting corruption, has not yet been met even last year's recommendations from the European Commission. There is little progress, there is almost no progress in procedures and judgments against corruption. The anti-corruption strategy, unfortunately, still does not bring the expected results. The effort to curb corruption has yet to produce tangible results and this is one step towards it. Institutional mechanisms, unfortunately, aren't working yet. We therefore believe that it is really necessary, changes are necessary, but what is even more important we must pay attention to the application of certain provisions of this law to adequate implementation. I am pleased that you specifically mentioned the register of public contracts, one of the most significant items, because indeed all contracts, and those who can be reviewed, those who are a public-private partnership and others. It is important to establish effective supervision of the performance of the contractual obligations of the private partner and to apply the anti-corruption mechanisms of the Public-private Partnership Act, but to amend the legal position and competence of the Commission for a PPP. Let me get this straight. And this law provides for better control of public-private partnership projects and compliance with international standards and best practice, and therefore we support it, as well as other proposals on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10236	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10237	Thank you for your discussion. I think it's very important that a few things, especially, perhaps, explain them further, because I think they're very important. When it comes to the Law on Community Works, it is very important to have a part that refers to funeral services. Otherwise, before that, this law was in public debate from 27 November to 17 December 2015 as a housing law, etc., and in a later major joint public debate in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, we consulted for certain, I would say, topics, parts of the law for which there were a lot of comments, including comments on funeral services and the European Commission, and therefore we made a distinction between the funeral process itself and the funeral work. In the sense that funerals can also be attended by privates, by the local self-government itself. So in that sense, we tried to balance it out. As far as funeral work is concerned, whether it's a transport, a freezer, etc., then it'll only determine the market. We think that, in this sense, we have managed to make a certain relationship that is exactly one and the other, first and foremost, private undertakers, of which we have had a lot of comments in this particular area, to find a common solution, which, first and foremost, we will have a quality, but also take care of the whole process. In the case of inspection supervision, in general the work of inspection, this law is much more detailed, precisely defined, itself defined municipal activity, and in which way, it is much more precisely defined than in one previous law. We have, of course, certain situations that we are facing and that we need to find a solution in the next period. For example, the issue of plumbing, and what often exists in certain parts of Serbia today, which is that the local community, with its own self-indulgence, was people building water lines, etc., at the same time now, for example. Communal businesses do not want to accept these water lines into their system, and then we have a situation that no one can control them properly, and that is so important for the health and life of citizens. It's something we need to find a solution with local self-governments, because first of all, the local community is not even a legal person who can deal with it without talking about what's most important, which is the quality of service, the safety of people's health. Also, around the very House and those members that we have accepted the amendment of our parliamentary group, so members 152, 153 and 154 will certainly not be in the House Bill. The idea was, or intention was to really enable and help those who, or families of those who were on the battlefields and who had lost their lives or were wounded. However, my view was that it was not in the right way, adequately defined. We have 170 such situations and it will have to be regulated in another way. So these three members of the law certainly won't be in the Housing Act. When you mentioned professional managers, just one piece of information, they now, for example, They already exist in Novi Sad, somewhere between 50% and 60% of residential buildings have managers. We are now what exists, practically, introduced into the system itself and into the law. That price I mentioned and mentioned, it is just like that. from what we see in Sam New Sad, then we've run some tests. The moment the market appears across Serbia's territory, it is likely that the price can be lower, when we talk about the compensation that professional managers themselves will receive. It's raining on you again at the discussion, if I skipped something, you'll ask me further.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10238	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10239	Dear citizens of Serbia who follow this more than an interesting and complex debate, respected fellow Members of the People, helps everyone, I would like first of all to say, and to say, of course, that in this set of proposed laws that we are discussing at one point in the agenda in a single search where we are discussing eight completely different laws, Davery will, as our colleagues like to say, advance MPs, vote in the day of voting for two laws that we consider important and important, and that they should be passed. The first is the law on the transport of dangerous goods, which seriously treats this important matter, and the second is the law on confirming an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China on visa waiver. So these two laws have absolutely our support, because we think they are absolutely in the interest of the citizens of Serbia, and here's why. In fact, the Dvori support the adoption of legislation that will regulate the transport of dangerous goods in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, not only because it is an international obligation or the need to bring the legal framework into line with Brussels requirements, but only because of the security and health of all Serbian citizens, as well as environmental protection and domestic economy. We believe that such a law must be passed much earlier, as well as that a question of the responsibility of concrete bodies and officials for non-application of applicable laws should be asked, as stated in the reasoning of the draft law. We believe that the state must strengthen its role in this area, both by more precise provisions and by stricter criminal policies in the area of commercial offences and violations in the transport of dangerous goods. Also, we note that the traffic infrastructure in Serbia is in poor condition, especially the railway network, because we are witnessing a large number of emergency events and incidents in transporting dangerous goods. This danger also strengthens the fact that a good part of the rail network is located in populated areas, especially in large cities. The proposed law does not regulate inspection and inspection of railway networks anywhere, as well as which number of wagons can safely pass through populated areas. A particular problem is whether it is necessary to allow the compositions of dangerous goods to pass through the city of Belgrade. So, we wanted here, of course, constructively supporting the law in principle to point out these few things to you to pay extra attention, especially when it comes to inspection supervision and any kind of tightening of criminal policy regarding the transport of dangerous goods. Of course, we also support the law confirming the Agreement between the Government of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China on visa waiver. We believe that turning to geopolitical alternatives, such as strategic co-operation with Russia or China, is a big and important thing for Serbia's foreign political orientation, and whenever I say this without an alternative path for Serbia to the EU, we will support it. So, we've had enough blackmail from Brussels, the dictatorship from the EU, and those empty stories that the West is the only side of the world, as you've realized, after many years, the West is not the only side of the world, there's the East, the North, the South, and here, of course, that we're doing what we've always said, that we're going to support every turn of Serbia towards other strategic partners who haven't bombed us, who aren't taking us away from KIM, who aren't economically blackmailing us and not exploiting us, but with whom we're currently benefiting from strategic co-operation, whether it's political, economic, or military security co-operation, besides the Russian Federation, of course, and the People's Republic of China is one such state. So that would be all we can support you, and now to see what you're up to in some other legal solutions, which, of course, are problematic on a number of grounds, and which are talking about a new wave of interference in certain things, which are, of course, dictatorships from Brussels, which are problematic from the corner of the interest of Serbian citizens. So our logic is the interest of the citizens of Serbia, where you respect the interest of Serbian citizens, regardless of we are your angry opposition, you will always have support, but where you work against the interests of Serbian citizens, we must, of course, be a fierce opposition. Here, specifically the law that you are proposing here and which we are discussing today, you are bringing in without any public debate. So we're talking about things that are of the highest public interest, and for such things you don't even allow public debate. So, I understand that everything that exists in Serbia's legislative action you must comply with EU standards, but I remind you, more importantly than compliance with EU standards, is a alignment with the interests of Serbian citizens. means more important than taking care of the EU and the Central Committee in Brussels, which issue directives, is what the citizens of Serbia say. Serbian citizens had no opportunity to say anything because there was no public debate. So if there's no public debate, then we don't know what public interest is. Of course, how you determine public interest. For you, the public interest is what the bosses of Brussels tell you. So, as Brussels sends through a college democracy directive in the morning to the government of the Republic of Serbia, that's how you write the laws. Often and literally translate laws from the EU, not harmonising them with Serbia's public interest, with the public interest of Serbian citizens, with our national state and economic interests. It is already one feature that is not an invention of the SNS, since the DOS regime that triggered this devastating path of Serbia to the EU, and you advances are only the highlight of this DOS policy, Eurofanatism. You're practically at this point, I hereby pronounce you the biggest Eurofanatics in all of Europe. What I'm going to say next from one proposal to another is the following, communal action, I think it's more than the adoption of amendments and the addition of the Law on municipal activity to carry out a final analysis of the impact and quality of public service providers. Are we finally going to find out once in Serbia, those who do communal work, do they do them right? Are our utility companies doing well, are our communal inspections doing well, is our police doing well in this part of the job? So you're going to change and supplement the law before you've done an analysis of the existing quality of services in the sphere of municipal activity. Of course, here you also open space for something that is potentially a huge danger, which is the privatisation of municipal enterprises in Serbia and the remaining natural resources of our public goods which and in this way you are predicting, can be privatized in perspective. So, you're going to start privatizing water lines, you're going to put everything on sale, and just this little bit that's left so far, and if you didn't give it to strangers, I assume you're planning it in the next period of SNS, because SNS is nothing more than a direct component of the IMF, the World Bank, the Central Committee of Brussels and NATO Pact. So here you serve the interests of Western centres of power, and it is obvious that you must return what the EU has congratulated you on winning Tomislav Nikolic three hours before the polls close in the second round of the 2012 presidential elections. Now, upon payment, Mr. Chairman, your obligations are due when you come to power. Here, let me make a point. The Airport Management Act, here's a simple question for advanced economic logic, you claim to be publicly boasting that the number of passengers at the "Nikola Tesla" airport has increased, as the airport has become increasingly profitable, and then what do you do, you sell that airport. Who in the world can explain the logic of selling the airport that brings profits? Of course, there's no logic here, of course it's some of your deals with who knows what partners, who knows what logic, who knows what debts and tails you have toward those who brought you into power. So, for five years, you have been through the pockets of Serbian citizens and through the interest of the Serbian state paying debts to those who brought you to power in 2012. So it's time to stop that. You cannot pay your debts through the state of Serbia. What else is the big problem with the Airport Management Act? The big problem is so-called. Mixed airports. This means airports that are both civil and military. You did the right thing there when you said that the concession could not be given by airports that function within the Ministry of Defence, but also by these mixed airports have a military function, therefore, a function within the Serbian state's security system. What do we say? We say that even mixed airports cannot be awarded in any way in a concession and we have provided for certain amendments and envisaged them. So we call on you, in the interest of the security of the Serbian state and the smooth functioning of the Serbian Army, not to allow private persons, therefore, to have anyone, and especially someone on the side, outside of this country, to have an impact on the work of mixed airports that are both in military function. Of course, in the end we come to the most interesting point of the House and Building Maintenance Act. Since everything else is arranged in Serbia, because Serbia is booming, because the situation is great both in the economy and in agriculture, and the rule of law works, and the courts are doing great, and everything is so perfectly organized, that you now have nothing else to do, but have decided to break into our buildings and to arrange how we will live in our buildings where we live. So this kind of your involvement in privacy, in housing rights and collective rights of our tenants in buildings tells us that you just want to get involved and what's not your job. I guess if we go with this logic of yours, all the tenants of the Serbian buildings will only get new costs to pay, and it doesn't matter at all who can pay anything at all, if they can't pay anything. Future managers or professional managers would be a great place for the new party recruitment of SNS personnel. Since you hired them by the entire state administration, here you are, now you have nothing new to come up with, so you've come up with professional managers to hire party SNS personnel around our buildings. Of course, there are certain housing communities that can also come up with credit borrowing with two-thirds of the vote. So they can commit someone to a credit obligation without even giving consent to that kind of thing. Also, investment maintenance as some kind of new taxation, which will be determined by local self-government. So local self-government will now come up with a new tax through investment building maintenance, again without the consent of all tenants. Of course I don't see any government taking over from the cost. Communal companies, which we are constantly paying and which have never done anything for our buildings, we do not see them taking on any duties in editing and maintaining buildings. There's two good things. The first is the rules of the owner, which I hope all of us apartment owners will use to determine how we function in our building, not that you of the SNS determine how we function in our buildings. So, thank you for that provision on the rules of the owner, which I hope we can play your law which you think determines how we should live, work and function in our buildings. Another thing is housing support, which I hope will really end up as a form of support measures for the socially most vulnerable families, especially families who are overindebted, who are single, who do not have any employees, who, for example, have more children, etc., and have not solved the housing issue, counting young couples. So these two items still have little hope that this law can be shifted in some good direction in relation to the one you imagined. In that sense, I have for you an amendment that I think is crucial to the success of this law of yours, as you have imagined it. So, when we in the residential communities, in the former parliaments of tenants in buildings across Serbia, are not able to agree, we do not want to agree on who will be our manager in our residential community, I suggest that the professional manager of all buildings in Serbia be Alexander Vucic, since he has shown exceptional capacity to be minister in all ministries, to be the president of all municipalities, the mayor of all cities. I think he has time and has the capacity to be a professional manager in all the buildings in Serbia. So I would ask that such an amendment be made, because I really don't see a better solution than Alexander Vukic, because such a superman as we have received in the image of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia has really not been seen in any cartoons so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10240	The breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10241	Thank you, Chairman. I'm using the right to point out the violation of article 107, the dignity of parliament. You had to react there, because it is unworthy that someone who is an authorised representative would stand up and thus deglantly deceive the public and the entire assembly, and he did not even read the legislative proposals, because if he did, he would not lie to the entire public that the airport was being sold, but the airport could, or could manage the concession. (Maria Janjušević: It's not neck, it's neck. Well, it's neither neck nor neck, but you don't know anything about it. You know, the point is not to learn something by heart and then deceive the public and try to demagogue it. Just because someone gave you a nice comb and someone dressed you up and someone wrote you his opinion that you show as your own, that doesn't mean that you can insult the dignity of Parliament and the entire people by lying to him. I would really ask you to respond in the future, for we will respond to such lies every time in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10242	Thank you. As you can see, several times I tried to tell Mr. Obradovic to return to the agenda. I'm really worried about his health, but I can't help him here. Do you want the National Assembly to declare in the voting day? (Vladimir Djukanovic: No. ) The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10243	First, I understand, of course, that Presidential candidate Dweri is giving a presidential speech, but I would like us to really get back to the laws themselves. Also, from everything you've said, I'd say you actually support all these laws, but somewhere you're embarrassed to say it. Okay, I can understand that, too. First, when you talk about the laws that you will officially support, then I need to inform you that the Transport of Goods Act has transposed all the directives of both the European Parliament and the Council of Europe, and that is why I am very glad that you are actually joining this flock of Eurofanatics, as you call us, because this law is really important for the transport of dangerous goods. You don't have the right information, unfortunately. Because of this and above all because of the citizens of Serbia, when you talk about our traffic infrastructure being bad, then you should know that in traffic infrastructure, besides rail traffic, are both road and water and air traffic. By all world and international criteria, far from being so bad. When you talk about transporting dangerous goods, yes, we are, I would say, a government that finally started moving out after 20 years. A rail that passes through the centre of Nis for freight traffic, precisely to avoid transporting dangerous cargo, or dangerous goods through the city center. Secondly, I think it is very important that I tell you that there is not a single central facility in any state that dictates the government of the Republic of Serbia what is the public interest, nor Brussels, nor Moscow, nor Beijing, nor Washington, but this government is working in the interests of the citizens of Serbia. All the laws that are in front of MPs and Serbian citizens today are laws that introduce a certain order, because it is important that we have order in the country in which we live. I also think that when you talk about privacy interference, housing law, etc., no, we just need to take care and maintain our buildings, so that no child gets hurt. So that's the essence of the housing law, because obviously we haven't been able to do it the right way in the past 20 years. When you say these laws haven't passed a public debate, you're primarily telling the truth. The housing law passed public debates: Belgrade on November 18, 2015, Novi Sad 20th, Vrsac 25th, November 27th, Čačak 30th, your Cačak, I hope you were, Nis 4th December, Valjevo 7th December. Ultimately, the last public debate was in Serbia's Chamber of Commerce. All that were the comments of all the institutions, the physical faces, we sat down, talked, and all that we could put into those laws really, that the laws would be complete, because when we all agreed about them, then we would, of course, implement them even better. Then, by mistake you expressed yourself, just to inform you, it's not "owner's rules" but it's "owner's rules" and it's right through it, and I'm glad you like it, because it also means, because in one other part it's very important for this law, you really support this law. These are the shortest lines I've ever wanted to answer. Everything else really represents your election speech, so I wouldn't answer that. (Bosko Obradovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10244	You have no right to a replica, Mr. Radovic. (Bosko Obradovic: She mentioned me. No, she didn't say at any time. (Bosko Obradovic: Look at the stenogram, Mr. Chairman. I've heard well. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Ask for a word. Marija Janjušević: Thank you, Chairman. I suggest a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a member of the 27th and a member of the 100th. If you want to argue, or to have a debate with the MPs, you need to get down to the benches of the MPs. Secondly, for several days in a row, you've been silenced by the Members of the Dvora and twisting our words and not representing it properly. Give your sentence the way you think of it. Now everyone heard the minister say "Dovri candidate" and comment on the presidential campaign. Here, let her herself say whether or not she is, so she'll help you decide whether you're going to give the replica or not. I understand fear, I understand your anxiety, I understand that you have no shame or shame, but please some basic, basic level of behavior. Our citizens don't deserve this. Thank you. Let me answer that. First of all, as for the reminders, my colleague, I've been given more notice than I've said, so don't pay any respects to me. I got more than I said. I don't see where I was wrong and I broke Article 100. The Rules of Procedure, because I did not comply with Mr. Obradovic, (Maria Janjušević: You only pleaded to his right. ) This was answered by my colleague Djukanovic in his advertising of the Rules of Procedure. I don't see anything bad that would have the right to give someone a replica, if someone said "presidential candidate Dveri" or if he said "that's your election speech". So, on the basis of Article 104(3), I don't see anything offensive. (Bosko Obradović: Misreading. I think the minister interpreted you well, although that's not easy. Although it is not easy for someone to interpret you well, it is done by counterpart Mihajlovic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10246	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advocating Article 109 regarding Articles 103 and 106. (The MPs of the DS are leaving the hall. Look, just so this gymnastics exercise is over, I'll go on. Here, that Mr. Eurolove, since he's a little older man, is late, to allow him this morning's exercise. (President: Continue according to the Rules of Procedure, counterpart Risticevic. ) So, Mr. Chairman, Article 109. - a reminder is given to a folk MP who, among other things, throws away, uses offensive words, etc. If someone says we have no shame or shame, etc., I see it as an insult, regardless of what colleagues who are here with the help of Janko Veselinovic and the gay activist have gotten hold of this parliament, so they may not know enough proposition because they think they're allowed to do so. I think you still have to react and give notices to those MPs who speak in a very offensive way about us, and on the other hand, while you interpret that the Rules of Procedure have not been broken, this same MP is permanently throwing away, therefore, and in violation of the Rules of Procedure again. I don't do it, and so I ask that from time to time, I don't ask you to do it this time, no matter what favors you to the opposition, from time to time to take advantage of your powers and make a note, if this is, of course, repeated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10247	My colleague Rističević, I thought that without what you said, without shame or shame, it was something like that that was meant for me. They can't insult me, believe me. So I don't think I've violated Article 109. Rules of Procedure. (Bosko Obradovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10248	Mr. Chairman, Article 104 of Article 107 clearly speaks of the dignity of the National Assembly and the right to replication. If you please, I would remind you that when someone in their presentation at the National Assembly session or is insultingly expressing himself about the MP or, in my case, incorrectly interprets his exposure, I have never said "I support all the laws that are proposed here," I said that the Davery will support two of the eight laws in a single search, so I am misread and I have the right to a replica of another thing that also shows up is the dignity of the National Assembly, which you are violating as chairman of the National Assembly at this time, by saying to my assembly, to debate, to comment on my health. So, Mr. Chairman, I'm a very tolerated man, but I have a very low tolerance for injustice. Yesterday we haven't received a replica, and we've been called almost in all the speeches of the government's representatives. Today you begin again with the same principle that you do not give the right to a replica and you still care about my health. I would remind you that in the past few days I have been called "a Kaphan singer from the Ibar highway", "a semi-literate bastard", "a bully who beats a woman", that I've cursed a mother and a dead father, and I've never done that in my life, and now, at the end of all that, as chairman, spice it all up by adjudicating to my health. So where is the end of the insults by the ruling coalition? If you have arguments, answer the arguments. The minister answered. Give me a chance to answer her. She didn't insult me. You insulted me. Give me the right to respond to the minister's misreading of my exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10249	Thank you. I don't think I've violated the Rules of Procedure of those provisions you've advertised, especially regarding Article 104. I think the minister understood you very well, although that's not easy. Let's move on. We're going back to work. (Bosko Obradovic: How about I plead an injury? ) The National Assembly will express itself on the violation of the Rules of Procedure in the day of the vote. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10250	Ladies and gentlemen, friends and comrades, the Honorable Madam Minister of Associates, I will apologize in advance if the fear of some of the former comes forward and I forget and miss or get confused, although it can hardly happen because a man here should be confused only when he hears serious arguments. To the unserious arguments that arise obviously from the debates that have been well done so widely that they have become bar debates about these laws, because such conclusions and comments can only be heard from such conditions that can be debated and debated. But it's not appropriate for this home anyway, so there's nothing special to look forward to. I'm going to talk about a few laws on this occasion. Obviously, we had completely diametrically opposite attitudes with regard to some previous speakers, especially when it comes to the Airport Law. This law is very important and it is very good that the Ministry recognized the need to pass this law because, simply by this law, it defines the activity of airport management as an activity of general interest. Legally speaking, this is a basic prerequisite for a public-private partnership and concessions at all, whether or not this country has an interest in certain airports, whether private persons have interests or do not have to invest through public-private partnerships and concessions, revitalise them and put them into office. Legally speaking, this is a basic prerequisite for a public-private partnership and concessions at all, whether or not this country has an interest in certain airports, whether private persons have an interest or not, through a public-private partnership agreement and concessions, investment, revitalising and putting them into office. It is good that the state is not trying to enter all segments of the economy and it is good that the conditions are met that by expanding the workload, by improving the conditions for the use of airports that are not so little in Serbia, we help develop not only the business but also the tourism activity of certain areas. Let us not forget that the Zlatibor region, certainly has a great interest in revitalising and putting into full function of the "Ponikave" Airport, how much the Kopalnik can get on its status and rating of exploitation if it is put into office at the Ships Airport and that I do not bid here and list what is obvious, only the ministry has recognised, created the basis and very clearly defined the procedure through which a public private partnership contract can be reached, and it has certainly led to the fact that no interest in the state of the Republic of Serbia, and no strategic military interest cannot be jeopardised. Among other things, all the airports were, so they were just as defined exclusively as civilians in some, God forbid, situations, exactly military-strategic facilities, so I think it's completely pointless to take this subject. It was high time to introduce order and discipline in the maintenance of residential buildings. In the way it will be done and done, because, unfortunately, unlike a number of well-organised housing congregations, what has been called the president so far, people who have been very responsible for the properties they have, both in their apartments and in the common areas of the building, unfortunately, have shown that in many cases we are careless, unorganized, and even in the opportunity that the boast of one individual in the entire building alone is at stake in the investment maintenance of the entire building. This law is just creating clearly precise preconditions to prevent such a thing in the future. I don't see that any interference in someone's internal housing issue is that the issue of maintenance of residential buildings is brought to one level that must provide the possibility that everyone's property is equally and adequately protected. I think a serious part of the burden here is important, Ministry, I won't say transfer, but it puts in charge of local self-government. Not only does it put them in charge, but it simply allows local self-governments that have so far been hampered in that part that they simply have much more space and opportunities when it comes to defining certain things that are important for the functioning of the building. So, for example, in Article 76 of this law, it is proposed that the question so-called the general home order is defined by local self-government. This does not in any way affect the right of the owner of the apartment building that, if they want to, they regulate domestic order issues through the rules of the owner in an even more specific way. But the issue of domestic order is the question of local self-government precisely because any local self-government can take a much better look at this microplan than what is acceptable for certain areas of the city and what is unacceptable. The issue of home order should precisely create an opportunity to prevent individuals who do so today from putting up with all the other tenants in the building to suffer for it. Whether they're turning housing jobs into business premises, into business rooms, either by keeping cafes that work all night long and obstructing normal life and functioning where it's not necessary, so I have to say, and that some tenants don't care about their neighbors, with all due respect to me as an animal and dog lover and all that, not to say that they've made their apartments into puppies, but there's even something happening around that, that they're endangering the building, and they're jeopardizing the rest of the tenants. All of this can be prescribed at the level of local self-government, and that will then create the possibility and obligation of a municipal inspection to act in accordance with the powers that this law gives him, to monitor and control the full implementation of all of this. The issue of the residential community, as it is now called, is the question of the possibility that the building itself will be organised voluntarily and chose by its manager. It's normal that if the living community wants it itself, it can hire a professional manager, but it's her right and not her obligation. What is good and news in this law is the introduction of a forced manager with limited duration where the living community will not or does not want to be organised. It is very important that it is fully controlled and it is good that it is downgraded to the level of the local community which now has the obligation to register everything that is related to the question of the residential community and ensure that both the FIB and the checks of all papers and the functioning of the housing community are provided. Here, the housing community, in fact, in certain things gets legal status, which gives it the opportunity to conclude appropriate maintenance contracts that are very clearly defined here, as urgent, current and investment and thus simply fully detailed where and how we will have to go further and how we will have to act, to be responsible for ourselves, but also to be responsible for our neighbours as well as for the passersby. You know, it was inadmissible that due to the legal provisions of whoever lives downstairs doesn't care what the roof leaks. That whoever lives downstairs doesn't care if the elevator is held regardless of his neighbor living on the tenth floor. It's just that these things here are going to be much more functional and much faster solved. Obviously, there is a time when buildings and all tenants themselves will have to be far more interested in the energy efficiency of residential buildings, and it simply, through these measures, can be implemented and here it is fully defined what a residential community should do, what local self-government should do and to what extent it can help from different levels and republics, but also local communities. What can be a problem here is a very specific one, which is that city municipalities are not recognised in the Constitution that is valid, do not clearly have their position defined, but then the city of Belgrade as such will have to assume much more obligations on itself when it comes to implementing this law in relation to municipalities that are within the city of Belgrade. I want to point out the next thing that is very important, which is the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China. It is absolutely unnecessary to say how important this agreement is and what we can expect from it, but what is most important in all this is in fact recognition of the foreign policy led by the Government of the Republic of Serbia from one of the largest countries and the most powerful countries in the world. If one China knew that it recognized the respect it had for its size, its strength and its friendship with Serbia, Serbia indicated and reciprocated the same respect regardless of the diversity in size, strength, position of economy, then it only shows that the correct way in which this government is heading international politics is. For this reason, we expect that exactly the procedure that the prime minister did on Monday, leaving Brussels after inappropriate, rude and rude blackmails set out in the Republic of Croatia, will bring and bear fruit, because they simply will not respect anyone unless they respect themselves. What the Republic Government did on Monday is of great importance to all respect. Where good luck that previous governments have behaved in this way, previous prime ministers. Perhaps the position of citizens, or of the Serb minority in Croatia today would be much better and much more favourable than at this point, if they had acted differently and acted differently at the time Croatia joined the EU. In any case, I'm sure this government can, can and wants to correct all gaps from earlier periods, but it has to be put up upright and have a precisely measured and clearly defined policy in everything. In the voting day, we will support all these proposals and thank you for recognising all these key elements that need to be better defined through these laws and which will be much more precise in the conduct and behaviour of many areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10251	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10252	Thank you very much, not only for supporting the bill, but for understanding the law, and especially for keeping it in part of the housing law that you mentioned, which is home order. In Article 76, that is the name, therefore, of the household order. We have been getting a lot of comments from Serbian citizens for some time now that there are problems relating to domestic order in residential buildings and buildings. That is why, and on the basis of all their complaints, a practical member of this 76th law, who says that local self-government is the one who will make a document that will allow the owners of the apartments to have peace, more specifically not to disturb their peace in the use of apartments. Second thing I want to say is, it's about the Airport Act. Our interest, the government's interest is to try to put all airports into operation. We did it with Nis Airport, we are working to establish a contractual relationship between the Ministry of Defence and the Business Society of Serbia's airports, related to the airport in the Kingdom. We are trying, which is not simple, to the airport "Poniks", because it really takes a lot to invest so that the airport can function in the right way. We are like the Government, above all the airport "Nikola Tesla" has invested 50 million to create, to practically take care of the building itself and to work on the fence at the airport "Ponika", but much more is needed around the access road and all that. However, there are still certain, of course, riot traffic can be seen at Ponikva airport, but it is far from what is our interest. That's why it's been formed, let's say, the Serbian airport company to try all these airports to help, because we are aware that if one of our strategic goals and development of tourism is, etc., then it's our interest that all these small airports function normally. So, thank you again for voting for the drafts of these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10253	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10254	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, here we have today on the agenda eight draft laws of which three agreements and all are under emergency procedure. Indeed, while respecting that you held a number of public debates, I have to ask – why is the practice of the previous term of adoption of the law under urgent procedure still continuing? So this is saying that we can't have a quality debate here in this house on legal proposals, especially if you unite within one point of eight different laws. So it just seems to meet the form to adopt the laws. What happened in the previous session will happen to us, that half of all the laws adopted by an emergency procedure have been restored to re-adjustment or re-changes and additions of the law. So that's something I don't see bringing any improvement to the citizens of Serbia and I don't know why this practice continues. On the other hand, you're saying here today that it's the harmonisation of laws with European laws, standards and procedures. I don't mind that, and I think that we should regulate our society and appreciate and establish European values here, but without the real reform of the public sector and public enterprises, which you haven't managed in five years to implement here... So that's the only thing you promised and said you'd do, if we're talking about the area of the public sector economy. You failed in five years to reform neither "Srbigas", nor "The Railways", or EPS. We saw in the budget how much Serbian citizens' funds are throwing at those losers. Also, there is no system of institutions in the Republic of Serbia, there are no established institutions so that we can apply these laws that we adopt. The problem is that the laws that are adopted don't apply in the end. Everything we're trying to do seems to me like we want to plant bananas in Serbia. We want to adopt European laws, and we do not have a system of institutions that will succeed in implementing these laws. Now you have one of the laws on the agenda – the Law on Community Works. In 2012, the Community Labour Act was adopted. One of the things that is defined here, which I support, is that all the water pipelines in Serbia must have a headmaster, must be within a public enterprise or another company, not as it was the case for them to be within the local communities, managed by various groups of citizens. Tell me, where did this take place in Serbia? How many cases are there? I'll tell you that countless water lines in Serbia remain in completely unsolved status. So, from 2012 to 2017, this problem has not been solved. We now have new responsibilities for the Community Labour Act. There are a lot of good things in these amendments to the law, but it is a question of whether someone will manage to implement it, especially if we are talking about units of local self-government that have no capacity, above all, because of limited financial resources. We have continued the trend of increasing the jurisdiction of local self-government, and the confiscation of funds to municipalities, as seen in the last budget and the Law on the financing of local self-government units, where you again intervened in taking 4.8 billion pairs of cities and municipalities with the reason of fiscal consolidation. So that's proof that we actually want to achieve something, and we don't have the capacity and we don't have the institutions built, we don't have a reformed system, and that's what we need to do to get those laws into practice before we pass them. As far as the Housing Act is concerned, we have here in this bill two laws. One is the Housing Act, and the other is the Housebuilding Act. Is there a need to make some changes here? Yes, I should, but I haven't heard an answer about an article from you here. 153 and 154 who treat the possibility of buying apartments in public property by state officials. You said it was going to be a change of law. I didn't see if there was an amendment that you'd kick those members out, when the public rebelled over the fact that under privileged conditions someone would be able to buy apartments. I ask: will it remain in the law, as we have received in the material, or will it change? As for professional managers, every building and every household of tenants should have their own manager, however, another question opens here. First, Serbian citizens and residents will have to finance from their pockets, as far as I have seen, between 10,000 and 15,000 new employees in Serbia. It is probably one of the measures for employment in Serbia, where you want to hire some workers out of the pockets of Serbian citizens. They're actually going to be functionors, because in one part of the law it's said, please look, they're functionators. I ask you - will these people submit reports to the Anti-Corruption Agency, as well as other officials who submit? Maybe it's a mistake and we've submitted amendments to that part, so let's see who these managers or professional managers are to be delegated to local self-government units. On the other hand, I fear that these are not paid political officials, who will also play a role and some other jobs during the election campaign, which is not something we have not already met with, so that and how this is a question that we should talk about. Of course, it mentions that they will also list home ownership numbers, i.e. tenants, as well as tenants, and the serious question is, to what end someone will process and collect home numbers of people living in apartments. Therefore, this is still the continuation of your government's policy to solve problems by taking money from citizens and all working on the burden of citizens, which best reflects the 2017 budget and the reduced deficit on the burden of pensioners, on the burden of employees, on the burden of many other things concerning the citizens of Serbia and their economic situation. I'm telling you there's no one left to take. Citizens are so poor in Serbia, and in the last five years especially, and it has not been a better situation before, but you continue this trend on the back of citizens you want to promote your policy and talk about the successes of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. As far as the PPP Commission is concerned, I support this and I think that Serbia should make a greater contribution in this part. But, from the formation of the Commission to give an opinion on public-private partnerships, if I'm not wrong between 30 and 40 positive opinions, it's total, and I'm interested in how much such projects have been realised in Serbia, because it wasn't done enough intensively, but maybe it shouldn't have, since Aleksandar Vukic says he's building more than Tito, that more highways will build than the Germans, so maybe he doesn't need public-private partnerships, but he can do it himself, probably in some familiar ways. As far as the Airport Law is concerned, I also have a few very important questions. The government of the Republic of Serbia adopted a decision on the establishment of a limited-responsibility society of Serbia's Airport on 30 January this year. The decision also defined the authority of the public enterprise, which says -- that the core task of Serbia's airport infrastructure management, development and maintenance of Serbia's airport infrastructure will be that the company will be financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, that the headquarters of the company will be at the "Nikola Tesla" Airport, that it will have employees, etc. You now treat this lex specialis, in fact, to take the responsibility of this company that the government has formed, that is, in some part of this law you treat that Serbian airport company as well, but the bottom line is that some partners are allowed to own and operate certain airports. This law introduces a new category and this is the difference between the Air Traffic Act and the airport complex. It's a very important question, for me, in this law. What does that mean? So this new notion implies that someone within the airport complex can build a hotel, and in principle a contract with Belgrade on water, we can get a new investor from 49 to 51% in favour of the Republic of Serbia, as we have obtained Arabs for Belgrade on water, which will decide to build a hotel there. Also, what happens to current employees at the airport, current employees at Serbia's airports? I'm talking about two airports, Nis Airport and Belgrade, because they're the only two who are currently treating this law. So, whether these people will be with the new employer, whether they will keep their jobs, whether they will fire them all, whether they will reduce the number of workers and are actually issues that are completely open, especially regarding the airport complex and can't say anything else, but that there are hidden intentions, as we have already had the opportunity to see with previous laws, the previous lex specialis, where again I mention the example of Belgrade's water poverty, which is being financed by citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the project that has been presented as Serbia's development project. This project will make it better for the citizens of Leskovec and Nis and Kruševac and Kragujevac, it turns out that they will, in fact, fund it out of their pockets, so that you can run the campaign and that some tycoons can perform certain works. So the question is the credibility of your law and your government. In the past five years, from 2012 to today, a sea of laws has been adopted, a sea of false promises, a story of a better life, year after year Serbian citizens listen that it is about to, here it will be better, be patient...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10255	Comrade Alexich, come on, I'm asking you about the law. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10256	... I'll be back. It's part of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10257	It's not part of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10258	Resume my story because it's about the airport stories right now. One of these stories, and we have an agreement that we should give to the opening of an office related to the United Nations railway, and we have here a contract signed last year, related to the construction of the Belgrade-Budapest railway, where the minister announced it as a great opportunity for Serbian companies and that its construction begins this year, 2016, which has passed, did not actually begin, that the value is 1.1 billion. When someone was interested in it, we came to the fact that we can't even find documentation related to this project, because the Ministry of Construction, or the Ministry of Mining and the Ministry of Transport, so here we are, the Ministry of Civil Engineering actually, I apologize, says there's no contract to address the Ministry of Mining, the Ministry of Mines says – we don't have a contract, you're asking the Ministry of Construction. So, the next story that tells us about the credibility of what you say about the law you adopt is the announcements of the opening of two airports that were military, which will serve for civilian flights. These are above all, the Morava Airport in the Ships and the Ponikve Airport in Užica. Since 2012 the announcement, opening and launch of civilian flights from Morava Airport were the following – on September 3, 2012 Aleksandar Vukic says – we will soon end up in favour of the citizens of the Royal Airport "Mova", we will not open it seven or fifteen times to take pictures for television and represent ourselves as heroes, Aleksandar Vucic said. November 23rd. In 2012, Dacic says the talks with Turkey's president on the construction of Morava Airport is continuing. On August 7, 2013, Minister Velimir Ilic said the company from the United Arab Emirates is investing in Morava Airport. On November 1, 2013, Minister Ilic again says -- now the Turks are opening and investing in the Morava Airport, and then you, respected minister, on February 11th 2015, say – flights from Morava by the end of 2015. We are already in 2017. Furthermore, in July 2015, Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic again says "shipmen" as soon as possible, we will finish it. On November 6th, again, you, the minister say – "Boats" by the end of 2015. Then, on July 29, 2015, you say again, not more in 2015, but flights from Morava since mid-2016. You say the airport has great potential and has regular flights by the end of 2016. We can see there's obviously not going to be any of them. And of course, this year in March, again you say -- the Turks are interested in Morava Airport and Turkish investors. As for the Ponika Airport, we had the opportunity to hear during the April elections campaign this year, Prime Minister Vukic, who said the following, quote, the Prime Minister said in a technical mandate at the time – during yesterday's pre-election convention in Uzic, I said that I did not want to officially open a nearby airport in the campaign and promised to the Ponika Airport at the end of August to open for traffic, and there we will need the support of all people with good ties to abroad. So when you have so many lies and lies that you've told over the past four years, this is just one example, it's in all segments of this society. How do you expect someone to believe something different is going to happen? In order for you to gain trust, you must also have credibility and therefore I ask you that if we adopt laws in this way, by emergency procedure, by discussing eight laws, to make sure that we apply them, to do what you promised, and only then to start new promises, but you have reversed the order. It is easier for you to make new and new promises all the time and in some ways to be, or to keep your hope to people that tomorrow will be better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10259	The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10260	Here, like this. You said so much, but somewhere, and I understand all that criticism, because all that you said was actually you were working during some period when you were in power, you promised, and you weren't giving results. Every thing, but literally every thing you mention, every criticism, I'll go from one to the next, is something you've been applying in practice. So, according to every law, the laws were passed in front of you by the Assembly Hall, in particular the Law on Community Affairs, the works of 2011 changed, you changed the members in front of the hall about the funeral services that we are now correcting and we are allowing them to carry out in a normal way. So I'm just giving you one example. "Pinks", since it was the last thing you mentioned. By promising Alexander Vukic at the pre-election rally in Uzic, he made it happen. The Civil Aviation Directorate has given Ponikvam a license for the riot traffic that is being carried out today with the "Ponikva" but we are not satisfied with the disorderly traffic, we want regular traffic, we want more than that, we want to arrange "Ponikva" so we have regular traffic as we have at Nis Airport. Therefore, the promise he made was fulfilled. And what we said four years ago, five years ago, whatever you say, no matter how many years we meet. Morava Airport is currently contracting with Serbia Airports because we wanted to have all airports in one place. We didn't want to do what you did in the previous period, that you had something everywhere, and nothing practically arranged, and when nothing was done, anything was possible. There must be order here, so we first formed a company. So, the airport is a business company called "Serbia Airports". All the so-called so-called companies are located in this company. Little airports. The company is now forming a contract with the Ministry of Defence to make the airport a mixed, civilian airport in the King, and that we could really talk about that airport being able to function. So, are we a few months late? That's right, we're late, but it's finally going to work on that airport. Second, to return only from the beginning as you spoke. Emergency procedure, the law says by an urgent procedure to meet the form and that is practice in the previous period. No, but the laws you've passed have so many holes within those laws that every moment you're in every law through those so-called holes. The ones you've been making in the law, we've had a ride, a problem. At the end of the housing bill through the three laws you've passed, we've had serious building maintenance problems, we've had fatalities, we've had child injuries, because we haven't had a regulated housing law. You could have done it. Why? For the past 10 years, a correct housing law could be passed that would help the citizens of Serbia, because we all need it through. You're talking about a genuine reform of public enterprises. The real reform of public enterprises, I think you should at least talk about it. Railways are the first time, and not because the minister of traffic says so, not because the government of the Republic of Serbia says so, but because all of the world's international institutions say so. The "Serbian Railways" in the previous two years have been a public enterprise that has gone truly, realistically into reforms. From the division of activity to the opening of the market, in this Parliament we have passed the Law opening the railway market, from that for the first time, those loans that took your parties are now different names, but you were then a single political party, 2006, 2008 whether these loans were AIB or from the IBRD, however, none of the only credits were realised. This government has realized. It's an up-to-date 120km track, that's a little bit, but in your time it was zero. So zero came true. So, when we talk about public enterprise reforms, just to be a little more precise because "the railways" have fewer subsidies today and it's not, as you said throwing away money from Serbian citizens for subsidies. Subsidies have been less than a billion this year when we talk about rail companies for wages. Also within that amount is the amount for the use of loans that have been taken so that we can use them and so that we can have new trains and a new network. Then you say in communal activity one thing that's just amazing to me. Everything is flat-rate, you don't have any concrete suggestions to say in the Community Labour Act to improve something that we really have a service that will be better quality. This law that you've passed, which you've changed here in front of the Assembly's door, on the communal activities of 2011, has not clearly defined what the communal activities really are, how we have a stable financing of communal activity. Since we know you ran a local self-government, I assume you know what it looked like in practice. Our biggest problem in local self-government is precisely the issue of communal activity, the lack of money for that infrastructure. This law needs to fix it. This law should make conditions for us to have stable funding, but this law has introduced something that has never been before, and it is the citizens themselves who can say whether the quality of this service is good and what we need to change to make this communal performance better, i.e. provide a service of better quality. As far as art is concerned. 152, 153 and 154. The housing law, I said here that the amendment of the SNS parliamentary group was accepted to remove those three members. I say today, like I said, right now, the moment he shows up, it's not good, and it's in a clumsy way written. The intention was one, and we have the documentation that families are dealing with, what we wanted to solve, unfortunately it's not well written and it's being removed from the law because we're not going to have one moment, no one in this government wants to have any document or law that's not clear, because if it's not clear, we can't even realize it. You're talking about political employment, you're talking about managers who will certainly be some officials. Under number one, no officials are, under number two, professional managers can be all who have certain conditions in terms of education, who undergo training, who gets a license etc. This is a sales relationship, i.e. a contractual relationship between the tenant and the professional manager. So, the market is working, and in this relationship, I don't see any political employment. But I totally understand why you said that, because we all remember it well when it was made. formed so-called The municipal police in Belgrade and other cities, it was during the DS. If someone was employed in the municipal police city of Belgrade, it was only DS. I can confirm that, there are documents for that. So I understand thinking, but some things change. No political employment, we need professional managers to really have a normal and proper way of maintaining our buildings. For the airport, I tried, I hope I gave basic information about the airports and this law. You said at one point that someone was hiding something, that someone wanted to do something about the airport, the airport complexes, and you say, there's going to be a hotel opening. I think it's great. If you've traveled, and I'm sure you have, then you've seen that it's a perfectly normal thing that inside the airport complex you have various hotels, you've got malls and you try to practically all these people who come to the airport and that the company is being held back for a few hours because they have some other flights, to keep them there. If nothing else, they'll spend that money in your own country and keep it in our country. So, I don't see any problem with having some hotels at our airport one day. What's the problem? Why is it considered something that's done secretly, etc.? This law completes the full legislative framework when we talk about air transport and it was important because it first defines some things that the Air Traffic Act has not done so far. Also, you mention and make a story about this law being practically a law on privatisation of the airport. Please read the title of the law first, then once again all the members. This is not an airport privatisation law, this is a law that clearly regulates the activity of airport management that has not been defined by any previous law. Just to say one more thing, I don't know what the Ministry of Mining has to do with Belgrade-Budapest. The modernisation of the Belgrade-Budapest railway is one serious, large project, the largest in the region. Its value when we speak only from the Serbian side, therefore, from Belgrade to the Hungarian border is close to a billion euros. We, as a state, as the Government of the Republic of Serbia together with China and together with the Government of Hungary, have made a three-way agreement. Within that are certain shares for which we are making documentation on the Serbian side. That documentation was made and for what it was made for we signed a commercial contract now in Riga, which is Belgrade-Stara Pazova. From Stara Paza to Novi Sad, we finance it from a Russian loan already taken and for which the documentation is also completed and for which the tunnel and viaduct is made. So that's something that exists. From the documentation the Ministry gives and you can't say that it hasn't been obtained, because we gave it, I think the Protector of the Citizens and the Trustee and all the living, we give everyone what's in our jurisdiction. So you can get a commercial contract at any moment. The financing contract gives a second ministry called the finance ministry, you ask for it and you get it. So there's no secrets. Our interest is to end and to have Belgrade-Budapest. When we talk about tunnel work and viaduct, they'll start safely this year. I think I've answered everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10261	Thank you. The People's MP Miroslav Aleksic has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10262	Thank you. First of all, I don't know why you honor me for what I did while I was in power, this is my first term in the Parliament as an MP, and before that, I've dealt exclusively with local politics, and I've never affected any laws, whatever they are. In the end, and when you say that, you've been in power for five years and there's enough time to make it right. Therefore, if you are saying that you are now adopting laws by emergency procedure to change the bad ones that some have adopted before 2012, you are actually talking about your efficiency again. Well, it took you five years to rectify those laws that were bad again by an urgent procedure. In the end, you were part of some previous government, too, you know very well, and you influenced some of these bad things and decisions, if they were before 2012. Of course, as far as this House Bill is concerned, you last year withdrew the House Building Act from the procedure, even though it was in parliament at one point. So it's also saying that it's kind of not by the rules right, but it's all going somehow under some kind of veil of secrets. Railway reform, you're talking about it. So, 120 kilometers of track is modernized? Well done, but also 800, or I don't know how many miles of railroads you've predicted to shut down in Serbia. That's another thing, and 15 billion are still being given for "Serbian Railways". For example, you can tell me what's wrong with "Serbiagas", how he's reformed, since you asked me specifically. And that I have nothing concrete to object to in the law, we're going to talk about details when we talk about amendments, because in 20 minutes it's impossible to talk about details in eight legislative proposals. You have to understand that. The only thing we can do is talk in general about all these bill proposals that you've delivered here. As for the fact that you said I mentioned privatisation, it's not a moment. As far as the hotel is concerned, here I am finishing up, the problem with the hotel is that, according to the Law on concessions, this private partner can become the owner of that hotel that will be made together with the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10263	Replica, MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10264	Thank you. I understand that the minister is able to bring matter and deliver to the MP, Alexic, everything he intends to deliver on responsibility, laws, jobs, public affairs, mistakes, sins, whatever you want from the Democratic Party. But that, Minister, reduces your credibility. If you can't wait to put up with an authorized representative of the DS Group, don't be so eager to announce everything you've been ordered to say in this room about DS to a man who doesn't have anything to do with it, except that he's a decent man, a decent man, a worthy man, so he reminds you probably and then you lose sight of that he's not even a member of the DS Parliament Club, that he wasn't a member of the DS and that you have no rights, because of your desire to tell the public and everyone what you think of DS, that you're sending it to the wrong man. When and if you want to talk about the Law on Community Police and about who, where and how it changes laws and what kind of money it is, I'm at your disposal, and so far it would be nice to apologize to Mr. National MP Alexic and say, "I'll do it again when it comes to DS," but I had to, I couldn't stand it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10265	The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10266	I'm sorry you couldn't hold back and wait for the DS to arrive. I've been watching the entire parliamentary group outside which the MP spoke, but we'll also return to that credibility and to the DS, given that the largest number of your amendments has been deleted. But, well, we'll talk about it when you do. Just to answer the question about the law's withdrawal, because I think it's important. The housing law was made and worked on it for a year and seven public debates passed. When a practical start of the election campaign was declared, as is usually the case, all the laws found, which passed the cabinet's session and were found in parliament, were then returned. When the government is formed, then they move again with those laws. So the law wasn't returned because something wasn't right, it was procedure. Secondly, since you also mentioned Railways and 400km of railways, I have to say that it is a great shame that the last 15 years of those 400km of railways did not have a single train, they were not trafficked at all, and at the same time the Serbian railways were paying various contributions to local self-government, I may have made a mistake, whether it was a contribution or a fee, but they were certainly paying certain costs, and that those railways had mostly grown in grass and there was no interest or passengers on it. It was clear that they were practically supposed to close long ago. So what we're doing, among other things, is we've been sorting out an abandoned house that's been abandoned for the past 20 years. When you talk about five years of being in power, you're absolutely right, no matter how much, four, five, etc., but it's not easy to fix all the bullshit and all the problems that have been made for the past 12 years, and certainly in some situations when we're talking about the House Act for a few decades.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10267	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10268	Mr. Arsic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Mihajlovic, will not take you anywhere in this debate. It's bad that you contribute to this atmosphere, because some of the serious laws here are ahead of us. What's all this nonsense about the failure of the Serbian railway in the last 12 years? You want me to remind you of who you are in the coalition, who is your Prime Minister, who are you sharing power with today's parties? Could the Serbian Railways have failed in the government of Zoran Djindjic, Zoran Zivkovic, Kostunica? How long will this policy take us? Can you understand that there is no LDP of railways and SNS railways? We've got a problem. Let's get him out of here. You entered an emergency procedure here in Parliament with incompatible laws. But, okay, the College of Chiefs of Parliament Groups, sit down, talk to each other, say -- we care about the railways, we care about the commercial right in air transport, we care about visa liberalisation with China, let's solve these communal problems, and then we get into a debate here in a normal way. The biggest problem is that, as well as the ruling coalition, you're frustrated by the opposition and you're facing the same answer here on our side. The problem is that some serious laws are here before us, and you explain them in a disastrous way. Someone who's watching our work here in the Assembly today might think that privatizing the airport is a disaster, that it's a bad thing. When we talk about the Law on Public Private Partnership, so that's a great initiative, that's what we need. Why don't we focus on it, but we're dealing with nonsense and an MP from Triestenik who eventually answers the failure of the Serbian railway. Deny his salary from those 1% of the pens we're gonna pay the Russians for a $800 million loan we didn't use within the time limit we said they'd be used. I'm not accusing anyone of that, there were objective problems, and with these objective problems, someone's faced you before. Let's get back to these laws, get away from that law that's upset the public, and that's the housing law. Well, there were laws before this law, and they were regulating each other's relationships. What does it look like to insinuate that the previous government, even though I have never been in power since 2003, is responsible for the tragedy of some children in a building? That's nonsense. This law is insane. He's got some good solutions, but he's freaked out. The basic question should be asked – why does the existing law not work? What's the problem with him? The fact that we went wild as a society, which we no longer have the strength to bear ourselves, let alone regulate our relationships in accordance with certain rights and obligations that we together determine to make us all better. The municipality will appoint someone who will take care of a building where the tenants are unable to take care of themselves. How's he gonna do that? A criminal expedition? I agree that these questions should be resolved, but let's see what is the root cause of the problems we are facing today. It is not the same to talk about a congregation of residents in Vrakar or the Old Town and on the periphery of Belgrade, where, by the rule, people hardly make ends meet. It's not just 200-300 dinars, it's about how much something needs to be paid, it's about the state our country's in today. It is such that we are not even able to talk normally, let alone solve problems that exist. Here in these laws that you have proposed, I agree, these are the key laws that solve the issue, this communal problem of the House Act and this Airport Act. We need to do this visa liberalisation with China, why not, and take some money from tourism if we can, make Serbia attractive in every sense, business first and foremost, there's no problem. As far as I'm concerned, the LDP, that rule that was in force in China – it doesn't matter what color the cat is, if it catches the mouse. That's what we always said here in the congregation. We also spoke while you were in G17 with Dinkic, as we speak to you today when you are in the SNS. At least there's continuity in some way. What's the basic problem, this law that you're proposing about the airport, you know what, it's a law that, by its character, speaks of some late age of socialism. We accept the rules of the market economy, but come on, more than that, let's not say. This law is the law during Ante Markovic, not 2016 and 2017. See who has the right to deal with this business, a public enterprise, and then a company of capital that is absolutely owned by the Republic, and then a company of capital in which the Republic has a majority stake, and eventually someone else can do the job, provided that the state trusts him with such a thing. Why are you suspending a private initiative? Why do you deny the right to own an airport? Let's not talk about that, some MPs here, hate the West. But why the largest airport in Russia can have a private owner, Domodedovo, and can't have an airport in Belgrade, for example. I know very well what I'm talking about. Since 2001, we've tried everything to establish some kind of partnership with the Frankfurt airport. On March 12th, the murder of the Prime Minister, that job stopped. A great airport, not only in the way of the organisation, but also in terms of costs, revenues, much Serbia would learn through this partnership, would benefit much. I'm sorry it wasn't done. I want you to do it tomorrow. But why don't we apply the rules of the world that's successful? You are here to prove that Serbia will not privatise the airport. This isn't the Privatisation Act, it won't be privatized, this is the law that... Well, that's what's wrong. That's what's wrong. At every step we have a problem now with our inability to function in the way the official policy is reformed. You're talking about solving the railway problem. It's a difficult question, very difficult. The trains in Serbia didn't stop yesterday. Very complicated. Do you know a failed country with a successful railroad? Well, it's not possible to get out of 20 years of train chaos like France or Germany. But let's see what those who have managed to create efficient systems have done, let's see how societies have changed. When you talk about this law, this airport law, you respect our initiative. You rejected all the amendments because we failed to comply with the Rules of Procedure because you declared an emergency procedure. There must be an opportunity for someone to come to this country with their own private initiative and say, "I want to build an airport, I don't want a Ponyka, I want to go elsewhere, I want to have an airport in Vranjska Banja, I want to have a helicopter ride from Belgrade to Kopalnik at five in the afternoon, on Sunday, people come back, I don't want to drive three hours." We need to free up a private initiative, and you here first allow people to say things, defend against the charge of selling the airport to foreigners. So what if you sell it? If anyone comes and pays, fine. Well, Belgrade has such an air traffic volume that it can have two airports without a problem. I'm sorry we lost because of the population and demagogy in 2005 and we had a second chance at a partnership at Belgrade airport and we missed it. We were then able to be a regional kargo hab, with the prospect of growing and developing, using the fact that these markets in Western Europe are being saturated, to get another runway. It's been 11 years, none of it's been done. If there's a chance to do it now -- great, but let's see who's supposed to do it. Those who try to explain to us that nothing will ever be sold and privatized. So how much did we do to try and sell JAT? We fought for it in 2003, and finally when something was done, it was done in such a way that today we don't know whether we should appreciate it or not. The problem is that you manage to bring down public debt growth, from the minus it starts to decrease, but on the other hand you cannot solve public enterprises. Not to go back to the selection of the director of the Railways, to arrangements for business people to get into the Railways, so when the pulse of the people, what the people think, gets roughed up, the people don't like Serbian tycoons, but it's okay when the Trump billionaires put in the government, it's okay, or when the Russian tycoon shows up and buys something here, when they buy, say, a bank, it's okay. But when our successful businessman thinks he's doing something in agreement with the state for his country, it's bad. You've retired, and it's been a good trip, to find professional management, to pay him well and to start these problems to solve, to have a plan of how and what to do. If we need to close the tracks, close the tracks, we're talking about which one we're going to open. A key question for this law – break these stereotypes and prejudices. We need a private initiative. You have a member of a law that makes it clear who can be an airport operator. You've denied the possibility of a private company doing that job, by saying, we'll move that job. Allow people here in Serbia to do something that has not been possible so far, to register their own airline, define the conditions they need to meet to make their own airport if they want to, if they want to develop a partnership with local self-government, let them develop. Can local self-government trust a job? She owns the company. And when the local self-government changes and some others come, those who say -- we're not going to do anything from the West, we're not going to do foreign financial institutions, the IMF sucks our blood, we want state banks, we want colhoz. Are you considering a job's sustainability perspective? We haven't solved those problems of ours. That's why today your government has fallen asleep. There is no room for politics in the topics we are talking about today. It's pure physics. Until there's the ability to deal with these things, we won't be successful. So wait, we're talking now, we're passing an airport law, we're regulating an area, but we've denied one option, okay. Someone needs to get into that business now, assuming that the future government will follow. I'm not sure. I'm not sure they're interested in that, and the experiences we have are telling us that I'm right. Let's get back to this housing law. You brought it because something's not working, that's clear. But I don't think the system stopped working because it's dysfunctional, but because we've lost each other's order in the last 20 years, at every level, even at that. I don't know how you imagined this law would apply without serious arrangements, conversations, work. What do you mean, the municipality will name someone who's professionally doing a job that the tenant's congregation couldn't agree on? He will come and say, "Good afternoon, I have been sent by a municipality to you in a building. All right, he can come to me in the building, I'll understand. I'm not sure he can get into any building. Will the police go with him? Will he assist? If he won't pay, will the municipality call the executioner to collect? You're creating a space for the rebellion of society, which is not an expression of the dysfunction of this law, but a general set of social circumstances that is very bad. He's not only the result of the real problems that burden us, but also the fact that we're confused, that we're wandering, that we're not able to answer that in a normal way. That's the difference between, I'm telling you as to why I'm showing understanding of someone for your government, because I know I don't have the right to score on a party rating when the topic is, say, Serbia's budget and to cut some budget fees. When you mention salary and pension, I think of Serbia in which we will be the government tomorrow and I know that the register is empty and that no one is easy to fill. Because it's not, that's why I'm pushing for the possibility of privatisation. I see you're talking about giving concessions to the Belgrade airport. Surely there's some reason for that, and it would be good if you told us why it's better to give a 25-year concession than to sell an airport? Is there any sentimental relationship? I think there is, because we still have the idea of privatization that doesn't in itself come across any broad support, but, among other things, because privatisation is always referred to as a robbery. It's populism and demagogy. Because that's not true. Privatisation isn't a fair job. It's an exemplar process, no example in the world. It's the first time we've ever done it. It's a process of transforming property, where people who want to buy as cheap as they can, to make money, because it's an economy. That's why the new American president won't say whether he paid taxes or not, because he was taking care of economic interests, and not of someone else, who might be more suited to him today. Come on, focus on this housing law. That's your problem with the announcement and the time bomb. The atmosphere that was created is just like that. We don't create it. It's a good thing you've opened up the possibility of competition and the appearance of private companies in doing municipal jobs. That's very important. Citizens should be told that it will benefit them, because public utility companies will start to take care, to fight for the market, with a better service, with lower prices, and that's what's good. It's a good thing you've opened up the possibility of a municipality or a utility to intervene in situations where residents are unable to respond. First of all, I'm thinking about maintaining the facade. It's been impossible so far. You have a mockery from a building downtown, the municipality has resources, but there is no legal basis to solve the problem, until residents are able to finance it themselves. We're old company. That's what we need to think about. A lot of young people get out of here. And it's a good thing you brought that measure, that should be supported. But, in general, your law is insane -- every building legal person, every building has an account, every building has to register in the municipality, a building where the tenants can't agree on it will get a professional clerk who will probably agree with those who can't agree with each other, etc. These are not ways to solve these issues. There was a need for an inter-periode. Perhaps, among other things, to create conditions for large companies to appear here, which we have in the developed world, because, I guess, these are examples, we're looking for examples that are functional in the West. There you have companies that maintain entire blocks. And they regulated the mechanisms to which they charge, to which they explain the importance of their services. That's not how it works. Believe me, in New York, you don't have a local government to send your clerk to the building to do some work. Well, if he can go there, if he can go to Germany, if he can go to Vienna, he can go to our place. I agree that everything should be paid. Besides, more or less, we're already paying. But the problem is that these are being touched in a certain way in people's privacy, because so far they've regulated these issues themselves, and the atmosphere that's created is very bad. As far as these other laws are concerned, I don't know why you haven't reached any prior agreement on them. First of all, I mean those questions about who's here against resolving commercial rights in an emergency air transport? Or the trans-railway? Or against visa liberalisation? They're absolutely all for it, and there's no reason to jump at each other's throats. But for LDP, it's a key law on airports and both of them abominable housing laws, because it's an announcement of problems that are unnecessary, because we have enough of them anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10269	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10270	I believe it's your nature, but sometimes you really scare me as much as you yell. I hope that wasn't me. There is no reason to be frustrated with the opposition, my task is to try here as a legislator for any criticism or thinking or comment, any MPs, any position or opposition, to give an answer that is adequate and in accordance with the law and to explain if anything has not been explained well enough. I also don't think anyone should be giving a lecture to anyone, even if they are MPs to the ministers or ministers. But that's my attitude. It seems to me that your exposure was quite confusing. I pulled out a few things that I think were most important and I'd like to explain. My job is to say what is the law. This isn't really a privatisation law, but far from making it impossible for someone to, say, build, like you set an example, a private helipad, etc. So it exists, it's no problem, and it can do that, whoever's really interested in something like that. Secondly, when you talk about what's wrong with privatising any airport -- it's not a problem, but we haven't gotten to that level yet. So we haven't talked about it yet. The government of the Republic of Serbia has hired a consultant to analyse the situation, let's say, at Nikola Tesla's Airport and to offer all possible options about how and how to allow this airport to continue to develop and that the growth trend that Nikola Tesla has is really able to follow in the coming period. I agree with you in one moment, it was, say, 2003 or 2004, when Nikola Tesla Airport could have been a cargo, and it's a big shame it wasn't done. But that was, I think, more because of some of the other interests within the government, I think there were some former ministers showing up in relationships, and that's too bad. That's really a shame, because that's when Belgrade was supposed to take advantage of it. But I'll also remind you that in 2008, one of the airport's directors tried through certain laws to privatise the airport in such a hurry, and I'm glad he's not the director anymore, because that would really be wrong. Fortunately, we have an airport that is now developing and we have the opportunity to do a good thing, if we talk about Nikola Tesla's airport, but let's see all the variations and see what's best for Serbia and, in that sense, behave in the next period. This is where you mentioned the abominable housing law and that it was a problem in the announcement. First, residents’ congregations are now legal persons in the building maintenance work. So it already exists. Whether it's alive or not, in most buildings it's not, and we really have a problem in building maintenance. I would still let it happen in the next period, which is, since I plan to show to the board every three months what the effects of every law that this ministry has passed, because sometimes it seems to me that they don't know what the effects are, we've had, perhaps the only visible ones, that we're constantly talking about, the effects of the Planning and Construction Act, but all the other laws have given their effect, so let's see the law by what we've seen in practice, by what we've looked at in other countries. We are sure that this law can only bring good and that we can really put order in the area of housing and that we can finally make conditions to define both housing policy and what is called the future of housing relations. I can't help but answer one thing about the railroad. You are wrong, I agree that the railway may have been destroyed for two, three, four decades, but I will also tell you that since 2000, so 2004, 2006 and 2008, the years when the largest number of loans was taken just for the modernisation of the railway, and these are the most credits from the European Investment Bank, for example Gilje-Cupria, or from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. I became the minister of traffic in 2014. In 2014, none of these IBRD loans were yet to be realised, and the AIB did not begin to realise. Therefore, do not talk about whether DS has been destroying the railway since 2000. No, she just joined a three-decade railroad collapse. And that's true, because if there was money, it had to be used and we wouldn't be talking about just 100 kilometers of modernized railroad today. As far as the law is concerned, at first you said, we have joined laws that have nothing to do with each other. I don't think I'd agree with you. These laws are related and treat the area of traffic transport and are important to bring, such as the important and sublegal act that we have to pass as soon as possible, so that we can simply apply these laws. I wouldn't answer any of the political things you've been trying to pull through your speech all the time. I tried to say, therefore, the Government of the Republic of Serbia wants to regulate relations, especially when we talk about airports and the possibility of having any strategic partners, whether we think about how we're going to further develop the airport, not just "Nikolu Tesla", but all the other airports. There is a possibility today, any moment now, that anyone interested could build a private airport. When we talk about who manages airports and whether the Serbian government is against the tycoon that should at some point run public enterprises, yes, I am against all those who have acquired wealth in an unusual way and now suddenly have to become directors of some public enterprises. I think it's bad, which doesn't mean someone can't deny me and make it any different. It's just my attitude. If you have any further questions regarding the laws, I will answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10271	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, who is entitled to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10272	Mrs. Mihajlović, what is unusual to you may not be someone. It would be better to introduce some other criteria. It was unusual for you to have successful business people involved in solving problems in public enterprises, and you invited them to do so, but it makes sense that those who, as railway directors, first discovered truffles do so. You want me to remind you who has been the director of Railways since 2012? So don't talk like that. Of course you're frustrated, not just you as a ruling coalition. There's this political frustration, and that's what's wrong, but I'm not someone who's too busy dealing with it and dealing with it. We have devoted a lot of attention and energy to "the railways of Serbia". Here we think we've come up as a party to everyone's head, especially since 2008. All of what you've been talking about for years, but the condition in which the Railways were already at the time was disastrous. I'm just saying that absolutely everyone needs to take over their part of political responsibility. It was a very inefficient policy in the transport sector, if we talk about the period from 2008, or the period from 2004 to 2012. I don't argue with that at all, but I want to tell you that we're not going anywhere, as we don't get far when we deny what's obvious. I didn't say anything against the idea that you through a public-private partnership would solve some serious problem in the country. That's what I support. In this I see a chance for something positive to happen and the country to change for the better and open space for our policies as it is today. I understand very well the Airport Law and I understand that this is all from your portfolio, but I'm just saying that something's okay. for the debate, and there was something we could do at the college of the heads of parliament and that we had no problem here. Just some theme, sit down, talk for five minutes. No one here is against those agenda points. As far as the housing law is concerned... (President: Bring the end, Mr. Jovanovic. )......................................................................................................... It is clear that so far this area has been treated with law. He existed, he existed since 1992, he was adopted, then five, six changes. It's not so much a problem with bad law. I said what was very important, and you did it. The problem is, we can't live in accordance with the law, not just with it, but with someone else. That's why we need to talk about it. I'm not asking people to vote for me here by saying now that you're going to hire thousands of SNS activists, but you were wrong when you said that the Communist police were the place where hired personnel were exclusively DS. We've been keeping an eye on... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10273	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10274	Just one little remark. You said, I wrote down, we can't live in accordance with the law of the House Act. I'm denying you right now. The law on planning and construction that was passed, everyone here when we defended that law and when we talked about building permits, first within 28 days on the counter system, and then from 1 January 2016 on the electronic building permit, I don't know who thought and believed, it was also said, it can never be implemented in practice, it's never going to happen, and we're thanks to that in the first 10 countries in the world by reform right in that area. Electronic building permits and an average of giving an electronic building permit in Serbia are carried out for seven days, the location conditions are 14 days. So we can. Why do we have to keep saying we can't do something? We can do buildings, and it can, believe me, it looks completely different from what it looks like today.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10275	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10276	Mrs. Mihajlovic, it's not a good example. It's in everyone's best interest that your Space Planning Act works. In the interest of everyone, but it depends on the administration. We didn't lose our licenses because we couldn't take them, but the administration couldn't, because of the complicated procedures, to give them away. It's good that it works. I didn't say we couldn't live in accordance with the laws, I said we couldn't live otherwise. I'm not saying it should stay that way. That's what we have to solve. I'm warning you that your law is too much to deal with and that some solutions that are logical in other environments here require a little more explanation and attention, and I don't see that kind of thing done. That's what the point is. Nothing more, except that. If the laws work because of the efficiency of the administration, excellent, but don't tell you now – let's see how the law works in the New Market.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10277	The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10278	I guess when you say "overnoded," you mean "too detailed," etc. I'll tell you right away that's why there will be fewer sublegal acts that will be completed in the next seven to eight months. Let it be in a month, two, and let it be in the next seven to eight months adopted. In the end, I invite you to in three months or six months to see how this law really works. I sincerely hope you agree with me that at that moment we will have certain results. As for the New Market, the Planning and Construction Act works. What is the problem of the New Market are plans, safety belts, protection areas, and I believe that we will succeed and solve this problem together. There are no unresolved problems and there are no laws that can't really be implemented and implemented in practice, if we want to, and you know it. The question is we will, and we will.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10279	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milena Bijanin.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10280	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, fellow MPs, here I will be involved in this debate and with special attention I have dealt with the House Act, as well as my MP group, for a very simple reason, because this law concerns all and because of one of the three fundamental human needs. In elementary school, you learn, in the fifth grade, that these are the need for housing, the need for food and the need for clothing. If, in any way, one of those three needs is not adequately met, of course, that man is experiencing a sense of personal shame and loss of dignity, but I think it is a lack of home, not having a place to live, something that ultimately ruins human dignity and in discussion, that is, in my address, I want to contribute to the understanding of all these programming issues that we have asked and which we will ask, and I will also make some of them. What is quite clear, is in the objectives set by the Ministry, as reasons why it wants to pass this law, and these goals are really quite clear and I am absolutely in agreement with them. The first goal is to change social and economic circumstances. We all know that. We know these circumstances. In 1992, when we talk about housing, a law was passed which the owners of the apartments at the time, at prices very affordable, could buy their apartments and now they can't, and even if someone says abuse, I don't say the next few sentences on the subject. We all know that in the previous states, not to call them names now, all employees were obliged to be, to participate in housing funds. Some of these housing funds received apartments, and later they bought them for money that was truly very symbolic. A very large number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia and from every country that called it that time failed to achieve its right. This pyramid, which, at one point, stopped filling, brought one good, and caused some damage to others, and these citizens never experienced any social satisfaction, and what I would say was the social injustice that was done then never tried to resolve itself. Perhaps some tax benefits or in any way, and let us not forget that the people who gave into the fund, who were not willing to wait a long time for someone else, or the state, to solve the housing issue, but rather to take the matter of life to themselves and their family, into their own hands. I think it's one moment of mistrust that's slowly being built, when we have this topic and just all we hear about when we're talking about the topic of housing is, of course, the result of what we know, what we know we're doing, what we know is how hard we're working on common interest and when it's one of the most important things that we're dealing with, and that's exactly the housing. Now, of course, the concept of the market economy and the simple circumstances have led to it, and I'm not going to argue here either, but what I also have to say is that the role of the state is in the activities that I need to contribute to so that all citizens can satisfy the right to housing, of great importance. Of course, the social housing programme and the law, which, of course, is part of this House Act, thinks about it, has a very large number of members who contribute, and what is also important, which is for the second category of citizens who are not categories of those who need support, social support on housing, it is of course important for them to have their right to work and the right to earn quality money, be so high, to say, set up and realized that they can address this issue that is vital to life. In the data we received in this material, we saw that we have this parameter of how many years of average wages you need to allocate to buy apartment 1 to 13, meaning everything we do in this country when it comes to economics, because it's an alpha and omega, everything really, I hope that it contributes and solves these problems. What is somewhere, as an important goal and undeniably extremely important, is the goal of improving housing conditions, in order for housing conditions to be provided, of course, we need to agree on the way buildings will be maintained about the way the housing fund will be promoted and, of course, with the aim of keeping that housing fund as one of the absolute values of a social moment and a total, let me say, the wealth of a country, because that is certainly the parameter that enters that scale. The facts suggest that 39% of the total housing fund was built between 1946 and 1970, from 1970 to 1980, 24% of the housing fund, and, of course, the highest percentage of buildings that were built at that time were not made according to standards that tattoo the issue of energy efficiency. We are then, probably there was, in some world we've been away from it, and because of that, of course, we have serious problems today. Serious problems, when it comes to quality housing and serious expenditure. I think this question is extremely important. Why? Because energy efficiency, wealth, or the preservation of energy efficiency is the wealth of a country. I think the law, as defined, offers opportunities for tenants' communities to make decisions, to take credits, too, so that if they can't make their buildings energy efficient. This issue will be particularly significant when our energy consumption is calculated in a different way and when we pay exactly as much as we spend. Everything at one point is a cost, and at one point it becomes a significant savings. I think it's a good solution, but what I'm worried about is the paying power of our citizens, which is largely absolutely questionable. If two-thirds of the members of the housing community have the right to make this decision, I ask everything with one-third, which I don't think they won't understand, they'll want very much to have windows of good, to have an isolated roof, to have an isolated facade, but I wonder, regardless of their understanding and their personal need, whether they will be able to participate enough in a loan that will be adopted at the level of the community. What would really help us if we didn't have these dilemmas, and first of all, the citizens weren't worried, because we're all really worried, that's what, the Minister you've talked about many times, and the ministers have talked a lot before you, these are social cards. I think that if we had them right now, it would very much help us to take down their burden of fear and concern, and tell them that society based on evidence, accurate and accurate, knows who and to what extent can and should single out the money. We can't all have the same, we can't all have the same in all circumstances, and what's for every society of absolute value, that's solidarity. Solidarity for those who don't. When we talk about building managers, I can't say that question, and I won't hide it, that when I read the law that I was upset too. We'll see how all this works, but what I'm saying is that no one's stopping anyone, not even in the building where I live, nobody's stopping anyone from making a deal on who's gonna be the building manager. There's no such thing as an obstacle. Is there an obstacle because of our broken neighbourly relations, because of our security, because of our lack of interest, for 1,000 reasons? Yeah, I'm sure it does. I think it's very important to say honestly, there's no obstacle. Let's make a deal. Where someone won't, doesn't want to, doesn't want to engage alone, doesn't want to accept whoever wants to, and there's always better, there's someone better among us all. Where no one wants to go, there's really going to be a manager coming to the side. What I'm interested in, Minister, when we talk about this kind of thing, to say new occupations, we all know that there are already professional managers in some buildings in Belgrade, we've seen these contributions on TV, where the warden was responsible, completely conscious, where the tenants were satisfied. I don't have to have a lot of dilemmas, but I have one question, and in that sense, our parliamentary group has submitted one amendment. In case the building manager is someone from the building, let's say, he draws it right, among other things, because he owns the apartment, he lives here, and he's who he is. However, when someone comes on the side, we think that in these conditions, to say the contest, or to meet the criteria by which someone can do the job, there should be a provision by which that person should not be punished for crimes. He who comes to us, who enters our house, we don't know him. We know our neighbor. We don't know this guy. I think it would be very important, because of the real peace of the citizens, for the start of the elemental peace, to know that it is someone who is not convicted of a crime, so now who knows the criteria as already stated. The other thing is this face must be, criteria must be very firm and unwavering. It's someone who's going to run the community, it's someone who's going to make decisions, it's someone who's going to have money, it's someone who can get into our position when we're not in the building, and when there's either visible or suspected something is happening that can cause great damage to the victim and so on. If I understand correctly, it's someone who will have the key to my apartment and who, under such circumstances, will be able to enter. It could have been a neighbor by now, which I'm telling you, make sure I turned off the iron. But this is about something else. It wouldn't be good for the public, or for that person to get in any discomfort, any compromising situation where someone will suspect something's gone from his apartment, because he's in there alone, because he can probably get in when he thinks there's a certain suspicion, or reason. I think it's very important that we get these answers because we really need to be calm. The goal is, in fact, to make this law work and to bring well-being, for reasons for which it is supposed to bring about well-being. When we talk about how this building manager is going to list us, he will, of course, have information about all of us. I don't think that's particularly important to him, but the housing reports are in the MUP. When we talk about the tenants, it's really a special category of tortured people in our society and our parents and many of us, of course, we've probably spent one part of our lives under these circumstances, and I really think it takes legal protection and the one who betrays the apartment and the one who enters the apartment. That's where the really incredible injuries happen, to say the least possible rights. The contract can very clearly define that it protects both of them, and that contract will be the basis for paying taxes, I'm not sure, because I say – we know each other, and then many of our tenants will report as relatives, aunts, aunts, etc. Many, if they do not want to do so, will report a small fee for the apartment, the rest will be taken into their hands and I think there will be some additional questions and additional dilemmas. When we talk about the category of protected tenants, it's another one, let's say, of the historical consequences that's been going on for 70 years. The Restitution Act has been passed. The time has come for this issue to be resolved. I really advocate that the rights of these people be preserved in every way, that the problem of their migration is realised in accordance with all possible and constitutional law and with all other and conventions on international agreements that we have signed, ratified, which ultimately always concern human rights. These people will have the right to buy, if I understand correctly, their apartment under the 1992 Law. If I understand it well, I think it's just because when others were buying apartments they couldn't do it, they weren't offered, so they couldn't. And what's also quite significant, this period of ten years, I hope it will be long enough and the fact that in courts there are now 10,000 court disputes on this issue, and that this issue, simply and that question, will be taken off the agenda, can indeed be of great importance. What is also important, that is, I would say, is that the real system of a state, a few days ago we passed the Law on preventing domestic violence Now we see in this law simply this relationship in thinking, connecting, that even those who are victims of domestic violence, have, of course, now the state is seriously considering both their protection and their roof over their heads and in any case the important question is. A question I don't think any of us have talked about, it's a question of people with disabilities. I read the law, and I really didn't find it in this term that I think it's good that it's listed, here we haven't found a single point of definition of who people with disabilities are, because they're simply citizens of this country and they have all the rights and even the right to live, the right to social support when it comes to housing, of course, and many of them, in that sense, have to support enough. And there is now the question of a number of members, which we will discuss in the discussion of details. The question arises – can it be prevented that, given that these people sometimes have, not sometimes but often have the support of another person, so-called. other people's care and assistance and therefore have increased incomes, whether this can be the basis for which they will not have the right to social housing, or one who has a lower degree of disability will be ahead of the person for whom this issue is also very important. I don't want to compare it just doesn't work, but I'm asking a question. Also, when it comes to living support for these people, it is very important to include the structure of the apartments that are intended for them, because these apartments really have to have the personalities of another type, whether they have a threshold, which is the width due to movement, because of aid, etc. Because if we are already thinking and working for the benefit of all our citizens, these citizens are equally important and all these issues absolutely need to be considered. I'd just end up coming back for a moment, those are the rules of the apartment owner. These rules can be made by the owners or members of the housing community, by their own arrangements that can protect them. Once again I want to underline, it's a matter of agreement, it's a matter of support, it's a matter of understanding. If we live under one roof, I don't see any reason why we can't agree to protect our private property, if we're afraid of it in different ways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10281	Thank you. Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10282	Thank you for your comments. And I also think that we should agree that, in that sense, we live in our living facilities, but life here pretty much disproves us, especially when it comes to, as much as these objects are, having a small number of residents, there are problems. You should not be concerned about this law, not you, not the citizens of Serbia. This law has, in a very clear way, been done, trying to make conditions for us to once introduce order, really into the area of housing policy. You said yourself that we finally know when we're talking about social housing and everything else, that we know which way we're going. No one will have the key to your apartment and it's not standing anywhere. Unless you give it to someone else, but basically no one will have the key to your apartment. What's the basic question of everyone is these very professional managers. I fully agree with you that there has to be a clear report that it wasn't, that this person who will be a professional manager has not been convicted. The amendment you've given is technically incorrect, but now we've talked through the board to make one such amendment, because it is important and should be found in that part. Regarding people with disabilities, we accepted a few amendments. I don't know if it's your parliamentary group or anything, but it's in that part where we have to define it a little bit better so we don't really have any problems. As far as professional managers are concerned, they already exist today. Most of them are, as I said, in Novi Sad, 50 to 60 residential buildings already have managers. We've now put them in the corners of the law, but they de facto exist. It is likely that, after this law, it will also appear in Serbia's territory. You were talking about damage, you were talking about who would enter the apartment, no one would have the key. The only one who can get in is a fire crew or police with a building inspector in some situation, but it really doesn't, it's not a situation, or it's not what the housing law says. When we talk about solving this long-term problem of protected residents, yes, they will have the opportunity when in the next period of local self-government they provide an adequate place or adequate apartments, where they will live for a period of ten years, they will, of course, have the opportunity, as some once had under that law to buy these apartments and buy out. The social maps you mentioned, Minister Vulin announced the creation of social maps, and that will help in all, I would say, the spheres and all the resolutions of our society that we have one clear picture and that that is why we can make plans for what we are doing next. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10283	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Olena Papuga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10284	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister Mihajlović, members of the ministry, respected fellow MPs, I will speak first of all about the Housing Act, and I want to say at the very beginning that we need him, but I think you have made very big cuts that our citizens are afraid of and that maybe this should have been done in a partial way, not like this to cut themselves, so what happens will be. We are trying to get closer to the EU and this law clearly confirms it, but our standards are far from that. Low wages and pensions and citizens' debts lead to every communal cost being a problem. I also want to say that our citizens like to live in an orderly space, but simply this situation that we've been brought to, I won't speak at what age and when, has led to citizens simply not being able to maintain the space they live in, because they simply don't have the means to do so. Our citizens are aware of all this, and they are also aware that their facades are falling and that they are written to graphites and that they should have someone who will professionally take care of their building, but I think it will lead them to great costs and that it will be really one problem, which I don't know how to solve. The tenants may be in debt on some loans, for this law will lead them to keep those places where they live. Our mentality is such that we may not worry about a shared apartment as we do about that private apartment next door. This law will most likely arrange it, because building maintenance is hereby declared public interest. I wonder, has this law really taken into account the material situation of citizens and how it will be resolved, for example, the question of drowning buildings, changing windows, doors, moving buildings that really look ugly to graphites, will our citizens have to answer, to pay these points, to somehow be in debt to loans they really don't need in this economic situation? Another allegation that the citizens of this law are afraid of is the introduction of this professional manager, who has been given great authority. I live in a building where we have a long time ago who takes care of our building, but in that building we have our income. So the building downstairs has a store, a lawyer, a place where the bakery leaves its flour, products, etc., so that these revenues make the building really work. That's what he's worried about, to say the warden, the person who wants to give us the tenants, and the building has 140 apartments, somehow easier life. He doesn't do it for free. We ourselves have introduced tenants to pay those incomes, we have income, the building has income, so the manager's salary. I don't know who's gonna be doing these management jobs for free. It's really best if our neighbor we live with is that manager, but I'm afraid, who's going to accept being the building manager for free? We may simply all be forced to have local self-government hire our managers, which will again be some extra cost to the citizens. It's not much, but for some citizens it's really a lot. The tenants, the citizens, reading about this law in the papers, may not be directed enough, but they're afraid that the warden, he'll really be able to monitor all the tenants, I think he'll be able to see who he's coming to, spy on whether he's staying in that apartment any longer, or if it's just a guest who's staying here for maybe a week. This may be in some amendments, and we have stated, that there may be some manipulations about those who betray apartments, and they will not report tenants because they will definitely have to increase their rent, they may be in some secret relationship with the manager and that they will simply, perhaps, be easier to share those 20% of the taxes they are due to pay to the state. I don't know, maybe there'll be some manipulation. The constitution says that not everyone has the right to control who lives where they live, because the register is run by the MUP. That's why citizens are kind of afraid of it, that the warden will be able to get into their apartment. You said they wouldn't have the key, but people might be afraid of all the great powers of the wardens that this law gives. That's why I said in the beginning that it might have to be done on a partial basis, that it was necessary to bring in the wardens, because the real buildings are very detached both inside and outside, and someone needs to take care of the buildings, but I think that these powers are too large and that somehow they should have been done on a partial basis. The second thing I want to do is point out more about these tenants' congregations. For example, the law states that a person who does not attend a meeting of the householder congregation loses his right to vote and thus is said not to be touched by these things. The warden schedules the congregation, and he can simply schedule a meeting before noon three times, and someone who works early in the afternoon will not come to that congregation and will simply be expelled forever, will no longer have the right to vote. Another example. Whoever wants to build the apartment, I don't know which member of the law, can get a two-thirds majority of the tenants. So far, it's been said that all tenants need to give this support to build something, maybe sell something, some part of the building, etc., I don't think that's good. Whether a high school manager can be a manager and whether he can manage it in some way, determine what he's going to do to upgrade and take a two-thirds majority of the tenants and make that decision. If there are more owners of special parts in one building that would turn the common area into a family apartment, the advantage is the owner of a special work that has several household members. This is how the proposed solution opens up manipulations. Such a dispute should be resolved by the residential community itself, with certain guidelines, instead of ignoring all other circumstances other than the number of persons reported to a specific apartment. That's what we've given the amendment that needs to be considered. The majority, which consists of two-thirds of the total number of votes to make decisions on the availability of common parts of the building, trust in the management of the professional manager and credit to the residential community. This is our amendment to Article 44. We believe that this qualified majority in practice actually leads to obstruction of the decision of the congregation housing community, and that the democratic majority is sufficient in the decision-making process. Next thing you know, I'd like to talk about, the law on transporting dangerous cargo. The proposal for a law on dangerous cargo proposes to shut down the Administration for the Transport of Dangerous Loads. Otherwise, this administration was established by the Transport Act in 2010. So, the law only exists for six years, and management only started working in 2013. So, after three years, we shut down management, and after six years, we're changing the whole law. I want to ask you, Minister, what has changed in standards that we have to change the whole law? It is explained that the Transport Administration is being shut down because of some irregularities in the work and that the report has been given by the State Auditing Institution, but I do not know if any of the MPs, of the citizens, have seen the report. So now we can assume that this report does not exist and that there are no big grounds for abolishing this administration and that all of what you're introducing, with all the work of transporting dangerous cargo, you are centralizing, or giving the Ministry all the right to decide, to appoint, to give technical instructions, etc. So, centralization has never done any good, so we don't think it's going to do any good to transport a dangerous burden. The administration has had seven employees so far. Her affairs will now be taken over by a special sector, I say, at the Ministry of Construction and Traffic. This special sector is about to form. If this administration has really had any failures, why hasn't the Ministry responded so far? Why didn't you, say, switch directors or why no one answered because of these failures? I mean, what's said, there's nothing listed why exactly that administration is shutting down and why it's being centralized. I guess there's a reason why we don't need management anymore. The work of the administration, at least for some information, was good. However, they made sure that two and a half thousand drivers passed the exam at the Transport Authority and obtained a certificate for drivers of these vehicles for the transport of dangerous cargo, they worked in some of their minimum conditions. Serbia only had two advisers to transport a dangerous burden. It wasn't just the candidates from Serbia who passed those atheists, or tests, but I read somewhere that it was for the citizens of Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia to take the exams. I want to ask more – were there any irregularities in taking the exams and why is this administration really shutting down? The number of staff in the administration was not great, and I think that if the Ministry wants to arrange the area, it needs to introduce more inspectors, that transporting a dangerous burden is very, I say, risky, leading to inconceivable consequences for both people and the environment. I recently traveled on the highway, and I see a truck carrying some dangerous load, some bottles that aren't protected, they're sticking together. So, I think the Ministry, if you're already shutting down management, really needs to be committed because people are reluctantly endangered, and also the environment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10285	Thank you. Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10286	Thank you. Thank you for your questions. Maybe I should start with this administration right now. The work of the administration is simply returned to the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Traffic, through a special sector, where, just as you suggested, we will most professionally deal with the activity which is transporting dangerous cargo, and everything else that is not the activity of transporting dangerous goods, of course, will not be in the transport sector of the Ministry of Transport. These people who do, therefore, that profession that this job does, will work but in the sector, because we are fully aware of the importance of this law, that is, the importance of taking care of such an important topic. Secondly, a huge number of complaints have just been primarily made by the economy, not only in the way you mentioned exams, which will continue to be conducted, but it will be in the ministry, not only from Serbia, but also from other countries that you mentioned. A huge number of complaints have just been to the work of the inspection itself. Because we think that this way we are going to do it more efficiently and better and more professionally, that is the basic reason why we transfer the practical activity of the Department of Transport of Dangerous Loads to the ministry sector. We can call it centralization, but we just think that such important things can't be scattered somewhere on the side, but they have to be kept awake by the Ministry. Next, about the law you're talking about, I mean, in every law and on every subject, it's possible to make a whole story that doesn't have to be near at all, that might have one word right, and everything else won't be connected at all to the law. That's how a story is made here. Like we had a story about tunnels, I don't know, low, and they're not low, so we explained ourselves. Every day I explained that it wasn't like that and they weren't short at all. So now we have a situation where professional managers are thought to be behind us now, to be there, to follow who's coming, who's leaving the building. No, I don't. All decisions in each building are made by the owners of the apartments. The professional manager, if the building chooses a professional manager, is there to help manage the money we already allocate better. After all, here's an example. If we separate the money and pay, for example, Infostan, there's one part there that's right about building maintenance. Well, I guess we need to know if we got a favor, whether it's a quality service or not. After all, there will be other companies on the market that we may be able to maintain our apartment, perhaps not Infostan, but some other company. So we have to have someone, whether it's our neighbor who's been the president of the tenant's assembly so far or if we decide to have someone else on the side, it's the owner's decision again, but neither will they have the keys, nor will they follow us, spy on us, none of it. They're here to help really finally and once we put order in keeping our buildings. You mentioned local self-government that would hire forced managers. Yeah, but they're going to determine compensation, precisely because forced managers wouldn't have any other price. A very important part is energy efficiency and how it will be financed. For the first time in this housing law, energy efficiency, i.e. raising energy efficiency in construction, is treated as a public interest. This means that there can be complete or partial co-financing, whether it's by the state or by another institution, but it's one of the ways we see that we can fix what's primarily called irrational energy consumption in construction. That would be the most basic thing I've ever wanted to tell you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10287	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10288	Thank you. I will try to make my comments, remarks and questions about the eight draft laws that are before us, under one title, which is one word that reads "agility". The word is from the strategy of Serbia's accession to the European Union, and it implies a clear instruction to all those who are engaged in accession, a translation into the original English word "affordability", so what can you afford and when. Why do I choose that title? Because I don't think we can afford to have anyone who proposes the law shouting, "Everything is great, best, it's never better, fantastic, everything will be solved," and the one who contests to yell, "nothing's wrong, it's never been worse." We can't afford that. It is the death of dialogue, the death of development and, contrary to the accession of the European Union and the reforms that we agree on. Why would I look at the laws through affordability? I'll start with the easiest -- mutual visa waiver. Can we afford that? What does that mean? I'm the first for visa-free regime with all the countries, but there's no reason here for affordability. Next, a public-private partnership. It's a good thing we're changing provisions. Can we afford to say this – this is not really a public-private partnership, but at this point it's the most we can do? Whether we can afford it or not in 2016 and under the cover of a public private partnership, there is still insufficient readiness. Not the Minister of Government, when I have something that's responsible to the minister, I'll say it's a narrative that exists in the administration, which exists in the ministries where convincing people are trying to sit, so they're able to convince government members, they're harder to go with MPs, whether something is well measured, whether it's affordable. I don't think so, and I'm going back to that law. Airports, concessions, so whether it's affordable to give 30, 20, whatever, the number of airports we give to concessions or the affordability to privatise the airport. There's got to be a dialogue on that. That's why we can't afford any more of those who propose jokes. Everything is great. It's wonderful. It's never been like this. It's all your fault. The issue is the privatisation of airports and concessions for smaller airports and for "Nikola Tesla" Airport, is a question that is important for this government and for the future, if it does not solve it. The transport of dangerous cargo. If we can afford a sentence here that everything will be as if the administration exists, only the administration won't be. I don't remember how many times I've heard that sentence before. That's how it happened with the non-ionizing radiation agency, with me being told here that I invented non-ionizing radiation, which I would love, but I didn't. It's not good. It's not good, especially when we've lost an explanation of what's going to happen in this interspace at the time, when you transfer people from the administration to the ministry, and jobs still have to be done. The economy complains. What's the economy complaining about? Was there a bribe in the administration? Were there any corruption, any criminal acts? We can't afford to do law debates here from the wrong estimates, one to yell cool, one to yell nothing. We don't have time for that. It will be up to you to say, "Oh, you talk, I will do as I please." It's only a matter of common damage, and it's unproductive. The explanation was that the abolition of the administration has to do with the better work of the inspection and that it is defended by the gray economy, and that everything will work by the ministry, the minister says – under the Ministry's watchful eye. Where is that alert eye, while the administration now exists and that no matter how much I agree because it's trans- Directives, and it has to, so it has to, that in a year or a month we'll come, and we'll talk again about where the administration is and whether it was better or not. We don't have time to afford it, but it's at will with you however you think we don't need the dialogue to determine without any doubt what's best for a dangerous burden. Then the Housekeeping and Maintenance Act. An explanation of the affordability of this law in Serbia. There's an explanation at three points. We don't have a congregation of tenants. I haven't been able to find the data, and how many we have. Nowhere. It's got to be a legal person, they don't want to register them in the APR, they don't want local self-government to work. So we can't afford to come here and change the law, because we don't have enough residents' congregations, and we don't know how many there are. And most certainly, don't take Novi Sad as an example. What we can do in our little town is rarely who knows where, except we like to act important. So it's because of the narratives of society, and the barbarians, that's why there are managers who have been paid by the congregation of tenants of buildings. So we have a reason to introduce forced managers and introduce managers, and we don't know how many residents there are. You've left in the law a provision that the tenant's congregation makes a deal with the warden. What congregation of tenants? How's he gonna make a deal when there's no tenant assembly, and you don't know how to tell me the number? If there are three million housing units, if 500,000 are not constantly inhabited, if there are two and a half million, how many are the tenants' congregations? One hundred thousand, thirty thousand, twelve thousand, fifteen thousand? You can't change what you can't measure. We can't afford any more arguments that are of this kind of community, no matter how much I can agree that the co-workers of both ministers and ministers have told us themselves – we don't do this system with the tenants' assembly, we can't agree. It's not good enough. What does it mean that local self-government will then choose forced managers? Then we don't need a congregation of tenants. Then how are we going to explain it because there aren't enough of them to form now? The right to vote, to identify the tenants, we must very carefully with this provision, especially what you have here – who does not vote several times, his vote does not count. Then why are you even looking for him? Is he a tenant or not? Here, the one you found didn't come three times, delete him and don't count. Less on it are the provisions as interpreted. We don't belong to someone who loves this House Act to read anyone's intention to hire their forced managers, it's always been bad for a political party or for an idea if it had any. Nor do I belong to those who feel that this will be a general monitoring of people who do what they do in their apartments, what the neighbor cooks and what happens after that, or that there will be an invasion of apartments. What worries me is that we can't afford to miss the third law change, the chance to do building maintenance. That's the problem. I don't see it in this law. I'd like to see it because it would be a common benefit to all of us. There are those of us who live in buildings with good experience, especially us from Novi Sad, and we know that it's not everywhere. The problem with this law is it looks like it's been done on the basis of a little bit of news about a good little model, picked up and mixed, but it's essentially not made up. There, I don't blame who I don't think I'd come up with any better, but what I do know is that the public debate and what were the objections from the public debate to respect the whole process of dialogue when it comes to such an important area to come up with a better solution together. It's about responsibility. Who's responsible for falling on a death row? I welcome that. I'm in this assembly asking who's responsible for the helicopter crash and I think it's a good thing for every accident, for every outcome, that he wasn't mortal, to know who was responsible. Will this law determine that? I don't see it in any provision. The coercional manager will be responsible? The professional manager will be responsible? The president of the tenants' assembly will be responsible? On what grounds? It's nice to say but I like to see it in the law and however you explain it to me as well as to show me how many congregation residents there are, I'm going to honestly say thank you, because that means we're starting to watch how to afford better solutions in the law through dialogue. Will the Chamber of Commerce, along with local self-government, have the best possible way to train future managers? In the next three, four months, what did the minister say? We attended an exchange of monologues, which in my opinion we could never afford but we did, and I listened that in three, four months, a judicial academy would be established, so I listened that all training of municipal police officers would be completed in three, four months. Well, I've heard that all specialized training of officers participating will be completed as soon as possible. None of that happened. I don't blame the Minister or her associates or this government for that. I urge us to start talking about what we can afford further. Another round of things that we're going to talk about -- it can, it can be, it's great, it's nothing before, or we're going to talk about it -- it's nothing right now, it's been great, or we're really going to try, say, to count the tenants' congregations. How complicated does it have to be to know how many residents there are in Serbia right now? In number. Where's that information? By such simple things, you can see how many problems anyone who wants to bring order to any area is really facing. I have no doubt that both the Minister and his associates want to put order into this area. It's my job, it's my duty to try and see if that order really works. That's why it's my choice to invest in the Law of Housing of the Prosecution Amendment, because we can't afford to talk here, how can I tell you, just about what's impeccable or what's wrong without talking about the context with the data of the sector we want to change. I am not against the public-private partnership, I am not against the concession or privatisation of the airport, especially I am not against the strict inspection of the transport of dangerous cargo, and I am not against the introduction of order in municipal activity. What's the idea? So, in a dangerous burden, the idea comes down to the Ministry having absolute jurisdiction, and that's a lack of trust for the possibility of any decentralised being also responsible. The second part of the idea is that in a public-private partnership, you actually have a redesigned idea that only public funds are carried out in various actions and that in one modified variant, one who wants to do business in private, it allows the risk of private business to be shared with publicly collected funds in local budgets or in the central budget, anyway. I don't mind that idea. Your policy, your idea. It's my duty to try and scan everything that's wrong and see if it's affordable from the point of view of the data that I have, as well as for communal activity. You have detailed all communal activities, looking, that's where I see the legislator's intention to repair the utility sector as soon as possible so that users, citizens can have an impact on it and say their word on the quality of the service. For all these laws I miss, otherwise what I miss in the bill is to see that the citizen is the center of everything. I don't even see him in the center of the House Act, I don't see him in the center of a public-private partnership, I don't see him in the transport of dangerous waste, I don't see him in the utility. I do not see that we have decided to reform our view of the world and that we understand that the ideas we agree with and that we want to see achieved in Serbia the ideas of organised EU states with the rule of law, that the citizen is the center of each system. The first piece of information that would tell me that I was wrong would be that if you were fortunately to have the number of congregations in Serbia to share with me. It would already be a good start to see how much quality dialogue we can afford in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10289	Thank you. Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10290	I understand that you are proposing from the protest to 158 members of the House Act 158 amendments are deleted. I can understand that. I don't really believe that citizens understand what the interest is to hear if there's any additional idea that can fix the law and make it better and better. When you say there is no dialogue, I will immediately tell you that we, as Government, through these amendments, many of whom we have received from opposition political parties, have adopted amendments that have really contributed to better housing law, and that is for me a dialogue, because there have been a lot of such amendments that we have adopted in social housing, almost every part of it. As for the dialogue with you, unfortunately, you have all the amendments deleted and there is no dialogue there. In this principle debate of yours, which I believe is principled, whether we can or cannot afford ourselves, and how we can afford clear laws, laws that have precisely established criteria for the Ministry to take care of the transport of dangerous goods, because it is very important, because countless large numbers of agencies, administrations, offices that have established the previous 15 years have not brought us anywhere, in every good result. We have experience with the Spatial Planning Agency which, as an agency, has been abolished, but within the Ministry, we have a Spatial Planning Sector, which has been the amendments and additions to the Law on Planning and Construction. So I thought I'd really speak again under every law, but I'd really say there's no dialogue on your part, so I'll use it when I answer to any other parliamentary group, not you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10291	The word has a folk MP Gordana Komic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10292	How many residents are there in Serbia? Is there a simpler question? Is there greater evidence that you do not want Serbia to afford dialogue and development than to refuse to tell me – how many residents there are in Serbia? Where are they registered? That's the number you're based on defense of the law. On that nonexistent number, you are based on the solution that this household of residents, which we do not know exists, are contracting with the wardens. On this non-existent number, you are based on an entire law that says – if the household of residents cannot agree, then local self-government will have a forced manager. How many residents in Serbia are there? I respect little things and participate as much in the little process in Serbia as in the dialogue. There is no replica, insult, thoughtless word, anything spoken of by anyone who will ever stop me from building a dialogue in Serbia. So I ask – how many congregations are there in Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10293	Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10294	You've had a lot of time since 2000 to determine all the tenants' congregations. I'll answer you. So no law you've defined has, unfortunately, been able to make a list of the tenants. By passing this law, which brings together three housing laws, Serbia will finally have a list of residents' congregations, i.e. the number of tenants' congregations and additional buildings. You had, not just enough time for that, time to never get into this situation to read that the facades were falling and the children were dying. You've had as much time for all 12 years as you've been in power, directly, indirectly, whatever, and you haven't done it. As for your struggle, I respect that very much, and that is why I am very sorry that the House Act, where for the first time we have, say, victims of family and partner violence, is recognised in a particular kind of social assistance for the use of social housing. For example, you wrote for that member of the law – it is deleted. That fight you're talking about doesn't show up in a piece called the House Act. This law, first of all, should help citizens to live in normal maintenance buildings and that we all finally know the answers to all the questions we couldn't get while others were in power.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10295	Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will work today even after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word has a national emissary Sonja Pavlovic. Here you go. SONJA PAVLOVIĆ: Thank you very much, I welcome all guests and Mrs. Zorana Mihajlović. I must express my dissatisfaction, why so many laws are joined in one debate. I was trying to find a common denominator for all these laws, the only common denominator is the Ministry of Construction, Spatial Planning and Infrastructure. However, each of these laws requires decent treatment and serious debate, so that this package, which we have been given today to discuss, six laws, can only be an expression of the desire not to discuss them too much, so that the public finds out as little about them as possible. For this very reason, I am speaking to the citizens of Serbia, with a message that the DJB parliamentary group will do everything in these congregation misunderstandings, in order to make the topics they are most interested in, because they are also in their private lives, available to the public. Respected citizens of Serbia, the Law on Housing and Building Maintenance begins, as one lyrical introduction on maintaining housing development, improving housing conditions, as well as improving the value of housing and energy efficiency, as well as reducing negative environmental impacts. I really think that it's all right and that we need to have such a law, and it would function perfectly, as it is in the state, in some Switzerland, or in Austria. Unfortunately, the situation on the ground is not so with us, and the law is not adapted to the real needs and opportunities of Serbian citizens. I would like to think that the unconscious legislator has made this law, which we call in the work title, as the law of four injustices, and about these injustices committed to the citizens of Serbia, I would also like to inform the citizens of Serbia. Four injustices are: injustices related to reducing the number of recognised members of the family household, injustices related to the maintenance of buildings, injustices related to social housing and injustices related to protected tenants. Namely, the proposed definition of this law, the circle of members of the household, reduces the circle of recognised household members compared to earlier laws, as members do not enter, spouses are excluded and the children of the tenants and the grandchildren of the tenants living in the same family household are excluded. This creates further consequences in the structures and squares of the apartments that the current tenants are getting for the move. The injustices that are related to building maintenance, we think that all these three managers, so we have a simple manager, we have a forced manager, and we have a professional manager, and I don't see any reason why these administrators' powers would be different. So they're supposed to be doing the same job. The law does not need to stand, and should now, in particular, indicate the jurisdiction of an ordinary administrator and the jurisdiction of a professional or forced manager. Obligations in building management and maintenance have only the owners of special and independent parts, as well as tenants in public property for an indefinite period of time. It's enough for the building manager to keep track of these faces. So the building manager should keep records of owners, special and independent parts, and renters of the apartment in public property indefinitely. There is no provision of this law established the need for the building manager to keep records of persons who are tenants or other renters, unless tax control is intended to be carried out through the building manager for renting apartments. If, on the other hand, it is the intention of the legislator to carry out tax controls through the building manager, it should be explicitly regulated. I would like Mrs. Mihajlovic to explain that part to me. The next part of the housing injustice may have accidentally come into the law, since the decision of the congregation of the residential community could also be made without the consent of individual owners of specific parts. Article 43 of this Act provides for a majority decision. In view of the provisions of Article 47 of the Law, which provides for the solidarity of the owner of specific parts for the non-fulfilment of the contractual obligations of the residential community, the taking of credit by the residential community could fall in general on the burden of the owners of specific parts that are opposed to the taking of credit. The housing community is not intended to have revenue higher than the necessary costs of managing and maintaining the building, I hope that's where we agree. It's not a profit-oriented organization. Consequently, there is no income from which credit could be returned, and the possibility of taking credit must absolutely be prevented from making it possible for people who owned special units to return credit, which they were not at all agreed to take. In that same part of the law, there is a provision that the passage through a special part of the building can be constitutionally justified only if there is no other way to repair or maintain. In fact, we insist on standing up like that. The law says when necessary. What does that mean necessary? It's always necessary to do something that can be compromised. But if there's another way to do it without damaging private property, then that's how it should be done. What does that mean in practice? Here, you can't solve the facade any other way, set up the skeleton, set up the auto-lifter, and only if you can't do that, then you have the right to access through the private property of the owner of the special units. The most interesting part, and what I would like with the attention to be followed, is part of Article 61 that I have heard on the Committee that very proud members of the Ministry are on that part, which dealt with this Law, which actually refers to the different heights of housing fees in different urban areas of the city. This means, for example, that the owners of special units in the narrow city zone will pay more funds to maintain their special housing units, and they will necessarily be forced to move on by the inability of very difficult living conditions in these times. I once again ask the legislator, because I believe this is a very far-reaching and controversial political decision that requires a broad and transparent social debate, and an economic and social analysis of the effects. Practically, the door is opened to the genitalisation and ghettoisation of settlements and discrimination against poor populations. We believe that the state co-financing of activities to improve looks, as well as the energy efficiency of the building, to which this member is bound, in today's social circumstances, is more appropriate to the measure of public policy than the state's coercion. A third group of these injustices that I want to believe have been done unwittingly are injustices relating to social housing. In my opinion, it's a phantom member of the 78th of this law. A phantom member for whom our work title is “Savavala”, or “Belgrade on Water”. I suppose reactions to what I have now said that we are all obsessed with "Belgrade on Water", but the government is obsessed with previous governments and previous authorities, we are obsessed with "Belgrade on Water" in our exhibitions. In this article where the talk of emigration and the reasons for emigration is very clear, there is something that I can only lead under "Belgrade on Water". I didn't predict the removal of this member because I think he can handle himself more humanely. I didn't see it coming, because there are parts of the members that can be applied to other things. In point (3) of point 2 of this Article, the relocation shall take place as part of the preparation for the implementation of the investment project and, if previously demonstrated, there shall be no alternative to moving. That's the part that's a full pilot project. Why do I insist on "Belgrade on Water" and "Savamali"? I believe that the pilot is the project and that it will be a model for all other investment projects in order to achieve public interest. Still, we shouldn't act and put it into the law by saying that we're dealing with the issue of social housing. What is important, specifically in “Savaala”? Here we have apartments that are not legalized and objects that are in the process of legalization. How could we possibly have evicted if no solution had been obtained that the legalisation process or approval had been completed? The fourth point, that is, my fourth point, and in some ways the injustices of this law are protected tenants. You see, gentlemen, the state of Serbia has wronged apartment owners 50, 60 years ago. Do you think it is necessary to correct the injustice committed by the state 50 and 60 years ago by correcting the injustice of the new tenants? I believe, as well as the DJB parliamentary group, that it really shouldn't have any serious authority to do so. What's the reason for what I'm saying? Under this new law, the lease increases by 200 percent plus. People who live in these apartments, protected tenants who are in serious years, pensioners who have reduced pensions like that, as much as it doesn't seem to be much I can't stand. They'll move into apartments, they don't know where the move is, and it's delayed for 2016, so we have another example of forced migration. The state is reducing citizens' rights by putting the fate of protected residents in the hands of municipal and city officials, violating the Constitution of Serbia and the European Convention on Human Rights, which guarantee that everyone has the right to decide on its rights an independent court. Discrimination of those who inherit immobility is also linked to this group of protected tenants. So if someone in any part of Serbia has inherited some immovable property that can be incoherent, it has no right to receive an adequate housing unit. How inadequate these housing units are is a big question mark, because there the legislator has a little vaguely determined the area, the structure of the apartments. I think that part of the law should go back to work. What is my proposal for this particular situation? If we think like human beings, we can't say that we're going to have 40-year-old loans with 40-year-olds paid off to people who are 80 years old. Less or less the age structure is like that. The following is the proposal, I suppose you'll agree with me, should not bear the consequences of this injustice 60 years ago protected tenants, should not be borne by the owners of the apartments, they should indeed receive in the name of the rent adequate value. How can that be solved? The state should pay the bill and accept this legacy that has indeed been a legacy since 60 years ago, but I must tell the ruling majority as representatives of the government, you gentlemen have accepted a project called "Serbia" in a country where the continuity of life has Serbian citizens. You accepted this project with all its pluses and all its minuses. You can deal with this project or you can't handle it. If you can handle it, I will commend it, and if you can't handle it, then leave it to the legal, democratic ways of others, but don't let what happened 60 years ago be the mistake of previous authorities, and that's why the citizens of Serbia suffer. Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10297	Thank you very much. First, to correct you, the Ministry of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which I am currently running, and today as minister of the ministry, is called the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure, not the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning. (Radomir Milojic: This is very important. Yes, that's very important. (Radomir Milojic: It is very important, most important. ) Yes, it is important because this is a government that now has its own composition, and when it is perhaps another government then it may call its own ministries by another name. Furthermore, when you talk about how the housing law begins, you say – we have lyrically expressed ourselves. All you've listed are standards, European standards related to the quality of housing and everything every housing law in one serious and modern state should contain. The injustices you mention, I have to explain them, first of all, for the citizens of Serbia, which is to go first with the wardens, so we'll get to the protected tenants. You are talking about the powers of the manager and why this authority of the manager, or those of the administrators who will be chosen from the very congregation of residents, so from the members of the building itself or the owner of the apartment, they do not receive any compensation until professional managers who meet certain conditions are trained in the Chamber of Commerce, therefore both the license and possibly if they want a certain residential facility, become professional managers in that residential facility. So they can and don't have to, it's not mandatory. Also, you said this would be an extra tax check. You know who's doing tax controls, they're tax inspectors, it certainly doesn't work, and it's not part of the work of this law, nor are professional managers doing it. You're talking about the relationship between protected tenants and owners. First of all, to make it clear to all, and to the citizens of Serbia who often listen to these two concepts – protected tenants and owners, protected tenants for many years, almost 70 years and slightly less live in dwellings that are not owners, so they live in apartments where they have very small tenants and it is simply unfair and unfair compared to those who are the true owners of these apartments. We are talking, first of all, about apartments and buildings in the central city zones, at that time, when they were getting these apartments, which was first of all Belgrade and a few other cities. Last year we passed a law to record, that we know at all what the number of apartments where protected tenants and owners exist, and that law has given us records that the total number of tenants in unspecified time on our country's territory is 1,489, of which is 1,402 in Belgrade, and this is the central city zone, meaning that it is the first zone, Therazia, etc. Our interest, however conflicted interests both sides are, is to try to find a common denominator, to help those who are the owners of the apartments, to get and to return to their apartments, but also to get an adequate apartment, as all citizens or most citizens of Serbia bought at some of the previous laws at very favourable prices. When you talk about the discriminatory relationship and the lease that the tenants will now pay is inappropriate and that the difference should be paid by the state, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and I as a resolution minister, we do not think that we can constantly burden the state with all things. This is the best way to solve it in the second way, in the way the law is proposed. But because of the public, an example of an apartment, for example, in Knez Michael Street of 76 square meters, a protected tenant who got to use that apartment on Knez Michael Street, in the central city zone, today pays, in accordance with the current law, a rent of 9,000 dinars. With the draft law we are discussing today, it will be paid by 18,000 dinars and will be in the process that local self-government, the city of Belgrade, will provide an adequate apartment that he will later be able to buy. If we were to observe the market value of the lease, if that apartment were on the market, or if it was paid at market prices, that amount would be at least 49,000 dinars. So in the past 50, 60 years, the tenants who are protected are, you have to admit, we're not talking to anyone now or anyone else, whether by mistake, guilt, etc., but they've had the defacto benefit of what's called life in the central city zones by very, very low rents. Whatever it is behind us, it's a situation that needs to be resolved. The way we think it's fairest is to give local self-government the opportunity to solve it. We've been running ourselves, too, only to the standards in the housing that exist. This means that exactly the apartments that protected tenants, as we call them today, will be obtained from local self-government – is based on 30 meters square plus 15 square meters for a member of the household, so the three-member household will have 60 meters of square flats, which will have the opportunity to buy it and become its property. When you talk about how long these people live, they have their heirs and these heirs also have the right to these apartments. Today, however, we have a situation that in apartments where protected tenants who do not own apartments, people from one or two household members are located at 150, 200, and more square meters. I would not agree with you that it is discrimination, but an attempt to finally solve the problem that touches, practically, both. You said that the state coercion is that we have put the energy efficiency issue very important and that we have to do everything together and that often it is not only local self-government or housing, that we have to increase energy efficiency and that we have to view energy efficiency through the law as a public interest, allowing co-financing, increasing energy efficiency can now help both the state and all other institutions and bodies. As for social housing and that so-called. The phantom member, as you call it, which I do not understand at all, for the first time in this law, and that is where we have also consulted the European Commission, for the first time in this law in Serbia we have exactly divided and clearly defined the process and the process of migration. It often happens to us, let's say, when it comes to the Roma families, we have a problem with the homeless, but for the first time in that member, we have covered it in accordance with all European standards, European statutes, the International Charter of Respect for Human Rights, so we have not put anything here that is against or which has not included such an important charter on the protection of human rights, because we care that we have such a thing in this law, because it can often be a problem. When you look at this article 78, then you have to read it from the beginning, where it's very nice in the first sentence to say, "The eviction of a person from an object that's built contrary to the law that regulates the planning of space and the construction of buildings and which is located on the ground in the property of another natural or legal person," so it applies, first of all, to such types of objects, to this process of eviction, which is very clear, to the point specified. And I'd say it's much better than if it wasn't defined so clearly as we wanted it to be. I think these are the basic objections you've given to the law, speaking of injustices. Our opinion is that this law, on the contrary, finally introduces order and finally solves the decades of injustices that existed and allows us to have one stable housing policy that we haven't had so far, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10298	Thank you. Replica, the word has a folk MP, Sonja Pavlovic. Here you go. SONA PALOVIĆ: I would first like to correct you in one piece that I did not say so. I didn't say your intentions were for the management to exercise tax control through the warden. I specifically said – if that is the intention, these are two different words, the legislator of the law that tax control is being carried out through the building manager, this would need to be explicitly regulated. So, it's not like it's going through something that we can't understand, but the legislator and those who respect the law, who talk about it, obviously read the laws differently. What's the matter with this article 78? We made a lot of amendments under this law, they weren't malignancies, we wanted to improve it, and as far as we did, we'll see. So, emigration. You just read the first article, and I'll read the last one. The move procedure referred to in Articles 1 and 2 of this Article shall not affect the procedure for the legalisation of illegally built objects, in accordance with the provisions of the law governing the law of the objects. The way I read it, it means I can't have faces being evicted unless the process of legalizing that object is complete. So we have to make a solution so that the faces will be evicted, not just later when we move our faces, we give them solutions that the legal process is over. Thank you. Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Stefan Miladanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10300	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, guests from the Ministry, we have some very important laws ahead of us. Some of these laws have a direct impact on our daily lives, and we'll all agree here in the O.R., and require full attention from the MPs, as well as the public. At the very beginning, I would refer briefly to two agreements concerning the areas of traffic. The first multilateral agreement on commercial rights in emergency air traffic is extremely important, it will facilitate the operations of air carriers operating both in air-tax traffic and emergency medical transport, emergency charter transport or transport of shipments and cargo. This is important for these economic operators as it will make their business easier. Another extremely important agreement that truly deserves both praise and support is an agreement relating to the Central Office of the Trans-European Railway Project. The establishment of trans-European networks is foreseen by the Treaty on European Community and it is little known that even Chapter 21 in EU accession actually refers to European trans-European transport networks, trans-European energy networks and telecommunications networks. As it has been estimated by the UN Economic Commission that Serbia has the capacity to host this office, I really believe that the contribution to the development of rail transport in the region will certainly be in good hands and I believe this is extremely important, not only for the state, but for our experts, especially in the railway area. When it comes to the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Goods, at the very beginning I want to point out that transport itself as an economic activity represents perhaps the most significant dynamic process, necessary for both the social and economic development of each country. To organise any kind of transport, in particular the transport of dangerous substances, is a complex and demanding system that must contain clear procedures and rules from different fields and responsibilities and professionalism of all participants in this process, responsible management and certainly a state that must be responsible for monitoring. Modern society knows several different transport models. It's primarily road, rail, water and air traffic, definitely combined, but there's also pipe traffic. Unlike road, rail, water and air traffic and combined, this pipe is excluded in the context of the transport of dangerous substances. The fact that dangerous substances in their properties, which are both toxicity and radioactivity, but also in their reactions, such as explosives or inflammation, can cause enormous material damage, endanger human health, human safety and the environment, make this kind of transport specific and much more demanding. After World War II, there was a need in the international community to regulate and define the ways in which dangerous materials will be transported. The primary task was to ensure prevention, i.e. to prevent the uncontrollable release of hazardous substances into the environment. International organisations and their regulatory bodies have approached the adoption of a global regulatory alignment with all international documents, the implementation of these regulations at national level, and thus a uniform legal framework has been established to protect both human and environmental life from all harmful effects. There are a number of normative and legal acts on the international agenda that regulate the transport of dangerous substances, whether it be conventions, different declarations, resolutions, international contracts and other legal acts. For us, the most important international agreements, in the context of this law, since they cover rail, water and air traffic, are primarily known ADRs, and the ADR is a European agreement on international transport of dangerous goods in road transport, which represents a basic international agreement that regulates overall transport in road transport and is practically used throughout the world. Another important international agreement is the Convention on International Railway Transport, which has been modified several times, and is particularly important for the International Regulation on the transport of dangerous goods by rail, known as the RID. The third agreement is an internal waterway agreement, an important European agreement on the international transport of dangerous cargo to internal waterways, which was adopted in 2000. On the basis of these three and some other international agreements, the EU has also adopted several directives, whose adoption has in fact made all the regulations an integral part of national legislation and practically applies in the territories of all EU Member States. In recent years, our legislation on the transport of hazardous substances has been seeking to fully comply with the prescribed world standards, so by ratifying these agreements, but also by adopting a new Law on the transport of dangerous goods in 2011 and by harmonising other system laws, not only in the area of traffic, but also by adopting a number of sublegal acts, we have begun the process of forming a modern system in the management of dangerous goods transport. At that time, the law, in 2011, introduced numerous newspapers and was practically newspapers for both the profession and the state, since 20 and a few years, until 2011, did not deal with state modernisation of these regulations. So that, in the exercise of administrative supervision, supervision was then entrusted and the Transport Administration was established, various transport permits and procedures were introduced. The Institute of Security Advisors in the transport of dangerous cargo has also been introduced. Of course, this law demanded further alignments and additions and removals of individual solutions, such as provisions concerning transport insurance, as they proved to be unsupervised. Therefore, the adoption of a new law for the SPS parliamentary group, as stated in the explanation, and as we had the opportunity to hear, is certainly acceptable. This new law introduces all relevant secondary sources of communal law. Instead of the term "transport freight", the term "transport goods", which implies a number of operations in the transport process itself, a slightly different institutional setting, is abolished by this Transport Administration, and it is understandable why it must be as a sector within the Ministry of Traffic Affairs. Control over the application of the law, also inspection, has suffered some changes, but what is good and what we welcome is that some of the solutions introduced by the previous law have also been introduced and the provisions that have had a positive application. The new law in a comprehensive way harmonizes all international documents and regulations, as I said, and I finally believe that this law will round up the system of traffic management of dangerous goods. Every type of traffic, of all three that are subject to this law, has its specificity in relation to the safety of shipments and risk projections depends on a number of factors and it is perfectly understandable to group the provisions according to the types of traffic in the law itself. Transporting dangerous substances is a type of transport that is linked to the greatest risks, with potentially high risks, not to say the greatest adverse consequences, not only for human health but also for the environment, and can certainly cause major material damage. In order to achieve maximum safety of people and the environment and traffic in the transport of these dangerous goods and subjects with hazardous substances, it is necessary that all participants in the process respect legal regulations and apply preventive protection measures at work. They must be in line with the nature of the hazardous material being transported and the degree of its danger. Also, these measures are permeated throughout the law and are in line with the directives, and they have a preventive function. The purpose of all this is to avoid any incident situations. They, although they don't happen often, can cause, as we said, great losses and it's important that all procedures are respected in this regard. Dangerous substances in the environment, as a rule, reach out quickly and present the current and visible fact, so we can say that the system of transport of hazardous material is also linked to the environmental management system. The reactions themselves to the incidents that result in this fact currently require a formal system of measures in response to incidents and they are independable from the organisational functioning of the competent services and in the defence systems and in the security system. The responses to accidents are regulated by other system laws, not only by traffic laws, but by the Transport of Dangerous Goods Act, in this sense, has a purely preventive role. In order to prevent and respond in time to the incidents, I would like to point out that there are advanced modern systems in the world, and these systems that control the vehicles themselves that carry dangerous substances. With us, as we have information, in rail and water traffic, to some extent these modern systems are being applied. What we lack as a state is a unique map that defines routes that can move vehicles that transport dangerous goods in road traffic. To transport goods in road transport, the biggest risks are associated because this type of traffic, I would say, is the most elastic, in this sense the most difficult to control because of the density of the travel network. In addition to these maps that contribute to more efficient and safer transport, there are numerous examples of reinforced controls of the vehicles themselves passing through populated areas. In addition to the national infrastructure network, there are different monitoring models. I point out this as a topic perhaps for local self-government, especially for the city of Belgrade, which is a hub of networks, roads and railways, and in it we are witnessing, and water and rail traffic is taking place. It's similar when it comes to the city of Novi Sad and the city of Nis. Given the reputation of world cities, I believe this would be interesting for cities and perhaps in the coming decades they could improve their systems and that a dangerous burden that passes through their inhabited places and controls. The fact is that absolute protection against accidents in the transport of these goods does not exist, but it can be concluded that security is achieved and increased overall traffic security by improving and transport infrastructure, by professional training. An important role, as I said at the outset, has also been played by the state in terms of strict control and supervision, but the introduction of new monitoring and control systems by the state can contribute greatly to security in general. Finally, when it comes to this law, I want to conclude that this is another step towards modernising our systems by managing this transport, and it is certain that in the coming years, if we do nothing else to bring this law into line with all future standards. When it comes to housing and building maintenance, I would say at the very beginning that the very fact that this is an extraordinary life theme. Clear and justifiable by this law, i.e. This bill also challenges parliament, and in the public after more than two decades of applying the applicable rules and many problems in which colleagues have spoken before us, there is a whole new law that should in a comprehensive way regulate this area and in a certain way set up a more efficient and comprehensive system of governance and maintenance of residential and residential business facilities, as well as public purposes. The housing proposal provides for three key newspapers. Each building will have its manager next year, all tenants will have to bear the obligation and responsibility for maintaining the buildings they live in, and the landlords will no longer be able to avoid paying taxes on not renting an apartment, thus far the budget of the Republic of Serbia has been quite damaged. In addition, some newspapers, a residential community as an organisation of apartment owners, other special and common parts of the building are being introduced, this bill gives a full legal personality, so that it is now an equal bearer of rights and obligations in all legal relations in order to manage and maintain the building more effectively. Also, it is good to have a register of buildings, i.e. a unique record of housing units to be run by the Agency for Temporary Registers. One of the reasons why this law is passed is that there are already natural and legal persons on the market dealing with building management, so it is good that there are these solutions, because so far it has been recorded in practice that there are natural and legal persons dealing with them, but with their jurisdiction, or obligations define them in any way. Certainly the bill introduces the Institute of Professional Managers, we also welcome the voluntary principle, when it comes to the engagement of these managers, it is good that it allows the housing community to organise itself. We also consider it a good solution that owners of their apartments, their rights and obligations regarding governance and maintenance can regulate the rule of mutual relations. After seven decades, the issue of protected residents, i.e. the holder of tenants' rights relating to citizens who are after World War II, is finally resolved as tenants emigrated to private property indefinitely, as well as those citizens living in the premises of the employment and foundation. It should be pointed out here that the government has made one balance taking care of both the owners and the protected tenants. I would like to remind you that the Restitution Act 2011, too, provided that the new Housing Act deals with these issues. It has joined seriously, in our opinion, this decades-old problem, where citizens don't really have any responsibility, because all responsibility was actually in the state, which my colleague Nedjo Jovanovic will talk about in more detail. What is of particular importance to the SPS is certainly the fact that this bill puts a special accent on social housing, i.e. housing support. We will agree that the right to an adequate space for housing is, in fact, part of the basic needs of life, and it is therefore the establishment of a minimum for the resolution of the housing needs of this group of citizens of great importance that the Constitution, and laws, and many international legal acts that are an integral part of our legislation are bound to do so. Also, this is about harmonising with the Istanbul Convention, which we ratified in 2013, which defines the obligations of the signatories' states to provide housing for victims of domestic violence or violence in partner relations and presents the country's response when it comes to supporting victims of violence. The fact that a year in public, an intensive debate is being held on this law, that all interested parties were involved in the regulation process. If the proponent had heard, even at the beginning of the year, the first proposal was withdrawn from the procedure in order to adopt some other solutions and the fact that the 27 institutions gave a positive opinion on this law, the proponent said he had made a great effort to resolve these issues. With respect to the different attitudes and stakeholders and MP groups that are discussing this law today, I really want to say that this is an extremely important law, that it needs to be regulated and that this is not an area that needs to be politicised in any way. Another very important law that directly affects the lives of each of us and the normal functioning of the local community is the Law on Community Works. This area is governed by a number of regulations. The extremely wide spectrum covers various activities from water supply and heating, public transport organisation, public space cleanliness and so on. In order to avoid so far different interpretations and different practices regarding the understanding of the content and obligation to provide municipal services, this bill gives for the first time an explanation of the meaning of this obligation by not only defining these activities as certain municipal activities but also as an activity to strengthen the capacity and functionality of municipal infrastructure, activities to monitor the quality of municipal services, as well as taking measures to continuously carry out municipal activities in order to ensure the living needs of the local community. The current practice of the functioning of municipal systems has also shown some shortcomings in the efficiency and rationalisation of municipal enterprises but in the quality of their services. If we were to ask citizens, we would probably have a number of objections to each part of these municipal systems and, nevertheless, these citizen objections, but also negative experiences by the companies themselves, should be an incentive to improve these services. Of course, making sure that the prices of their services have to be formed so that they are acceptable for citizens and economically profitable for businesses as well. The entry of the private sector into the area of municipal services in some areas has improved the quality of the services themselves while, unfortunately, it has only increased prices in others. The analysis of the effects of the current regulations has shown the need to upgrade and improve the legal framework of this sector in order to open the door to different property and institutional business models. The bill also introduces clearer and more transparent procedures for the confidence of municipal activities and other legal persons. What is particularly important is to say that new solutions strengthen environmental protection and human health instruments through clearly prescribed control instruments to carry out inspections. The inspection will also enable the gradual alignment of business with economic principles through supervision and provide equal conditions for all users of municipal services. We also welcome the combined ownership models of utility companies with of course the appeal for price and quality ratio to be optimal. Since the introduction of the private sector into municipal activity, we also expect the provision of conditions for their long-term sustainable business without budgetary interventions or subsidies. This implies that service providers should finance not only current expenditure but also capital investments in investment and equipment and municipal infrastructure facilities from their own incomes. Regardless of the state-owned model, it must establish mechanisms for the development and use of trusted infrastructure resources, i.e. to extend space for the operation of the public undertakings themselves, which could, in addition to the basics, carry out even a series of related or complementary activities, which would allow for independent financing not only of budget. A number of opportunities are available and modern practice of developed countries has confirmed this, for example, city markets can be a kind of producer, processing and placement of agricultural and other products that are placed on markets or can collect plant residues that now relate to dumps and instead recycle them. Fruit and vegetable surpluses that, with small investment investments, pack and place themselves and make extra money from tetrapacks. If we trust them with the possibility that all of this applies to dumps, why not expand their performance or allow them to expand their actions? In any case, our parliamentary group has considered all the draft laws. In voting day, we will support them, and my colleagues will talk about other laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10301	Thank you, colleague Miladanovic. Before we move to the order of MPs according to the application for a word, I ask if any of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word and who has not used his right? The word is Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10302	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Madam Minister, based on your statement, I have a relaxed state. Namely, I am not a presidential candidate like my colleague Obradovic. Our presidential candidate, and we hope, most Serbian citizens, will be the party's president, Professor Vojislav Seselj. Since you have made a brief comment that political views are being expressed here, the largest number of MPs are being held as representatives of certain political parties, and I guess that's not prohibited. Now I'd like to say a little bit about the merger of these eight legal proposals. I'm going to use some geographical concepts, and you know what this is about. Eight of these legal proposals are common as the altitude of Loznica 142 metres and one mountain near Ljubovija, Tornička Bobby, 1272 metres. What's in common? In common, these two words are above sea level. In the case of these eight legislative proposals, the bill is common. The proposal for a law on airport management and a bill on the validation of a multilateral agreement on commercial rights in the emergency air transport in Europe could be said to have a lot of common ground and perhaps could be considered together. Proposal for a law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China on the mutual abolition of visas for holders of ordinary passports, which is something the SRS spoke of two decades ago, to whom we should turn, with which we should make both political and economic and any other possible co-operation. It was contagious at the time, and it wasn't very acceptable for those of you who are today pushing for good, I'd say, extremely good co-operation, and that's fine. This is an agreement that indeed, and at the price of the representatives of the SRS, has its good qualities. I will share my time at my disposal both physically and in such a way and deliver an opinion on behalf of the SRS. Proposal for a law on airport management. It doesn't say anywhere – privatisation of the airport, but you pointed out, on the contrary, some MPs interpreted it as if it were or as if we wanted to prevent it. There are around 40 in Serbia, in particular 39 airports. Some are military, some are civilian, some are combined, some are sporting and this bill, which you have sent to the National Assembly, is mostly the most relevant and treats the problem of "Nikola Tesla" Belgrade and the airport. I certainly know that such a law would never be passed because of the Valjev airport, or the Divez airport. You said what you were going to do, you said that you were planning to, that is, that the Public Enterprise of Serbia was established to help those airports as well. Of course that's good. First of all, I urge that speedy approaches be made to rehabilitating and cleaning up the remains of the 1999 bombing from the Ponikva airport, although the state of Serbia has taken certain measures and should not be made blind, as if nothing was done. The airport has great importance for all Western Serbia and some funds have been invested. There is still a lot of funding to be provided so that the airport can be brought into the desired position. It would lead to an accelerated district development of areas, i.e. municipalities and cities in Serbia. There is one thing, Madam Minister, in which I will fully support you. You said this morning that some laws had changed here in front of the assembly door. That's quite true, and I support you there, but then I thought that you were not a member of the SRS, so I know for sure that you were never that, but you were one party that had just had the opportunity to prevent such a thing from happening and there was no consolation that you later disputed certain things, declaring them very harmful to the citizens of Serbia, but we are here with you completely agreeable, and that was indeed the case. In 2013, special attention was paid to the already mentioned airport at Užica "Ponikeva", even the parachute jumps An-2 was present. It's an aircraft of Russian production used mostly in the present time for parachute jumps. When I said that this law observes two airports, I don't think the others need to pay attention and that they won't work on it, but you see how interesting it is – a public-private partnership. It will produce some results, and counterpart Jovanovic said that in his local self-government, or in his municipality, concrete good results are already seen. Do you know that there may be a reverse process of private-public partnership? You, as Minister of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure, know that there is one bridge on the border, on the Drina, on the border of two municipalities, or one municipality and one town of Bogatic and Bijeljin, in the town of Vadovnci, and never the one who built that bridge thought of entering a public-private relationship, or public-private partnership to make a greater profit. No, there's no need. The privatisation process, for us to understand, is something that has gone and something that can't be stopped and that shouldn't be stopped. We're principled for privatisation. Not all resources, of course. There are some capital values, capital investments and resources that, even in countries that are long ago in capitalism, have long privatised everything that had to be privatized, but certain resources remain state-owned, so that's how it should be done here. For Serbian citizens, the word "privatisation" immediately implies robbery, and that's not always the case. Unfortunately, it's a small number, but we have examples of well-privatised former social enterprises. Unfortunately, there aren't many of them. What makes it very interesting for investors, i.e. people who would like to privatise or be partners at Belgrade airport? You yourself said, Madam Minister, that less than two million passengers used to use the airport's services, and today over four million people on an annual basis use "Nikola Tesla" services, and then, of course, there is an explosion in their desire to privatise it or to contact that airport in any way, that is to say, to be able to realise their economic activity through that airport. Your desire to improve airports, i.e. to respond to the demands that appear in the world, is in place, but it could also be realised by a law that regulates the area of air traffic, which is the Air Traffic Act that already exists. We are overwhelmed by the laws of special purposes or special laws, and perhaps you have consciously done this and called it the Airport Management Act, referring to all airports in Serbia, and above all is thought of only one and perhaps two. When you say in Article 7 of this law how and in what way the operator, who is in charge of organising everything that is the obligation of an airport, you list what he needs to do, that's understood. You can say it's out of the question, and how has it been, before this law? Someone talked about it today. There is a possibility of expropriation of land due to airport infrastructure, so you said – it is good to make hotels, motels, malls within the airport. Yes, and that's exactly why I'm telling you -- the increase in passengers from two to four million opens huge appetites in people who wanted to get involved here, but never can and never enough is just a wish on one side, but it has to be supported by someone who exercises public authority. You yourself said you were not satisfied with the privatisation, either by attempt or by someone else's desire to privatise the Belgrade airport in 2003, because they were involved or at least supported by some of the ministers at the time. We do not suffer from conspiracy theory, but we are absolutely certain that today is similar, or perhaps even the same situation, but if the infrastructure is to be built to make these airports more successful, then you in Article 15 say who can invest everything in this infrastructure, so now, depending on who has and manages the airport, but at one point it is said that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, an autonomous province or local self-government, can also intervene with their resources, unless there is sufficient possibility of an operator, a concessionaire, who has an ambition or intention to train that airport, or make it a business better and put it in a better position. Serbia has good travel. Simply, it is located in such a place that it has good travel traffic, certainly air traffic is, perhaps even in the first place, and an increasing number of people living fast, fast working, fast and creating, the only way their travel is to fly. Of course managing the airport is a big advantage. It wouldn't be too controversial if everything was okay, and you're gonna tell us it's all right, so how come it's not, and you're gonna tell us that someone once challenged something that you as a government intended to do, and you said it could and must. Anything almost can, but it's only a matter of price. In Part Two, I'm going to talk about the House and Building Maintenance Act. You are today, and now I will make a small joke, and let me say, you have forbidden the mention of the perpetrators, but I see them there. I see them, you didn't literally ban them, but you said – there's nothing even in front of, in front of the draft, nobody mentioned private perpetrators. I see them, because in one period our citizens owed a lot of money on the basis of housing, based on Infostan and other public services, and then, even their small expenses, which they couldn't pay with the help of these perpetrators in good time, they were charged, and they were, not to say tenfold, but much more expensive than they should have paid, and than there were any possibilities. When 10 billion new borrowings didn't help us, when it didn't help us, or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, when it didn't help to raise taxes in general and special rates, when neither did judicial perpetrators, or private perpetrators, then we said – let's change the House Act a little bit, let's pass a law on airport management in order to further fill the register. It sounds offensive when someone says -- we'll raise pensions to pensioners from January 1st 2017 by 1.5%, that would mean if I loaned Zoran Zivkovic some amount of cash, 100 cash units, and give him back 20, and I say, I'm going to increase your property Conto now. This is the case with the promise you make to both the pensioners and the citizens of Serbia. In this part so much, in the second part we'll talk about other laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10303	Thank you. Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10304	Let me start with the way you see it in this law, it doesn't say in the law, but you see those forced perpetrators. I see something completely different in this law. I see clear provisions that will allow us to have neat, clean buildings, elevators that work, facades that are arranged, painted, and one normal picture at all, as we should have in all residential buildings, and that is what stands as a result of members of this law, and indeed not only not mentioned, but no such thing exists in any proposal. Secondly, you're saying that we're changing these laws a little bit, because of all sorts of different interests, that's how it goes. These laws are important, I repeat once again, and I will repeat as many times as it takes, to make order and set up a system and to do, especially when we talk about amendments and additions to the Law on Public-private Partnership and concessions, to make myself a process of implementing concessions or public-private partnerships even clearer and to ensure greater security. The greatest possible security we can, if we can do it, and by this law, we can do it. Also, you say that at the Airport Management Act, it applies only to two airports, to "Nikola Tesla" Airport and Nis. No, this law applies to everything, but what wasn't, and that could have been done under the Air Traffic Act, let me tell you right away – no, because the very activity of airport management was not precisely defined by the Air Traffic Act. We want everything that is in this area, and especially the activity of the airport management, to be really the most precise possible order, precisely because of all possible future operations related to the airports themselves. The difference between these two airports and other airports certainly exists because these first two airports "Nikola Tesla" and Nis have regular traffic, these other airports do not have regular traffic. Our interest is to try to raise as many airports as possible, so to speak, that certain traffic can be made on them. Now it's on the Pontiacs, like I said, messed up, and we're hoping that we can solve this problem, so it's gonna be regular traffic on the Pontiacs. But not just at him, but at other smaller airports. You also said that by adopting this law on airports, it will practically invest itself only, potentially, to invest additionally in "Nikolo Tesla" and Nis, and here, let's say, will not invest in Valjevo. I'm telling you again, our intensity in the air traffic strategy, in the strategy of this government's traffic, in the Air Traffic Act, this air traffic law, is exactly the goal of all the airports that we have, which could be used, and they're not, trying to bring their purpose, as much as possible, because certain interests, above all, exist. Secondly, "Nikola Tesla" airport increases the number of passengers, that is correct and we are somewhere on the capacity line. Therefore, if this trend continues, and all projections say it will, then we have to think about that we will have to invest much, much more money than it has been before at Nicole Tesla Airport. So, if there are thoughts, we too must be prepared in a legislative framework for any kind of thinking, in order to develop further. Not get to one line and stay here somewhere. Also, you're saying that you just pointed out, and you don't mind any privatisations, we'll see what it looks like and how we'll try to raise the capacity of "Nikola Tesla" airport. For now, we just, once again, have a consultant, talk and expect all potential, possible variations to raise the capacity level of "Nikola Tesla", because, as you yourself said, of the two million passengers that were before 2013, we are now on the 4.87 million passengers. It's huge progress and huge growth. Therefore, we need to think strategically about what it will look like in the future. I don't want to talk about whether you're talking about editing, about the system and everything for the past two decades, I remember some of the other things your political party said, but I'm not going to comment on them right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10305	Right on the line. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10306	Let's just understand each other about these perpetrators. Nice facades, beautiful objects, beautiful our Serbia we certainly see, but you've been talking for five years about seeing it. We don't see anything yet, maybe we'll see. I'm not going to go ahead and praise you or say it won't happen, but I can see it. I guess it's my right to see those perpetrators out there, and the nature of that law is that he has them. This last thing you said, I said that we advocated co-operation, first of all with Russia, with China, with Belarus, with Brazil, with many other countries, when it was a mental noun for you and for many others. On the contrary, it was as if we were saying something that should not be said in Serbia. What makes us think that by investing funds in Nicole Tesla Airport, that's the situation? At a time when employment was banned, according to the Law adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, 623 new workers were admitted at the "Nikola Tesla" Airport and a net profit growth was made at the airport in 2010 and 2011. Then there was a sudden drop of more than 100%, 130%, in 2012, then in 2013 and then again you see two million passengers increasing, four million passengers. Then it gets bigger. There was one growth net profit at the airport in 2010 to 2011, and then the rapid decline was more than 100%, 130% 2012, then 2013 and then again. But, you see, two million passengers are increasing, four million passengers, and then it's increasing. That's what we question. And I didn't say those airports, Divi Airport, or Valjev Airport, he'd be interesting now for some passive athlete, some man who deals with parachutery, motor sailing, dragonry or something like that. Of course, it would also be interesting for some farmers who might have modelled it or for some who would have done construction or other land.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10307	Thank you, colleague Perich. Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10308	A little clarification about the number of employees at the airport. Yes, you're right, we received 623 workers who unfortunately worked for "Nikola Tesla" airport for nine to twelve years through a youth cooperative. So they've been doing jobs that represent the main activity of the airport. So it starts with safety, etc., they were held all those years by the youth cooperative, and they were part of the airport's workers. So it was necessary to exist there, they knew their job. I think it's terrible that in this way held workers for ten to twelve years, through various youth cooperatives, were practically unable to function normally and with this explanation before the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we received on the proposal from the airport and the proposal from this ministry of these people. They're not the only ones. We still have such workers, and we will see in the next period that what is the basic activity of the airport, that these people have normal jobs, and I think we'll all agree that it's a simple basic activity and that it's important. It's not some people who've been admitted to all kinds of political emergencyes, it's some people who've worked here for 12 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10309	Thank you. On what basis, Mr. Perry? (Greto Peric: Replica. You have no right on any basis. The word has the People's MP Katarina Rakic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10310	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will begin my speech today with one, I can say freely, with an extremely brave law, which is the House and Building Building Act. I can freely say that this is an extremely brave step, first of all by this government headed by Alexander Vukic, to finally stand up and finally put order into something that's been collapsing for almost two decades. It collapsed because there was no order in this area although there were even three laws that tried to legalize this area at the same time, which is the 1992 House Act, then the 1995 Building Maintenance Act and the 2011 Social Housing Act. So there were even three lists. However, none of them were clear enough, precise enough, and in addition to that, you can look at what they look like today's buildings, and in addition to that, you can know that the citizens were wandering from the counter to the counter and looking for a possible solution for their problems in the area of housing. By passing today’s laws, that is, the law on the agenda today, these three laws that I have stated will cease to apply. And what I heard from my colleagues today who said that this law might be insane, I really don't agree with that, because that's exactly what it is that needs to be done. To make a clear and precise legal regulation that will clearly and precisely define every step, everything that citizens should know, never come into a situation that they never know who to turn to and who is responsible for the situation in which our buildings are. At the very beginning, in the first provisions, in the first members, there are as many as 44 terms that define this law. So certainly no one will be able to suspect whether his building is a residential building, a building, a house or any other way defined. The second term I heard today that I didn't like is affordability. Actually, can we afford this law? I don't think it's a question of whether or not we can, I think we have to afford this law. What we can't afford is to stay in the state we're in today, because this law, more specifically these three laws that have been in force so far, has shown that this area has collapsed for decades. I'm going to go through this law one more time even though my colleagues before me talked a lot about it. I'll tell you what's new about what this law predicts. First of all, there is no record of residential buildings and housing units in Serbia. So no one's ever done that before, and I think this is exactly the way order has to be introduced. That's step one. So all local self-government will be required under this law to clearly and precisely define how many buildings there are, or how many residential communities in each building. Also some of the important facts adopted by this bill is that this law does not really generate any additional costs, and residents are certainly provided additionally. So, the tenants won't pay anything more than they've paid so far, they'll only be able to see in a more transparent way what they're paying for and what kind of service they're getting for what they're paying for. Also, this law introduces order in buildings where there is no style of tenants. So, this law no longer leaves the possibility that citizens, or tenants, will or will not pay for maintenance. This law introduces that everyone will have to pay the cost of building maintenance. Also, as we have heard, managers, or professional managers, are being introduced. Depending on how the tenants agree on each other in their building. The manager can be just one of them and run the maintenance of the building, but they can also opt for a professional manager. Something like that will cost the tenants between 200 and 300 per apartment, and certainly what he does will contribute much more than what they actually pay for. As far as the professional building managers themselves are concerned, they will have to have a license, and a record of them will be kept by the PKK and the tenants will certainly be able to choose one of them from the PKS list. Also, the law further provides for a situation where tenants cannot agree on either of them to be one of them, nor can they agree to hire a professional manager. In that case, the local self-government unit will now have records that are in the building and when they hand over the list and see that they have no manager, the local self-government unit will assign them so-called. Forced manager. That person will be on the same list that will be run by the PKS. Also, the situation itself, i.e. only the state of the forced administration, will also depend on the style of the tenants. It can last for a day, it can last for two days, and it can be permanent if they might like that forced manager that was assigned to them. The law also deals with the protection of protected tenants, and also protects the owners of those apartments where protected tenants are located. On the one hand, none of those tenants who have been in those apartments for almost 70 years will remain on the street. The local self-government of this law undertakes to provide these people with adequate accommodation, i.e. housing, for the next 10 years, with the possibility of them buying these apartments later, and on the other hand, the owners of the apartments where these protected tenants live will finally be able to enter their apartments. This law also provides for concern for all vulnerable groups. I could now say for a very long time what is good about this law, but the very fact is that a public debate has been conducted under this law and that the ministry has asked 27 different institutions for an opinion and that they have all commended and returned a positive opinion, it speaks more of it than I would say. Even many of them praised the solutions that the bill envisioned. There is one thing I would like to mention as extremely atypical, which is the behaviour of Mr. Sabic, who first gave a positive opinion on the bill, and later came forward with some remarks. Personally, I really don't expect the Commissioner for Protection against information of public importance and the protection of personal data from an ex-post mind, so to speak, but I guess he's simply not the only trustee who behaves in this way in Serbia. I suppose he's simply the spokesman for a political party. I'd still like to talk about the Community Labour Act. What are communal activity? The communal activities are the actions that allow us to have water in our apartments, to have heating, to have good public transport on the streets, to keep our streets clean, to have our parks arranged. All of these activities are very, very important for the lives and normal functioning of people, so we can certainly say that communal actions are of general interest to the citizens of Serbia. Communal activity, in addition to the roof law, the Community Labour Act, is regulated through a lot of laws. There's a lot of regulation through the area itself. Some of these laws are the Law on Public Enterprises, on the exercise of activity of general interest, the Law on Local Self-Government, the Law on capital, energy, waste water management, burial, cemetery and many others. However, what is very important to emphasise is that this area and constitutionally regulated category, and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says the unit of local self-government is obliged to provide conditions for normal functioning of municipal activities, and all in accordance with the Law on Community Works. The analysis of the law that has so far been in place, the analysis of the Law on Community Works, has indeed established many illogicalities and many irregularities. Some of them are that citizens, who are actually users of these utility services, absolutely have no impact on what they are paying for. Also, the private sector, which performs some of the municipal activities, has not been protected in any way. Thus, a lot of people, a lot of private companies doing municipal work, did not want to invest additional funds in the business, because because of the uncertainty of what would happen to them later, perhaps the species, or quality of the municipal decision itself, was worse. Of course none of the privates are going to take any chances in that bad business environment. Also, the law that is still in force has not provided any competition and what is also very important is that the existing law was not in line with a lot of sectoral laws that I initially cited. What this law takes is exactly what I've read, just the opposite. So, it needs to ensure that all of this illogicalness is corrected, and that is, above all, a clearer and more transparent procedure in which municipal action is entrusted, so that privates will no longer have the concern of what they are doing, then to provide better rights and conditions for all those who use these municipal services and, of course, to bring this area into line with other sectoral laws. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on municipal activities that lies ahead of us today, above all, wants to provide a favourable business climate for all businesses, whether they come from the public sector or come from the private sector. Also, as for the citizens themselves, i.e. the users, citizens have to pay for municipal services and pay for it, but above all, I think it would be really fair for them to choose for their money whether to pay for a more expensive service and a better quality, or perhaps to take a more favourable service, rather than impose a service which, according to what they pay, is absolutely unsuitable. It is this law that introduces what is a newspaper, which so far did not exist, which is that citizens, i.e. public service users, can finally influence the quality, i.e. the efficiency of municipal services, and that in the way that the local self-government unit, according to this law, must at least once a year publish the citizens' statement of a particular municipal service. The Local Self-Government Unit will determine whether citizens will be declared by electronic or any other means, but it must be available once a year, and if most users are not satisfied, the local self-government unit is required to carry out the procedure prior to the examination of the service company. This legislative proposal has gone to 27 addresses, and everyone has made a positive statement, but what I would like to quote is the Commission's opinion on the protection of competition, which, together with the Ministry, has been working on making this text of the law, and they say: this is the best example of joint efforts aimed at making the most qualitative rules that will ensure more effective competition on the market, which should contribute to economic progress and gain society, and especially the consumer's end. I really have nothing to add to this, except that they've really said everything here, that it's precisely the purpose of this law to make citizens more satisfied with the quality of the communal service provided. As for the other laws that are on the agenda today, I will talk about the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Goods and I want to say that I am extremely glad that Dvori will support this law, given that one of the basic reasons for the adoption of this law is to comply with EU rules, so I think that this is a big and significant step for them too. By adopting this law, our legislation will comply with the regulations and any changes made in the adoption of many agreements that have been confirmed, as regards the areas of transport of goods in road, rail, water and air traffic. Some of the newspapers adopted by this law are that a solution is provided for a number of road carriers using vehicles that received ADR certificates under the Freight Transport Safety Act but do not meet all requirements prescribed by the ADR agreement. The proposal also states that a number of sublaws can be adopted on the basis of it. Also, one of the very important items adopted by this bill is that the mandatory insurance prescribed by the Law on the transport of dangerous cargo is abolished so far. In fact, mandatory insurance was one imposition that no one in the environment, or anyone in the EU, had. Our drivers had to pay the insurance policy, and often they had to do harm themselves, or at risk of participating even up to 80%, which is really very much, so our drivers with very great approval accepted something like this, because finally, by introducing such newspapers, or by adopting this law, they would be more competitive on the international market. Also one of the newspapers is that this law abolishs the Department of Transport of Dangerous Loads and that jurisdiction will be transferred to the sector that will be located in the Ministry of Transport, Construction and Construction. As far as the Airport Management Act is concerned, I would really like to highlight the great results this government has achieved in the area of air traffic. As you well know, Er Serbia has become a leader in the region in the area of air traffic in just a few years. What I would like to point out and what is one of the great successes is the direct flight of Belgrade-New York which started this year in June. After 24 years, we have an opportunity to fly out of Serbia, that Serbia is open to all directions in the world. As far as "Nikola Tesla" airport itself is concerned, by the end of the year more than five million passengers will cross this airport, and based on the regularity itself of almost 90%, it is among the best airports in the region. In November of this year, 331,224 passengers were recorded, 11% more than the number of passengers who crossed this airport in the same month last year, which only suggests that air traffic from year to year is getting better and better results. If we could just remember, say, up to four years back what it looked like, what it looked like when, say, you came from abroad to Serbia and landed at the airport "Nikola Tesla". I personally felt like I was coming to some ghost town. It was absolutely empty, there were no passengers, there were no workers. Indeed, one is a sad painting above all. And today? Today, work on another terminal is planned to be completed by the summer season, where as many as 33 new checkers will be available to passengers. Also planned is a new hall for passenger registration, as well as a new luggage reception system. What I think is a very important newspaper and I am very happy about it, it is also planned to set up five independent flight registration devices. In addition, a 21,000 square metre platform is envisaged to defrost and prevent the freezing of aircraft, and the solution is foreseen so that at the same time it can receive two small-scale aircraft, and the biggest Airbus A 360 aircraft can be accepted on that platform. From what I have stated, it can be concluded that even more intensive development of the airport structure is planned in the future, so that is why this airport needs to be commercialized. This law does something just like that. This law declares airport management to be of general interest, creating a legal possibility to apply the Law on Public-private Partnership and concessions at airports in the Republic of Serbia. In this way, Serbian citizens will have even better airports in the Republic of Serbia, in line with the world's highest standards, and this will certainly be a very good and great success both for the economy itself and for the citizens of all Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10311	The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10312	Thank you for your comments and for watching how I hope these laws are implemented and implemented in practice. Thank you for also mentioning everything the Competition Protection Commission has said, as well as all the institutions that have received these laws in their opinion. Both the House and the Community Act for over a year have passed all public debates and there have been many opportunities to hear many comments, that everything that is possible is really inserted into this law, with a basic goal of introducing order and that citizens of Serbia have one better, higher quality of living standards. That's what we're all trying to do. It is particularly important to the Airports Act, and thank you for mentioning above all the results of the Government of the Republic of Serbia regarding air traffic, especially for the airport "Nikola Tesla" and for the existence of Er Serbia. A few data that are very important, which is in support of our continuing to deal with how the "Nikola Tesla" airport will continue to grow, are data that say that, among other things, only in 2014 compared to 2013, the growth of Nikola Tesla airport revenue was 47% and that of some thirty or slightly less than 30 destinations that existed before 2013, we are talking about 57 destinations today. You mentioned a direct flight to the United States, which is very important from several points of view. Not only from the point of view of the development of air traffic, and not only from the point of view of income and everything we need to achieve, but above all it is very important in relation to the political stability and political relations Serbia has with the United States. What awaits us very quickly in the next period is a direct flight to the People's Republic of China and that is what is also very important to us. A very significant part of which makes us so focused on air traffic in general is the revenues of full air activity. So this is not only about Nikola Tesla Airport, Er Serbia, etc., but also about the SMATS Directorate and all other airlines. The revenue increased by 51% between 2014 and 2013, and by over 10% between 2015 and 2014. So there is simply a trend in income growth that clearly tells every serious government, and we are a serious government, that in the next period we have to devote ourselves to further investment in airport development. Thank you again for all the comments you've made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10313	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (No) We are moving to work in order of the MPs according to the application for the word. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10314	Ladies and gentlemen, honored by the set of laws offered, given the limited time, I will draw attention to the Airport Management Act and the Housing Act. On this occasion, I would like to point out the importance that this country has as many airports as possible. First of all, I believe that the construction and opening of the Sandzak airport, more specifically in Sjenica or Novi Pazar, would be of strategic importance to the region, but also to the whole country. More than half a million people are gravitating in that region, but what is particularly important is the fact that we have over a million and a half members of the diaspora, mostly in Turkey and a very significant number in Western Europe. For now, we have not had the opportunity to take advantage of this potential, either in communication or in a developmental sense. I am convinced that the airport would be an incentive for development, especially attracting investment, would benefit all citizens, both Serbs and Bosniaks, of this area. I've had opportunities to talk to a number of potential investors, especially in the east. After the first steps and their will to come and invest, the question was, which airport could I land on a private plane? That's when I'd get my shoulders down and it'd mostly end up. There is a possibility of a conversion of a military airport in Sjenica to a civilian. It is not a new idea, at the time of the government of Zoran Djindjic, the first steps were taken. We even had the opportunity to bring the former Transport Minister of the Hesen province to Germany, otherwise an expert in converting military airports to civilians, and already start with certain arrangements. But by killing Zoran Djindjic, all that matters. If that were not appropriate, the construction of a new airport in Novi Pazar would certainly be of great benefit. It's not just the part of Sandzak that's in Serbia, we have the southern Sandzak, or northern Montenegro, cities and municipalities that are gravitating this space, and I think it would be very important for the Ministry to include this project in its strategic projects, and we would all be involved in taking off together and looking for potential investors. When it comes to housing law, I think it would be important to offer the protection of the human aspect of building residential buildings. So far, we have this pretty pale and unconvincing, but I'm a witness in the middle where I live to build multi-story buildings in the streets that have no capacity to be either one-way, which have no sidewalks, a multi-story building is built without a parking lot. Investors pay taxes to municipal or city administrations to provide them with parking. Of course, they just charge those taxes, and there's no parking lot. We've got cars on the sidewalk, pedestrians at risk. It's mostly families with three or four or more children. So we have a kind of chaos in terms of the unprotection of both the tenants and the passersby themselves, especially the children. Also, we have construction of multi-story areas near cultural historical monuments. These days, there are no buildings right next to the Lakek Mosque, one of the oldest in Novi Pazar, just ten meters from the fence of that mosque, which has completely compromised the facility. We have, of course, other phenomena of a similar kind. Near Gaza Husrev, the oldest in Novi Pazar, is also announced to build such a building. So here I think it would be important to offer solutions that would protect what is most important, and that is the human environment for the housing and life of these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10315	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10316	As for the airport in Sjenica, it has a fantastic position and I guess that's one of the reasons why you mentioned it now, since it is 60 kilometers away from Novi Pazar both from Tutin and Raska. This law that needs to be passed, and I hope that we will adopt, the Airport Act, gives us the opportunity to develop all airports, not only big ones, but small airports. What the Senate must do first is that they must remove all the consequences of the bombing that existed, but what is also my message, we can do anything, but everything must be in accordance with the law. It refers, therefore, to this subject, and also to the other subject that you mentioned in your presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10317	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10318	Eight laws in a joint discussion, very difficult for colleagues who had 20 minutes, but I'll try to say something crucial about it in those five minutes. Five laws have my support and support for the New Party. So, the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Goods, the Law on Community Works, on Public-private Partnership, on the Proposal for an Agreement on Trans-European Railways, the Agreement on Live Jet Flights, or on Extraordinary Air Transport, along with some of the interventions that we have given above all in improving the text, you have the support for these five laws. As for the last one, it's a decision to lift visas with China, I hope the government's competent services have examined in detail and all the potential benefits of that and all the potential problems that such a thing can bring us. It's no coincidence that no one in this part of the world has such an agreement with China and I don't have time to explain why I think it's one thing that's controversial. The two laws that have raised public attention are one on concessions at airports, i.e. on airport management, but as a preparation, it also says in the explanation that this is a preparation for giving concessions to “Nikola Tesla” Airport and other airports. Realistically, in Serbia, we have two airports that work more or less commercially. It's true that we have one big development in air traffic, the number of passengers, but let's be realistic, that's a good part of it being contributed to and competitive conditions throughout the world. There's an increase in the number of flights everywhere, the number of people flying, and that's totally fine, and I'd like it to be absolutely like you said. I just have a few questions. First, for the concession – do you know who gets the concession? Did they tell you, do you know or haven't they told you yet? Since this haste, an emergency procedure, obviously resembles something that reminds me of NIS, when NIS is sold, so we can remain in Kosovo and get the "South Stream", so we got the southern Kosovo and the flow that I'm not talking about. That's what it looks like to me. Do we have any unusual friendships with some of us far away, but friendly countries, so there are some strange players who might come to these concessions. I'm talking about the "Berograda on Water" case, but I'm talking and I'm going to repeat another case of one Bulgarian businessman and banker, whom the domestic authorities of both the state and the Prime Minister, and these are all my findings from Serbia's MUP, have been guarding here somewhere in Vrakar, although there are already two years of the red Interpol APB. Everyone knows he's here and he owns the Paracian glass shop and everybody knows, or he sold something to someone from the ruling coalition, but I'm afraid we're not making that quick concession just to get to some controversial people who'll be following someone's money. I hope that's not true, but I'm afraid there's that danger. You said the airport was renovated. The planes have been landing there since 2003, when it was renovated by the Norwegian state's resources and it is true that there are now more traffic, but since 2003 it has been in the state of transport, as it would say. You said you were moving the railroad from the center of Nis. That's not true. It's a story that exists for 20 and a few years, and I told it as mayor, but there hasn't been a single threshold moved so far, and there's no more serious plan than it was 20 years ago. Household and building maintenance laws. My DS colleagues took my prescription "get deleted" and I allowed it without compensation for the author's work, but I have another idea now with that law. They say some evil languages, and maybe they're informed, that it's actually being prepared when you lose the next election, that MPs, councilmen, people who are in power get their new job, which is these forced building managers, that they have licenses for it, and what else could they do, because they haven't done anything in their lives, start with the Prime Minister, so we say, and that it's actually being prepared. I think the law should be passed, but as a stimulant to the citizens to organise and resist the nest and to all form their congregations, as it is already called, and choose their managers and this is the right way to start elections in April next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10319	The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10320	I have to admit, somewhere I'm worried about you supporting the law, but it's positive and thank you for that, somewhere I didn't understand you very well, and somewhere you made me laugh. I'm going to try to get through all of this, and I'm going to give an answer, first of all, for the sake of the citizens of Serbia. Let's start with this last one - the apartment and how we're going to lose the election. Whether we lose or not, Serbian citizens will vote on it. I sincerely hope that, as they have seen so far, how much effort, effort and energy we are making in order for Serbia and that we have growth, that we are developing, and it can be seen and it is not fairy tales and not stories, I believe that the situation will be favourable. But let's leave some new choices to answer that. A question about concessions and the Airport Act. I think the public knows that, I will repeat now, we still, as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, haven't defined ourselves first in what direction we're going to go, when we're talking about further airport development, because in the meantime we've called and got our own advisor to work with, based on all the detailed analyses that exist at the airport, then all the airports in our environment, what we want to achieve as a state, when we talk about the development of the "Nikola Tesla" airport, and only after that, if we define whether it's in concession or in any other form, then, publicly, it's all public and transparent, so, by the government's decision, the public, then, will prepare the tender documentation for any kind of concession or whatever it is. So, we are currently talking through a commission formed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, with all ministers, with an adviser, with all other institutions, about what is the best way for "Nikola Tesla" Airport, and we definitely need to make some decisions when it comes to future development of "Nikole Tesla", investment in "Nikola Tesla", increasing its capacities. It's just a little remark about Nis. It's all good that the planes landed, it's great, just to tell you that only in one year in Nis has landed five times more planes than since the time when the Norwegian airport was even built, or renovated by the Norwegian government. Next, you also mentioned this one, someone calls them the bypasses, I call it the removal of the railroad from the centre of Nis, primarily for freight traffic. The expropriation started, so they were arranged and the 2017 budget allocated money for the expropriation. We have a group together with the town of Nis, we leave in 2017 with expropriation. In the meantime, we talked to both the European Investment Bank and the World Bank and made a deal, so there are documents that can be seen, on the financing of the shift of the freight line from the centre of Nis. Finally, here, no matter what you've talked about, what many have talked about, I'm talking about it, but I'm trying to make it happen. As for once again, housing, managers are here to help us and cannot possibly be appointed by any political game, since it is indeed a contractual relationship between the manager and the residential community, or a residential facility. Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10321	You have no right to a colleague of Zivkovic's. You asked a question, you got answers. The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10322	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, citizens of Serbia, today we have several laws on the agenda, and I will focus on the Law on housing and maintenance of residential buildings. It's a good thing we had a chance to see that some people don't think they're doing politics for life. Elections will come in a few months or three years from now, a regular parliamentary, will be able to get a license, to try, to work as a manager in one of the residential buildings. Unfortunately, these great experts have failed to manage the vineyard either, so I doubt they'll be able to manage the buildings here too. But it's worth a try, maybe in the meantime they learned something to do. The housing law, maintenance of residential buildings and housing is a good law. He's good because after decades, he solves big problems. What I want to point out in particular is the problem of those people who are the owners of their private properties, whose apartments were taken away 60 or 70 years ago and who did not have the opportunity to manage their property in the way they wanted them to. This law allows us, within ten years, to say that the owners of the apartments return to their private property, while in the meantime managing it in the way they consider it necessary. It is good to introduce order and this is a government that introduces order into Serbia. It is a government that introduces laws. A government that is not led by decision-making on vineyards, decision-making by trespassing in private property, by looting and kidnapping. This is a government that advocates compliance with the law, and I'm sure that's how we'll keep doing our job. I had a chance to speak to the representatives of the Association of Protected Residents. They are also very pleased with the solutions offered in the law, especially that they pointed out, which they are satisfied with, and I want to give you their satisfaction, which is that they will have the opportunity to buy out apartments that are publicly owned and thus, to say, there will be justice on both sides. They weren't guilty at the time when some were entering those apartments, getting them from the state, kidnapping, unfortunately, at that time lived. They'll get a chance to buy a place in public property. Also, I think that fair solutions are both for one and the other, the square that is foreseen for one person. This law is good and deserves support and I see and thank God that it is so that it will get great support in the Serbian Parliament and I want you to continue to work for the benefit of citizens, the well-being of society and I am convinced that those who have left this hall before, by supporting this law, will find a new job, and it will likely be the place of manager of some minor courtyard after the next elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10323	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10324	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Minister with his associates, of course, in the time I have, it is difficult to systematically talk about all the draft laws that are on the agenda today, where, without a really clear reason, I have been joined by a debate on laws that have nothing to do with each other and whose solutions are not connected. This continues with one bad practice in parliament. And these very facts fall into the water and your arguments that these laws were in public debate. There was plenty of time to tell them everything, and apparently there wasn't enough time if we had to adopt them in this procedure. Obviously, there was not enough time when the bill, in particular now I am talking about the House and Building Maintenance Act, came to parliament with one solution and with several members who define the purchase of dwellings in which officials reside or who are otherwise assigned for use. Then under public pressure, you wiped out those members yourself. Then today in the discussion, you are criticising MPs who propose amendments to which individual members are deleted. I think it is at least incorrect, that the first amendments to this law were amendments – deleted, certain members. I ask you if all this is so well discussed why it came to this, why did these solutions come to which the government had no other answer but to wipe them out of the law. And then why and the emergency procedure and everything. The same applies to these laws, which prepare for a practical concession at Serbia's airports. You have repeated several times today, but you have not convinced me that the government has not yet made a decision on how airports in Serbia will develop. As I read these bill proposals, amendments and additions to the law, it tells me that the government knows very clearly who will be the buyer, or concessionaire, for Serbia's airports, and that it prepares the laws, i.e. the concessionaire's demands. It's basically bad that this government has been working backwards for years. So, you're not looking for and you're not making an investment environment where someone comes in, you're looking at the legal framework, what kind of policy is, what are the plans, and then you make a decision based on whether to invest in Serbia or not. You're looking for investors, which doesn't have to be so bad, but then you're making a bad move, which is that you imitate Serbia's laws. This sends a bad message to others who watch and wonder whether they should come to invest in Serbia. You send a message that there are similar investors and others. If someone's good with the government, then we'll change the law for him, change the regulation, change everything we need, but if he's not good with the government, he won't be able to make that investment. That's why Serbia helmets no matter what you say, statistics make it clear that Serbia is a helmet for countries in an environment in foreign investment. Yes, the aviation industry is growing, growing everywhere in the world, it's one of the branches of the economy with the highest growth of 4% to 7%. In Europe, this percentage is much higher in the world because airlines are getting cheaper. Because small airports are developing, and that's why the situation and the number of flights from Nis is so high, because with the development of Lou bone companies today, these small airports are, I say, wanted on the market. If they were to make a comparison of how some other countries used it, they'd see us coughing there too. You didn't come here after two months of office and now you're telling us about your plans and how something hasn't been done in the past. You've been coming here as a member of the government for five years. You've been in one other ministry for the first two years, and now for the third year you've run this resort. At the very least, it's incorrect that you are now saying how it went, that nothing has been done in the past tense and that you are responsible for a great deal of that time that has passed. I don't think you can expect support in such a way in the Parliament outside this round of parliamentary groups that support the government. We've given a significant number of amendments. I see, unfortunately, this whole package of amendments for these eight points of the agenda, that number is just over 800, so we certainly won't be able to discuss all the amendments because of the parliamentary restrictions. So we may be able to discuss the first two laws, all other amendments to those laws will not arrive on the agenda for the debate in the Assembly. The assembly will only ultimately define them as another indicator of why it is bad enough to combine this number of important laws that need to open new development prospects for Serbia's economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10325	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10326	A few comments. Let me start with the law first, which we have accepted the amendment of the SNS parliamentary group, which is that members 152, 153 and 154 are removed from this bill. This was not a public pressure, because believe me, we could all as a government leave such members, but our opinion in relation to everything that we have prepared before and before this law to make everything clear in the review and to make it clear to everyone what we are doing through a certain law or a member of the law. This wasn't clear, and it wasn't well defined, and I said it a few times, and I don't have a problem saying it when I just think we didn't do it the right way. Our idea was completely different and was related to the families of the injured police officers or wounded officers. Furthermore, otherwise to inform you, of your 56 amendments submitted, the 16 amendments were accepted, especially those amendments that were related to the Housing Act. That's why it's not clear to me in that sense, when you're commenting now whether we've convinced you or not, whether it's going to privatise the airport or not, the Airport Act that's in front of you today is very clear. He's inside himself, Art. 16th and 17th, it first defines that a national programme of airport development must be clearly adopted. So this law doesn't talk about the privatisation of the airport now. What I've said before, if we decide, this government does it clearly, transparently and transparently. All government decisions, except those that are classified, can be seen and known. When we decide and come into a situation in general that based on several variants we decide how to move forward strategically with "Nikola Tesla" airport, the public will know about it. All that is done is that the strategic partnership or concession will be presented in a transparent, clear way and will be arranged and determined, therefore, by competition, documentation and public invitation to such a process. So nothing will be done any other way. Sometimes a lot of things have been done like that before, but now we're not going back to that ancient past. When you talk about how this is set up, that there are some similar investors and less similar investors, you know what, the status of our two years on the Duing Business List, that we're in the top ten reformers exactly on business terms, the estimates give us investors, and they don't give us institutions some, says that you're wrong, but that we make the most of it, that we're just setting up an environment for investors and that there's no such thing as a similar investor, but above all there are our country's interests, our plans, our strategies that we're trying to implement by coming investors and investing in us. You're wrong that everyone else, I don't know, is going faster and we're going slower. On the contrary, even when it comes to foreign direct investment, and even when it comes to airport growth and the number of passengers at airports, and 10 years ago, the number of passengers at all airports grew, only not on our airports, and 10 years ago, airports grew much faster and more developed only not ours, nor "Nikola Tesla" nor Nis. I won't even talk about Nis. So in 2014, the airport had under 1,000 or 1,500 passengers. Today we're talking about 100,000 passengers. Today we're talking about 2017 as 200,000 passengers. So something did happen after all. Of course, from your position as the opposition, you have your comment, but it is my duty to say that you are wrong when you talk about us coughing right now. On the contrary, I think we've tried at least in certain traffic corridors to catch that step and that we're much better than the whole region now, and I said our status on the Duing Business List, and where we are right now, shows that I'm right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10327	You have no right to a replica. (Marco Djurisic: Replica. She was talking about the parliamentary group and the amendments. She just answered the question you asked, nothing more. The People's Messenger Marko Blagojevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10328	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, a respected minister, respected guests, the fact that Serbia alone in Europe will have visa-free regimes with China, says that relations between the two countries are constantly progressing, and that they are planned in the long term. Serbia, as a country that justifies its place in the modern world, obviously has a great friend in China, and China in Serbia has a reliable and honest friend in this part of the world, thanks to close relations of great importance, the activation of co-operation with the People's Republic of China. As the potentially largest tourism market in the world, China is the world's leading show of tourism. According to data, China's national tourism administrations, 120 million Chinese citizens traveled abroad in 2015. They spent about $15 billion, and that's about 15% more compared to 2014. The fact that the number of tourists travelling abroad from China has increased 13 times since 1998 speaks in itself about the development of the world's most dynamic tourist market. Eight million tourists visit New Zealand over the course of one year. The forecasting of the Chinese national tourist administration is that in the next five years about six hundred million Chinese tourists will visit foreign destinations. The main driving factors of this great growth in travel were visa liberalisation and increasing the purchasing power of Chinese citizens. Where their tourists go, the Chinese invest in infrastructure, hotels and economics. The abolition of visas for the citizens of China is in itself a historic opportunity, as well as a huge potential for Serbia's tourist offer and the rebirth of the tourism economy. If we add to this forecast that the region of 16 Central European countries will record the growth of Chinese tourists by 46% by 2018, we can say that this law makes Serbia meet. Today we were able to hear that we remembered well to make an agreement on visa waiver for the holders of ordinary passports of the Republic of Serbia and the People's Republic of China. You're wrong, we didn't think of it. This is the result of a multi-year process that tells us that our government is planning and considering, taking care of the citizens. I can remind you that in 2014, we made a decision to enter without visas from foreign travel documents holding a valid Schengen visa, a visa from the United Kingdom, other EU Member States or a visa from the United States. Also, yesterday on the Foreign Affairs Committee, we could hear concerns about the opposition's work in terms of security and economic migrants. We could hear it today from a colleague of Zivkovic's. Yesterday, Ambassador Djurisic, a pardon that is here today, took note of the fact that all standards and security procedures have been respected and that the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Serbia, together with the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of China, will strictly monitor and respond to any challenges and be in constant contact. In this sense, this practice is no new, I will remind you of the agreement on the mutual journeys of the citizens of the two countries. It's from 1979, a contract signed by the SFRY with the People's Republic of China. Greater flow of Chinese citizens will strengthen co-operation in fields of culture, economy, trade, sports, science, education and so on. In this sense, Serbia's tourism economy must take urgent steps in order to adequately prepare itself not to miss such a unique opportunity for its development. Currently, Serbia has a lower percentage of tourism visits compared to Central and Eastern European countries and tourism revenues are well below 3% of GDP, which is about three times lower than Europe's countries. According to the World Tourism Organisation, Serbia compared to countries of similar capacities, Hungary and Slovakia, has a significantly smaller number of overnight stays. We're hoping to make more visits. In connection with this introduction of a direct flight between Belgrade and Beijing will be a major and significant step to further strengthen Belgrade's position as a regional centre and a regional hub in aviation, where it grows to an airport that would meet developed airports in Europe. Here we can add free rails whose construction is planned, also to Luke Piraeus, and negotiations about Luke Bar, and what we heard yesterday from colleagues from the Foreign Ministry. China as the world's most human country in recent years, not only has it recorded the dizzy growth of tourists who go abroad, but also tourists who spend a lot of money. Research shows that Chinese tourists spend around 1500 euros per person on a trip. It is an answer to the concern of economic migrants, which some colleagues here have expressed, and should also note that China, sometimes available to old information, as a country that was a source of migrants, has become today a destination desirable for economic migrants, especially from South and South East Asia and Africa. Also, some of us today could hear that they support this agreement, although China is not particularly important to them, because of the opportunity they say, to take some money. I don't want to comment on these habits, but in addition to material benefits, it's important to point out that we are essentially intrinsically intrinsically good, as a society, our two peoples. The peoples of Serbia and China have mutual respect, respect, support, common memories, and I will remind you ladies and gentlemen of the common sacrifices we had during the criminal NATO aggression. The result of this agreement will be better knowledge of the two peoples and stronger interstate relations, cultural, scientific and co-operation in education are for me personally, the most important values for which countries can work bilaterally and which they can develop. Finally, we can quote the philosopher Mao Ce, who said, "One time from a thousand miles begins with the first step," and I hope that this joint step by Serbia and China can lead us to start walking together with our partners, including at least two countries that are among the strongest and most developed in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10329	Right on line, MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10330	I don't think my colleague really understood what I was about to say. Of course it is important for every country to have good relations with the US, China, the Russian Federation, the EU. It is a question that simply, always has the same answer – yes. And, North Korea and Liechtenstein and everyone in between, they want to have good relations with those three countries and European integration. The question just -- is it well thought out, that we are the only country in Europe that doesn't have a visa regime with China? Is this in line with the current government's policy, at least in public, at least in words, which is that we are going towards the EU? Of course, neither for tourists from China nor for steel from China nor for anything from China, the market for tourism, the steel market, the food market, or the market I don't know what Serbia, or this railway alleged, from Belgrade to Budapest, is the goal of China to carry out economic penetration in Europe, in the EU, and this is clear as a day, and this is a legitimate goal. It is a legitimate goal, only the question, if the EU does not see it as something good, but thinks it needs to be extended, and customs protection and visa protection, to prevent this activity of China, is it good that we are on our way to the EU, an accomplice, I repeat, on their part the legitimate objectives of the People's Republic of China. The question is only there – what is our place in this process? That's why I've expressed my suspicions as to whether this visa waiver has been thought enough for the wearers of ordinary passports, as you can say.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10331	Right on the replica Marko Blagojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10332	For my colleague, the previous one, I was only responsible for the part where he expressed concern for security aspects, some complications that could arise by introducing a visa-free regime, and I did not answer it in other parts, as well as the questions the opposition was asking. In this second part, I can only express my opinion and what I understand. We are often in monitoring and meeting various standards that are best known for European integration and it is good to accept, decide and see if we can apply something that is better and more useful than what we are currently doing, or necessary, because of the market we are working with, etc. So, I welcome this promotion, but it's also something Serbia had, and I have to say until the change of government, until the arrival of SNS and Alexander Vukic at the head of the Serbian government, which is that by following and chasing, most often after Western standards, we often forget who we are and what we are. So, in some things, we were often the first in the world, the most respected. Now we mention Michael Pupina, Nikola Tesla, etc. In sports, we can explain to someone who doesn't understand me, like Novak Djokovic, our water politicians, who are the world's champions and they are from our people, from our country. In their decision, they became the first to do so, and that is why they became the first in the world. They recognized something before the others, kept working, trained, and imposed standards on others. So the others who want to be champions in these actions, they have to follow them as a role model and deal with them. I also believe that we recognize the first visa liberalisation in Europe, and the opening of that with China, and that is the standard that we are introducing Europe. That's my opinion and my attitude.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10333	The People's Messenger, Nada Lazic, has the word. He's not here. The word has a folk MP, Vera Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10334	Dear Vice President, honourable fellow Members of the People, a respected minister with members of the government. The issue of housing and housing should be presented by one of the most important segments of social policy, since the right to housing means meeting the basic human need, and it is recognised as an inalienable human right. These issues, unfortunately, have not been given proper attention for a long time, so it is no wonder that many problems, unresolved issues and legal gaps have accumulated here, since the existing legislation is over 20 years old and over. A new bill on housing and housing will try to solve these problems. First of all, I must point out that I believe that a positive solution is that the new law will unite the matter currently in three separate laws, on housing, building maintenance and social housing, and will now make it much easier for citizens to get acquainted directly with the regulations in this area, which is very important if we want this law to live in practice. The biggest newspaper in the new law is giving legal subjectivity to collective housing buildings. This will mean, in practice, that each housing community, as the resident assembly will be called in the future, in one building or common entrance of a part of the building, will have to have its own home number and account in the bank, that it will be able to conclude various contracts that are related to the maintenance and service of the building. It is known that the maintenance of buildings and joint rooms in our country, at a very low level. There are rare exceptions that the existing House Councils and Household Assemblys work well and maintain in the proper state of installation, facades, roofs and surrounding buildings. Unfortunately, we are dominated by examples that there is no agreement between neighbors because of disagreement and personal problems, so individual buildings are literally falling apart, and no one is responsible for it, or is showing concern about it. The proposal for a new legal solution will seek to drastically change such a situation. Our citizens living in residential buildings must understand that the apartment in the building under the same roof, pulls behind it, and joint responsibility for maintaining common rooms, outdoor facades, roofs, installation and surrounding buildings. In order to raise the importance of this responsibility, it is predicted that each building will necessarily have to form a Assembly of the Housing Community and choose a manager, as a person empowered to represent the building and organise joint maintenance jobs. This law wanted to highlight the managerial role of the manager who is actually one of our neighbours, but if none of the tenants want to do the management work, there is a possibility of hiring a professional manager who will be paid for the job. Professional managers will have to have special licenses to perform this job and be registered in publicly available registers. The introduction of such a system, of course, assumes the continued monthly obligation of participation in the financing of the maintenance costs of joint parts, which the owners of apartments or other parts of the building will be obliged to pay at the expense of the residential community, which I also think is a good solution, because so far, the practice is such that, for a large part of the repairs and maintenance, funds from the budget of the unit of local self-government, i.e. those funds that all citizens, including those who do not live in residential buildings, are required. It is predicted that if a residential building does not form its organs for them, it will do so to the municipality, to set up an emergency manager, and to prescribe the amount of funds, which will be paid on behalf of the building maintenance fee. On the other hand, it is predicted that such pooled funds are strictly spent on purpose, as well as that each of the tenants can at any moment have insight into the invoices and the state of the housing account. In order to implement these provisions, the bill also provides for the obligation of the local self-government authority in the way of registering residential communities in its territory. A significant part of the law is also dedicated to social housing and is discussed in which persons have the right to housing support, under what conditions they can get and ways they can obtain by renting or improving housing conditions, or by housing in specially designed buildings. At the end of the transitional and final provisions of this law are of no less importance, as they foresee resolving the housing issue, homeowners of dwellings owned by private persons are in charge and the foundation. There is no need to stress how difficult this conflict is for society, the two fundamental human rights, the rights to apartment and the right to peaceful, and the uninterrupted enjoyment of its assets. This law recognises that this problem exists and provides frameworks for solving it. It is predicted that first of all, in administrative procedures, all holders of housing rights are to register the need for resettlement, so that the municipalities can be able to move to public property dwellings for ten years from now, and the plan is that all the ten-year leasers will be displaced within 10 years, i.e. by the end of 2026 and finally resolve this problem and liquidate household law, as a time of past difficult historical circumstances. In order to address this problem faster, local self-government units will already be obliged to allocate their budgets on an annual basis funds for the construction of moving apartments, and in the cost of building these apartments, the Republic will co-finance 50% of the costs. Dear People's MPs, the PUPS parliamentary group, believes that the adoption of this law is of great importance for the settlement of human relations in our buildings, for the start of the process of getting them sorted out, for our streets and cities to look better, for opening up the possibility of a number of people getting jobs in building maintenance jobs, for solving the problem of people with tenants' rights, and in the day of voting, they will give their support to this legislative proposal, as well as the other set of laws that are on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10335	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10336	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We heard a lot of things in the debates and debates in today's day, and even if Mr. Zukorlic makes a complaint and complains about wild construction in Novi Pazar, but good. As for airport concessions and airport laws, it is a clear view that you are preparing for an occlusive shop and that you are preparing to sell the airport to one of your tycoon or SNS financing companies, such as Zvonko Veseninović. As for the housing law, the SNS also prepares to damage Serbian citizens' budgets by 200, 300 or 500 dinars to hire its party listeners, those who make them cry or are in the service of the SNS. Well, as you do, it'll come back to you. As for the law on the transport of dangerous goods, you say in an explanation, and I agree that it is a serious law and that it is necessary, that you want this law to be compatible with European laws. We of course support it. I want the minister who has been here for five years in the government of the Republic of Serbia to answer me, which is also linked to the goods transport law, which is only 70km from Smederev. I hope you're aware of that, and it concerns this very law. This has been happening since 2013, where illegal, without any paper, without any permission in Smederev, a TNG warehouse of 3,000 metres cubic is built. It was built by the park, by the promenade, where children walk every day or every night. This TNG is transported alongside the most important institutions of the city of Smederev and through the very center of the city. The temporary permit has been issued by the city of Smederev and I am sure that you are familiar with it, although the Law on Planning and Construction says it is not in accordance with the said law. No conditions for issuing or localising or building permits have been met. The treatment of the city is contrary to Article 57. The law on planning and construction, and I'm sure you as a man of the profession will confirm it. Then begins the illegal construction of a dock on the banks of the Danube River. The law stipulates that the permit is issued by the Ministry of Construction, with the prior consent of the Port Management Agency. That permit has not been issued as far as I am aware and the pre-project conditions of the Waterway Directorate, which the investor did not get. Urbanist water traffic development plans are not designed to build a port. Our question is – are you familiar with events like this only 70km from downtown Belgrade? Will this law on the transport of dangerous goods forbid these things to happen more? And, if you're familiar with events like this, are you hiding and if you're hiding, who's the state protecting? Over hundreds of reports, over 30 inscriptions in the daily papers, we have around this case and no one has responded. None of the city's administration, none of the police, none of the departments in charge reacted while this project was being implemented, and it took three months. It couldn't have ended overnight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10337	The word has a People's Messenger, Muamer Zukorlic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10338	I understand Mr. Milojicic, who probably feels the problem that he can't be politically recognizable and then came up with to mention me. Now everyone in the National Assembly, and perhaps one of the citizens we've exhausted from these marathon debates, is going to make a political observation. In that sense, I understand him. I don't want to fight, I can even tell him to ask me, whenever he needs a little popularity he has permission to mention me. What I don't understand is why these grandchildren, Zoran Djindjic, and after he died, continue to bury him like this? So, the institutions I've been raising for the last 20 years, especially these educational ones that are still being built, were actually with the great, great support of their leader, and my then great friend Zoran Djindjic. While the Democrats were with me, the birds sang to them. The moment they went the other way and tried to give up what Zoran Djindjic had set up, built and founded, we see how they were doing – very bad. I'm sorry, because there are ex-friends of mine, but what can I do? I can't help them any other way than to let them use my name and name to raise or try to restore their popularity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10339	Right on line, MP Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10340	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, this is not about the best prime minister Serbia has ever had, Dr. Zoran Djindjic, this is not about any recognition or any personal animosities, this is all about respect for the law. For 27 years, the Democratic Party has been a state-run party that advocates freedom of the media, the rule of law and institutions. Ms. Mihajlovic humiliated the rule of law by failing to bring down an illegal facility, and the prime minister said that the facility cannot be torn down for political reasons, so I ask if we respect the rule of law, are there people in Serbia who are above the law or are here, as in all European countries, the law is equal for all? The Democratic Party hopes because of the future of Serbian citizens that the law here is the same for all, although SNS and its satellites every day show that this is not so, unfortunately, in 2016.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10341	The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10342	What does the MP say in such a short time? All of what you've told me so far, all of it has been done by the Democratic Party for 12 years, all of it. So, you've been making tenders for well-known buyers and what we call the largest number of privatisations today, unfortunately, we call them because you've conducted them, they're not being conducted by the SNS, they're not being conducted by Alexander Vukic. So, you've made first tenders for previously known buyers. That's what the Democratic Party did. And then, what I've already said once, and I'm going to say it again, so now people have fear when we want to put in really one order reviewed, you've hired members of the DS and your satellites in the municipal police, whatever they are. That's why you're on the verge of censorship, and that's why you as a political party have a problem. So when you talk about concessions, hiring SNS, we don't do it. One more thing to tell you, you've been punished by the citizens. Serbian citizens showed in the last elections that after the first government in which the SNS was, we had parliamentary elections and, as far as I know, we won more than 50%. It was the opinion of Serbian citizens on the politics of Alexander Vukic and the SNS, and the opinion of Serbian citizens on your policy is that you are still on the verge of censorship today. That's true. The particular problem you've brought forward twice has been the inspection's written misdemeanor reports. There's been this case in court for a year and a half. So what's now, it's in the domain of justice. Construction inspectors, a general inspection of the ministry and water traffic, have come out and issued the closing twice of the construction site and has twice filed a misapplication, in accordance with all applicable regulations and laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10343	Right on line, MP Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10344	The Honorable Madam Minister mentioned the DS again. I think only the answer to the question asked by fellow MP Milojic here was expected. I think we need to answer here. You're accusing the DS of privatisation. We also know that these 24 privatisations were carried out from 2004 to 2007 in the DSS, Kostunica and Dinkic, G17, with minority support from the SAA. You yourself know that you were involved and that you were part of the G17 and you carry that responsibility with you by your engagement. There is no need to accuse the DS of everything that has happened in Serbia since 2000, as if everything has been a great state in the country, and you yourself have been part of the process since 2000. Here only an answer is expected to respect the law in case of illegal construction in Novi Pazar. That's the question we've all heard here. Perhaps all of us MPs are interested in this response as well as the public of Serbia, and we are interested in both the state and the transport and storage of dangerous substances, especially when they are transported through populated areas. You talked about it and it's commendable when you talk about the need to move and implement a project to move freight transport through the City of Nis. We know that an initiative has been launched and that many decisions have been made since 2011. Here, we've been waiting for a while. It's been waiting a long time, and it's not entirely your responsibility. It is good to realise and remove that transport, but unfortunately we are witnessing what happened in Bulgaria about a week ago and a major tragedy that threatens inhabited areas. The question was also clear with the best intention – how to protect the citizens of Smederev from what could happen?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10345	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10346	You're absolutely right. Here, now I'm going to answer the tax on all these points that the MP said. So, it says this - you are preparing a concession and this law on governance and concessions is being prepared to create some oculars and sell the airport to your tycoon, which funds you from the SNS. My answer is taxing: no, we don't, it used to be DS and it sold businesses in Serbia. The second item was the employment of SNS members as the manager of housing units. The answer is – no, we don't do it, it's done by DS, hiring its activists, primarily in the municipal police, and in all other places. The third question was the question of the dock and, in general, the Smederov, which was given a clear answer that this government is using all the instruments that can use to stop all the possible problems that are emerging, and they de facto appear when we speak in that part of the dock and in that part of Smederev at all. Furthermore, the question was about illegal construction. My answer is – the law will always be respected, every law, especially that law that we've passed to solve for ten years of illegal construction that was previously handled by DS. I totally understand that you couldn't pass better quality laws because you were just doing construction and construction and looking for the best locations all over Serbia to make money. It's okay and it's your right, but I'm telling you what the government is doing today and what the government is doing today. As for my membership in any political party, yes, I have 26 years of employment, that I was a member of G17 plus by 2005, after which I left the party and was not in any political party until 2010, when I came to work with Aleksandra Vukic and it is an honor to be in the government where he is Prime Minister, because the results of this government cannot be measured with any result of the DS government, let's say since 2004, when Boris Tadic was president of the state and performed apparently ten functions, all possible, from prime minister to all others. Thank you. (Radoslav Milojic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10347	We're moving on with our work. No one has the right to a replica. (Radoslav Milojic: Replica. You have no right to a replica. (Radoslav Milojic: How can I not? Because you've caused a replica. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10348	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I agree today's agenda is very large, several traffic-related laws, several agreements, but I have to admit that I haven't read anywhere in the draft agenda that we're discussing today the Law on Planning and Construction. Why am I saying that? Because the previous speaker, a previous speaker from the list of speakers, devoted two-thirds of his presentation to the Law on Planning and Construction. I think you should tell him. The second part of his exposure referred to what our people said about someone doing something and staying alive. [[Radoslav Milojic: Do I now have the right to reply?]] And yes, the previous speaker did something and stayed alive. So I want him to be alive and well for a long time, but I wouldn't be dealing with him and his business right now. His business is normally done by the competent state authorities. What's symptomatic is, everywhere the government did DS eventually, the state's authorities have their hands full. Anyway, let's get to the law. So, in my presentation, I would refer to several laws today, and above all, I am referring to the bill on housing and building maintenance. It is a very rare opportunity for one legal text to apply to every citizen of Serbia, such as this law, the law that deals with housing, because all of us, both MPs and all citizens, are all tenants and as tenants, we are all in a position to be touched by this law, to be treated by this law. It is also very rare to find so many mutual interests that need to be resolved, so many abandoned relationships and issues, so many destroyed funds, and that, when solving all these problems, it must take care of the economic and social opportunities of our country to bring all these interests together successfully. With this law, the government of the Republic of Serbia undoubtedly makes a significant step in ensuring human rights in the residential area. The House and Building Maintenance Act integrated all the elements of the housing rights set out in the relevant provisions of international conventions on the protection of human rights. With this legislation, the Republic of Serbia aims to achieve high standards of human rights protection established by international legal acts adopted by EU member states. What was my personal impression, my personal impression, is that it was as if there was an intention to wait so long for this law, as if, I mean the parties of the previous regime, as if they had waited years and years to solve such a significant segment, to solve such a significant issue, to introduce order into existing regulations, which, you will agree, were not arranged in the best way. The question is, why is that? They probably didn't want transparency or efficiency. This government, the government headed by Aleksandar Vukic, wants to deal with this issue transparently and effectively. That's why after 30 years we decided to take care of this area, because if we hadn't arranged it, I'm afraid we'd be in a situation where, say, Vračar municipality is currently missing hundreds of apartments from Vračar municipality. Therefore, the verification of the documents contained in the documents and the insight into the database of the Republic Geodesy Institute found that out of the total 421 apartments, Vračar City Municipality was unable to use as many as 160 apartments. Some, a small part, are bought out who knows how, who knows under what conditions, who knows under what circumstances, some are returned to the restitution process, that's one smaller number, some are in the Vračar Business Area Fund, but the non-existent apartments are 70. So 70 apartments for which we don't have the documentation of how they evaporated. They used to exist, and now they're gone. So, missing, 70 apartments. I therefore appeal and hope that this law, among other things, will introduce additional order in the functioning of housing policy and that we will not come into such a situation that the competent authorities, after the exercise of the authority of one party, investigate and come to the conclusion that 70 dwellings have disappeared. When it comes to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Community Action, I just want to highlight a few of the most significant objectives that are achieved by the adoption of this law, which is actually the creation of conditions for the management of municipal activities and the implementation of municipal activities. What I would particularly like to apostrophe is to strengthen the responsibility and efficiency of local self-government units and operators, as well as to increase investment in municipal infrastructure and to align the principles of carrying out municipal activities with best international practice. So why did I just point out as the most important part of these goals to strengthen the responsibility and efficiency of local self-government units when it comes to municipal activities? Because from the revision, from the case, of a local self-government, see the case, just the previous speaker who just spoke, and this is Smederjevska Palanka, we are coming up with incredible abuses. We've been listening here for days while we've adopted the budget and from ministers what the total debt is, what is the total damage in that municipality. It is, to repeat, three billion dinars. I have to ask a question, what does a man have to do to damage the budget by three billion? I repeat, in one sentence only when he touched the House Act, the speaker said the SNS wanted to damage the budget by 200, 300 or 500 dinars, which is, of course, absolute untrue, and it damaged the budget for three billion dinars. So, now, I wouldn't, because of the time left for the parliamentary group, read everything from the state's revision of Smederevska Palanka's business, but I have several examples to point out. Therefore, revenues from the collection of the municipal fee for the use of space on public areas amounting to a million and a half dinars, then the municipal fee for the use of parking space for road, motor and connected vehicles on arranged and marked places of seven, actually closer to eight million dinars, the fees for using construction land of seven million dinars, the revenues for renting public land for a specific time for temporary facilities of just over two million dinars. The income from the 209.000 dinar burial place, which was generated by the JKP "Palanka Service", was not paid at the expense of public revenues. It's just one of the irregularities. Obligations and paid services were taken over without the public procurement procedure, without any written contract. How did you make the deal? Usually, me to you, you to me? Did you melt on that? So, without a written contract, in the amount of 24 million dinars. This all falls down, Chairman, I see you're suggesting in some way that I might be coming out of the agenda domain, but this all falls under communal activity. So, without a public procurement procedure, without any written contract, more than 24 million dinars. And he honors us today that we are planning to damage the citizens' budget by 200, 300 or 500 dinars, as he said, quoting what he said. Please, for all these reasons that I have stated, I would like to invite you to support these proposed legislative solutions in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10349	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10350	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10351	You asked for the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10352	I was looking for a replica first.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10353	No, you asked for the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10354	Mr. Arsic, I'm advertising an article. 104, 107, 108, and to you as chairman, it is an honor, after all these lies, lies and insults to the account of both the DS and my own, not to give the People's Messenger a replica. It's an honor to you. I didn't expect anything smarter than the previous speaker when Aleksandar Martinovic was his idol and he whispered to him. I couldn't have expected anything better. Thank you for not giving the replica two minutes on all this... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10355	A fellow Milojic had previously asked for the right to replication, not about exposure. (Radoslav Milojic: No. No, you waved at the Rules of Procedure here, asked me to look at you, and I said it's okay, you'll get the right to advertise your Rules of Procedure, so I don't see what part of me Before that, he did, but then he didn't even speak to Mr. Markovic. [[Radoslav Milojic: I didn't ask for a replica before?]] (Radoslav Milojic: I know, I have intuition, he can't say anything smart.) So you've become a fortune teller, Mr. Milojits? The word has been made by MP Markovic, after the injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10356	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It doesn't really matter to me whether it's a replica or a Rules of Procedure, I only reacted because he said I made a mistake, etc. (President: But it's important to me. ) Therefore, it is the report on the revision of the financial reports of the final budget account and the regularity of the business of Smederjevska Palanka municipality. (President: Please specify a member of the Rules of Procedure who you are advertising. ) So, please, because of the citizens of Serbia alone, the State Auditor's report is no lie, no untrue.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10357	Two minutes from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10358	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 103. Just about the measure you applied earlier, and it concerns directly what Mr. Kenojcic just did, he's coming out now. Anyway, I think there was room for you to react the same way after his exposure. Everyone here knows what happened. A man with an uncontrollable desire to say something, not sure enough what he's going to do, speaks to you. It explains to you what a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and he wanted to throw something out after and after, so ugly and primitive as he only knows how to throw it to us. It's not an adequate advertising violation of the Rules of Procedure. You know that. I understand both the breadth and the tolerance, but impudence and badness should not be allowed. I think there was a need for you to react the same way, so you take two minutes of his MP group. It may seem harsh, since there aren't many, but as small and irrelevant as they may be, they can always have two minutes less. So much for this article 103. I sincerely hope that there won't be any need to react the same way every time these same people give themselves a little more luft than it is normal to take pictures for television to have anything to tweet, which, I believe, just now went to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10359	Thank you, colleague Orlic. I'd probably do that, but Mr. Milojicic turned off the microphone himself in half of his exposure, not me. The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10360	Mr. Markovic, thank you for your comment on the law, because our dilemma was whether it was the intention of previous governments or whether it was a lack of courage or whether it was a lack of desire to arrange such an important area of housing. I'll never understand why someone thinks it's an insult to mention what really happened in the previous period and these suspicious privatisations, where we're not going to say there was no DS at all. But through this housing law, we tried to make such a system that through the housing policy strategy that we will adopt next year we never again get into a situation where we don't know where 70 apartments are and that we don't have not 70, but one, that we don't have documentation about apartments in all local self-governments, and that's also at the state level. Thank you for starting that question, this is very important for our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10361	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10362	Are you sure I have a word tonight, since you didn't give it to me yesterday? Today looks like I can do rotations and everything's fine, right, and yesterday's punishment? (President: You have a clean ten, under that regular number. I don't have any ten, but you don't respect the Rules of Procedure. This is amazing just before I heard you say it, because you have caused a replica, I do not give a replica. So you're really writing the Rules of Procedure here, how things go. (President: Would you like to talk about the subject, Mr. Radulovich? Today we are talking about eight points of the agenda that have been pushed into one. So, five laws, three agreements, to read the laws: the Law on Airport Management, the Law on Housing and Building Maintenance, the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Goods, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Community Works and the Law on Public and Private Partnership and concessions. What do these five laws have to do with each other? Neither does the pronoun itself, nor does the one who suggested that these dots be joined into one. In order for citizens to know why dots are combined into one, a discussion on one item of the agenda, according to one law, typically lasts two to three days. It takes so much to go through the law, to discuss, first in principle, after the amendments, that we could really discuss the law. However, since the ruling majority of the debates do not need to, they do not prepare for these sessions, because in these sessions, as we heard the previous speaker, he spoke of everything, just not about these laws. (President: You, too, fellow Radulovic, have not prepared for the session, because you do not talk about the laws, so I ask you to return to the topic of the agenda. ) It was very important for us to find out if it was possible to continue my presentation, since the previous speaker, you did not interrupt him once, and he was talking about 70 apartments on Vrakar, the Smederjevska Palanka budget, and I do not know how you are not ashamed to interfere with me. (President: Do you not have any of these apartments on the Sorceress? So if you have 70 apartments on Vracar, you have to file a criminal report, that the people who have alienated the apartments end up in prison. If someone is in the Smederian Palace, they should end up in prison, not here harassing the Assembly and the citizens, saying things that have nothing to do with the agenda. These bill proposals and the Assembly were scheduled for Friday evening, so that the session would be scheduled on Monday, to shorten the time for MPs at all to prepare themselves and to seriously discuss these legal proposals, so that instead of each of these laws to discuss for two to three days and to really see what exactly is in them, they are all pushed into one debate for two to three days. Repeat, airports, housing and maintenance of buildings, transport of dangerous goods, municipal activities, public-private partnerships and three other agreements. This is highly unacceptable. (Vladimir Djukanovic: sit down. Thank you for the throw. Is there anything else you want to say? I didn't hear it, one more time. When it comes to housing, of course it is necessary to introduce order into the area of housing. The law that is in force today, the first version was in 1989, and after that in 1992 and to this day it is there, with a few changes in the meantime, and then this law appears which, slightly, is bad, will have disastrous consequences. It is very important that citizens know that this affects all citizens of the Republic of Serbia living in residential buildings, all citizens, some dragon measures that are truly totally unacceptable and in the orderly countries to which this calls. I lived in both Germany and Canada, in America, there are no such laws there. I would have one question, since the moment this housing law entered the Assembly, which was on November 22, 2016, there was also one member in the law 153. I'm interested – where did that member go and how did he find himself in that original proposal in the first place? "Blic" had one title page on this, and then it was withdrawn, otherwise, from miles it was called "the godfather's law", according to the prime minister's godfather. So this member was talking about the right to purchase a public property property that is used under a lease contract for a certain period of time. So basically all those who rented state-owned apartments, especially Dipos's villas and apartments, were supposed to get the right to buy them out, and that they could pay 20 years in dinars, no interest. I'm interested, if the Minister told us -- how did a member like this ever find himself in the bill, why did they even propose this, and then finally, and why did they pull this off? (Alexander Martinovic: Where does it say in the law? ) SNS deputies keep getting, so I would ask them to stop. (Vladimir Djukanovic: We will not. So you won't, that's what you're saying. That's what leader Djukanovic tells us he won't. The Housing Act introduces some real dragon measures, building managers introduce themselves. The way the law is stipulated is that whoever is the manager of the building, if elected by the household, has great obligations, has legal obligations, so it's very unlikely that people in the building will accept that job at all, because it's a big job, a big responsibility, and there's no fee. This opens a space for private managers, for which, interestingly, Serbia's Chamber of Commerce, a parasitic institution, will be the one to license building managers and to withdraw licenses. Here's an example of how partocracy builds itself a space to take away a racket. It's like a notary or an executor. Then we also have a section where municipalities introduce a forced administration, where they're going to set up these building managers themselves and basically set up their own people to run it. Did we, for example, ever see in the law how many buildings there are and how many people do this when a system like this is built? Serbia's Chamber of Commerce, which means it's a para-state institution where economic operators are forced to be a member, which is a topic and special discussion. Then we have a bunch of fines in the law itself, which prescribes what happens if we don't make legal faces for every building. In order for citizens to know what this means, every building where you have two owners, two housing units will have to make a legal face, get a PIB, a home number and a bank account. So we expect that after this, there will probably come some tax legislation on these housing communities, including some employment in them, because who will run accounting, who will do all these jobs, and how will these people be paid for it? There's nothing in the law, and it's supposed to be. Otherwise, there are these corporations in the West, but they're not so well-conceived that they all have to have them, but they're designed so that when someone's building a new building can build such a corporation, they can, of course, and later on, so people when they buy apartments in such a building know what they're committed to, and not with these measures impose something that really doesn't make any sense. On the other hand, it makes sense to impose obligations on the owners of apartments, building owners, to lay down regulations concerning them. But to make everyone make corporations, to make legal persons who will then be responsible, who will have their own expenses, who have to run accounting, is completely pointless. There's gonna be a lot of revolt over this. When citizens realize what's happening to them, it's going to be a big revolution, especially with the forced wardens. I don't know how it's gonna work, when the community sends someone who wants to take information from the tenants in the building and impose anything on them. So this is one nakarad solution that shouldn't exist. Finally, to add a piece around these protected tenants, the minister explained here that if there are protected tenants somewhere in Prince Michael, they have some apartments of about 70 square meters. So far, they've paid nine thousand dinars a month, and now the state is going to fix the position, so it's going to be 18,000 dinars, and in fact the market price is 49 or as the minister already said. Now, my question is, if these are private apartments, how come the state's right to ask private owners to run social policy, so it imposes a price of 18 grand on them if the market price really is 49? So we have a big break about it. And what does social policy have to do with property rights issues in apartments? So if we want to solve social policy, we have to do it with social cards, we need to know who the socially endangered citizens are, and not do it in this way, and give it 10 years again. I will remind the promoters that the previous 1992 law imposed on municipalities to resolve the status of all these protected residents within ten years, so nothing happened. Here's the I.G.A. again solves the same problem in the same way as giving a ten-year deadline. So I go back to this question – where does that Article 153 go? Why did you put it in law in the first place, by which those who rented fairies and other state-owned apartments could buy it for 20 years without interest in dinars? Why did you even propose that, and why did that member of the law disappear? This second part, are you aware of the amount of revolt you're going to make with the citizens, because this is not the introduction of order, this is the introduction of imposition and the creation of chaos. Finally, there were a few objections about it, for God's sakes, party employment, now it's gone. I really don't know where you get the face to say something like that, so the citizens of Serbia clearly know what that looks like. In Serbia, you can't get to work without a party relationship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10363	According to the Rules of Procedure, the MP, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10364	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's another reason, just for these gymnasts to leave me. Those who have long legs they go forward, but here's how dolls and dolls accuse us of being dolls of being some dolls, and when he snaps his fingers like this, everyone after him, he's at the head of the column. One more reason because I was being distracted while I advertised this Rules of Procedure, and otherwise I understand empty people filling themselves, but they have no right to break the Rules of Procedure. So the previous speaker is the person who often warns us here that we have violated the Rules of Procedure, or that we have not adhered to the subject of the agenda. I personally don't mind, I advertise Article 106, personally I don't mind that he missed more than half of his exposure. He mostly misses, which he missed the topic but given that we have to bear in mind that this MP group, which is called "never quite a lot," the Rules of Procedure said too often, saying that we are doing this, that we are not talking about the subject of the agenda I am obliged, a colleague for the sake of the audience, to point to this breach of the Rules of Procedure, and you, Mr. Chairman, do not mind that you have allowed a colleague with your followers to come out, that a colleague may be able to bypass the subject a little bit. I appreciate that you are lenient with this group, which has persistently complained that their rights are limited, and it is particularly touching when they complain in a direct transmission that they are not available on RTS television. For these reasons, a little further to make sure that the same rules apply to those who constantly complain when they do what they so often complain about. By the way, we have an understanding of your tolerance and I'm not asking you to vote on this breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10365	Thank you, colleague Rističević. You've just said all the reasons why I've been tolerable, because they're always complaining that they don't have the right to discuss. Let them discuss, let the citizens see what they have to say, to offer and to evaluate their work. According to the Rules of Procedure, Miljan Damjanovic. MILLJAN DAMJANOVIC: Mr. Chairman, you have violated Article 109 because Mr. Sasa Radulovic addressed the regime's MP, Aleksandr Markovic, directly for the first two minutes, and pointed out that he had not talked about the subject. The theme is the apartment. Aleksandar Markovic provided data regarding apartments that, he claims, have disappeared without a trace. Even if I'm not mistaken about 70 apartments it's said, the Vashcar municipality. Now, I understand that he, on the other hand, asked him, if he already had that information, why as an MP can't stand either a municipality or a public defender or whoever, a lawsuit against certain persons because in the past we had the opportunity to see that some of them were bringing prison shirts here, and then they were taking them as their advisors. Well, I'm afraid Alexander Markovic will one day take as advisors the same ones he's accusing today of stealing something. So, in this sense, Sasa Radulovic could say that, and I don't see why he would cover up anyone's theft. Thank you. Mr. Damnjanović, you've advertised article 109 concerning warnings. As far as I know, Mr Markovic later explained that he was reading the DRI report. It's an independent state body. I have no reason to doubt the truthfulness of the discussion. And now as to whether he spoke directly or not. Yes, he also addressed fellow Djukanovic directly, who will now receive the right to replication. He spoke directly to his colleagues, Markovic, and I don't know a parliamentary group that advertised the Rules of Procedure more and less, but that's their right. Right on line, MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10367	Thank you, Chairman. The replica because I was directly mentioned that I was throwing, and I didn't, I asked him a question. And you know why she laughs so cynically? Because he doesn't know any answers. And you know why he can't answer? Because he didn't even read the law. And you know why he didn't read it? Because you don't understand. And it's a terrible indicator of these people's incompetence. If we had applied his economic logic where he asked companies to give ID cards, we would have experienced an economic collapse here. If his tax reforms had been proposed, applied, we would have been at least two million in minus. So it's calculated by people who are of some kind of profession after all. And people who don't have any lawyers in their MP group. You can imagine a parliamentary group without a single lawyer. Well, that's scary. And, if we're already talking about the party, it's not our vice president, it's yours, the future in the Anti-Corruption Council. The mother of one MP is with the Anti-Corruption Agency. Let's not talk about what he's been doing all over the place, hiring his buddies, giving his best friends jobs. The godfather, among other things in the MP group and their wives, set up jobs for his and his best man’s wife where the bankruptcy directors were. They're talking about partocratism. Well, that's the worst possible hypocrisy. Please, really in the future that when they start talking about the law, and they don't stick to order, and we're having sermons here, I'm asking you to warn them because they don't have the right to teach anyone, especially those who have absolutely no competence in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10368	Right on line, MP Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10369	Thank you. I thank the MP for providing me with a replica, giving me a series of lies. Of course, in the MP group, enough is enough, there's no godfather of mine, so it's one of his boss's inventions, along with all the other things he said. However, the fact is, what is really devastating is that the SNS perfected party employment and led it to complete absurdity. So there's no room for anyone unless they go through their party committees and get party jobs. And then these incompetent personnel are placed in the most responsible jobs and causing huge damage to the state. If we look at this superhic budget that's been passed, it's nice to see that 47 billion dinars are being separated for the losses of public enterprises, run by incompetent personnel. Forty-seven. Pensioners were kidnapped 20 billion on an annual basis. We can see how much it costs to be irresponsible to SNS personnel. As far as ID cards are concerned, if they were introduced citizens know, it's the introduction of order, they'd know the property, they'd know the obligations, they'd have financial plans, economic plans, job systems, and some of them might have survived, not if everything had been destroyed practically. We have "Zelezar Smederevo", which made 270m euros in losses in two years, 2014 and 2015, for 2016 we do not know yet. We wouldn't have Er Serbia making huge losses year after year, much bigger than JAT had done before. This is the price of irresponsibility, the price of a party parasite that kills Serbia. I am pleased to be able to inform the citizens of what is really happening and would ask MP Djukanovic to allow us to discuss this again.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10370	The word has been given by the MP Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10371	You know about your competence will be told by company workers where you were a bankruptcy manager. Most of all, you're mentioned by evil, and unlike me and all of us here, you have a verdict from the Trade Court, and you've been punished, not us. So don't talk about competence. One is a really scary thing here. You are now the dead cold in your replica, disowning your godfather and wife. How would you give up the peoples? That's creepy. The dead cold you said was a fiction, that you had no godfather, no wife, no one. Imagine if you were to lead the people. Your future vice president lied about being a financial expert, and she ended up a geological or geodetic college. What are you talking about? You lied to the public that you had an expert at the Anti-Corruption Council, and she finished geology or geodesy, what she had already finished. How can you not be ashamed? I must object to our judiciary, Mr. Arsic. You know why? If this were a little bit more of a legal state, and it should be, it's just being established, this gentleman would be in jail, not in parliamentary benches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10372	The word is made by MP Vladimir Orlic, a replica of the party.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10373	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It would certainly be good for those who are now in a loud mood to explain once exactly how the parliamentary provisions governing the right to replication are. That's what I'm saying in principle. I'm talking to you now, Mr. Chairman. It's not a rare scene for some to wave at you with some kind of paper that calls on the subject as long as the replicas last. At least that's funny, you know it well and notice it, but when someone can't read the Rules of Procedure in a few months and understand it, it's already more of a problem for some. I just wanted to comment on a few things, and you, Mr. Chairman, are keeping an eye on, please, precisely, whether I'm going to give the basis for a replica by mentioning the name or any party. Take care of it precisely, because I'm sure whoever caused this replica will surely ask for the word again. If he does not have a basis, he will certainly complain about how he has been persecuted and how his rights have been denied. That's why I ask your attention, Mr. Chairman. As for SNS and party employment, we mentioned it today, but it's not bad to remember. At the very least, it is comical that any comment in this direction comes from those who have moved from party to family employment, who have misused the possibility of determining who will be an associate of certain enterprises and giving these jobs to their spouse. It's an example of a couple of excellencies, no worse than that. As for the budget story, you, Mr. Chairman or one of the MPs, might be able to identify whose words these are, and you follow if I have spoken any name. On the subject of subsidies in 2013, he explains that this measure exists in other countries, and it is clear that there must be something for investors to define for Serbia, so subsidies are needed. Who do you think that might be? Maybe it's not exactly the one who's talking about these subsidies today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10374	The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. (Saša Radulovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10375	First, like this, when you say... (Saša Radulovic: Replica. Please don't just run away, because I'd like to answer everything you asked... (Sasa Radulovic: I'm not going anywhere.) Replica, the chairman. So, please hold... (Saša Radulovic: Replica. )......................................................................................................... to ask Mr. Radulovic to stay here. Please stay here and let us explain, because you don't know, because these aren't bankruptcy managers, they're professional managers. That's the difference. (Saša Radulovic: Replica. Please, Mr. Radulovich, stay in the O.R. to explain. (Saša Radulovic: Replica. Why won't you stay in the O.R.?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10376	The Prime Minister and members of the Government shall be given the floor when requested and shall not be subject to restrictions on the duration of the exposure. Article 96... (Saša Radulovic: Replica, chairman. Mr. Radulovich, at least be a little... (Saša Radulovic: Replica, chairman. ) Mr. Radulovic Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, look at Ambassador Radulovic, how rude he is and won't let me finish my sentence and thought [[Saša Radulovic: Mr Arsicu, replica.]] Mr. Radulovich, please accept [[Saša Radulovic: Mr Arsicu, replica.]] The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. [[Saša Radulovic: Mr Arsicu, replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10377	Thank you. How about you let me go, Mr. Radulovich, to answer your question. [[Saša Radulovic: Fear of replica.]] (Sasa Radulovic: I have the right to speak. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10378	In accordance with Article 109. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I give Radulovic a warning. Item 1 indent 1, 2, 3, 4. (Saša Radulovic: Shame on you! )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10379	I don't want to interfere, but it's really not right for you to tell anyone here -- shame on you. Let me at least answer a lot of the words you've spoken about this law. In doing so, not because of you, but primarily because of the citizens of Serbia, because I would not want them to think that everything is a mess, as you say, that everything has been pushed away, etc. What's very important is that you've mixed up the concepts. So the bankruptcy manager isn't the same as the professional manager in the buildings. You professional managers are seen as bankruptcy managers. So this isn't about business, nobody's gonna make hundreds of millions of dinars like you as a bankruptcy manager. Here are the professional managers who need to help us arrange our buildings. You've mixed up in one more thing. Professional managers, it's true, they pass the exam, as well as the bankruptcy managers, but a little more serious than the one you passed in one day and became a bankruptcy manager. So that's a big difference, so I'd like you to look at the law again, and then comment. There are no fairies here, no buildings, no DIPOS, nothing in this law. It was neither in Articles 152, 153 and 154. It was related to the families of the dead police officers and the wounded officers in the war... (Sasa Radulovic: How can you lie so much? )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10380	I've turned on your microphone, Mr. Radulovic, so that all citizens in Serbia can hear you throw the minister to lie. That's why I turned on your microphone, so all the citizens could hear you throw away, how rude you are, and how incorrect you are. Go on, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10381	For what I've said, there is evidence, as there is evidence regarding the business of a bankruptcy manager, but also everything that will be governed by this law, I repeat once again, not a bankruptcy manager, but a professional manager. The total difference between what you did and what you did is obviously in court, which I didn't even know, and it's really terrible. Secondly, you're talking about partocrats, you're saying -- why the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, a para-state institution? Serbia's Chamber of Commerce is a serious institution, and we have passed a law that allows the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, along with the businessmen, to create an ambience to work. It's normal, I guess, that's where the training is going. All of what you didn't pass as a bankruptcy manager, these professional ones here for buildings will have to pass and get licenses so they can even do a job like this. You also speak, in your law, that it is absolutely unacceptable for you, and that is your thing, you have a lot of right not to vote or to be against, but you can't say that this law will lead to chaos among Serbian citizens, and therefore it is my obligation to say that what you said is not true, and to ask you to at least look at the law, because compared to everything you said, I would say that you didn't even read the law. When I talk about protected tenants. Yeah, the job was supposed to be done by 2000. Some governments haven't finished it, and we, as we all do, are going to finish this business with regard to the relationship between protected tenants and the owners of the apartments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10382	In accordance with Article 112. I'm setting a 10-minute break for the Rules of Procedure. [[After a break.]] We're moving on with our work. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go. (Saša Radulovic: Replica. ) By warning MP Sasa Radulovic that the institution of Article 112 is to return the session to normal flows, this should have been learned, the MP has been for nine months. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10384	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Arsic, honourable MPs, honourable minister, with fellow Members, I am pleased to see you very often in this high house, along with your associates, which speaks of your dedicated work. Both you and your ministry and government, in general. My little one won't talk about a set of these laws, because you did it better in the opening part, better than me and our representative of the parliamentary group, colleague Katarina Rakic. Let me just say a few sentences about the Community Labour Act. This law, like many others, has its foothold in the exposé of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Alexander Vukic, whom he presented to us, MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in the election of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on 9 August 2016. And let us not forget, I would like to remind you gentlemen, the MPs and the citizens of Serbia that the exposés of the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic, are the most transparent, most concrete, the biggest 260 sides and the best of all the previous 73 exposés of the Prime Minister of Serbia, starting with the first exhibition of Prime Minister, modern Serbia, Prote Matija Nenadovic in 1805 until today. It also informs us ladies and gentlemen, that the exposés of the Prime Minister Alexander Vukic, I quote in an international magazine that contains the "Si mago" list, is the first time in Serbia's modern history that one of the exposés of the Prime Minister, I quote in such a prestigious international magazine. On page 56 of the exposé, I quote – in a precise distribution of jurisdiction between the Republic and the locale that needs to be simplified and sharpened by the establishment of firm limits of permitted behaviour, the completion of the quote, and this also applies to this law on municipal activity. You who read it very well know that there is a borderline jurisdiction between the locals and the republics. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that's how our Prime Minister does it. According to a system rarely seen in Serbia's recent political culture. I'm telling you that system, and you check it every time I take my word. That system is written and spoken and realized. Written as you can see on page 86 of the exposé, delivered on August 9, 2016 in this high house of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and accomplished, here are gentlemen on your benches today. Those laws really do stand. Gentlemen of Parliament, this bill is very important for the further economic, economic and overall social progress of our society. Therefore, compliance with some of the provisions of EU legislation is of paramount importance. He has great importance among other things, and because the government of the Republic of Serbia has decided both the majority of citizens of the Republic of Serbia and MPs in this high house for the modernisation of the Republic of Serbia and these laws today form an integral part of the modernisation of the Republic of Serbia. I won't say much about him, but I will try to answer some of the MPs who made certain remarks today. One of the remarks was one of the people's MPs who threatened RIK's president, and he is famous for coming down through the chimney into this high house and threatening from the attics of this high house, and since all morning, as you can see and day advocated economic nationalism, he is known for hiding himself in a library during the KIM pogrom in 2004 and as a mouse between books so welcomed the pogrom. The citizens ask me why they always tell false stories about how you saw them today, why do they say they're stupid? Since he's a professor of Serbian language and literature, I've answered them that he invented the eighth fall of lush. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make a point, since he said he wasn't at a public hearing, although the Minister has disproved it, let me just say a few subjects, to indicate who's been discussing all this legislation. Among others, representatives of the resolution ministries, and four ministries. The complaint was made by a representative of a minor political group, so I believe he's read this law or he's pretending he hasn't read it, I don't know what it is. Furthermore, representatives of local self-government, representatives of community workers' unions, the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities and the Republic of municipal inspection, which played an outstanding role in the concept of the law. Don't be surprised, Madam Minister, that some of the political parties in this high house have insulted you and the chairman. This comes from one former prime minister, unfortunately the minister, who is only known for two things to the citizens of Serbia, in the first place because he took illegally from the Republic of Serbia's 530,000 euros in subsidies, and only because he caulmated the vine on the grass and the second because he vaccinated chickens in the village of Pukovac and made a vaccine out of yogurt and water. The chickens died, he took the money and ran. Let me say that it is also known for its vineyard in the town of Choki and the winery that has never been. We made another observation that our party, the SNS, was used by utility companies and that we used our staff to do the maltenes. I'll quote a report from the Auditor's Commission here in Belgrade. The former regime's representatives are so-called. The garbage mafia in Belgrade during its rule damaged the budget by 319,000 dinars and sentenced for the first time to 73 years, re-announced, the second time 73. I don't think the process is finished yet. In the end, they destroyed our past, the future of our children, and they blame us, our present, and if they had stayed in power for just a year, after 78 days of bankruptcy, they would have destroyed our roots. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10385	The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has his word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10386	The Honorable Chairman, Article 104, who gives the right to a replica when a parliamentary group is mentioned, a member of 106 who says that the speaker can only speak about the point of the agenda on which a search is conducted and a member of 107 concerning the dignity of the National Assembly and prescribes what tone and language colleagues should address each other. You failed to warn the respected previous speaker, to take a little care of the Rules of Procedure when discussing his topics. However, I would also like to thank him for this occasion, because it is indeed a pleasure to listen to Mr Atlagic speak. I call on the SNS to give word to Parliamentarian Atlagic as often as possible, because the opposition alone can benefit from that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10387	I don't understand your advertising of the Rules of Procedure. A colleague Atlagic spoke about the previous term, so we received more votes. The word has been made by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Here you go. As far as the House and Maintenance Act is concerned, Article 60 is indeed criminal that amendments are not allowed for the following reason. Article 4 states: "if the person referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3 of this article does not organise maintenance under this law, the competent authority of the local self-government unit will entrust the business of maintaining the building of the organisation etc." When we talk about the local self-government unit, according to the Law on the capital of the local self-government unit, the city of Belgrade and, in the whole of this law, if I am not mistaken, the municipality only appears in Article 131. The question arises here is whether completely what you were talking about today, which is being debated, will again be brought only to the city of Belgrade, because, as we know, in the previous period, every year as the regime changed the city's more and more powers took over from the municipalities. At present, we have a situation where municipalities have the authority of once a local community, and local communities only exist on paper. Therefore, Article 161 says - the local self-government unit can decide which provides for a grant co-financing of investment maintenance activities, in which case the local self-government unit provides funds in the budget for participation in the financing projects of these activities and makes a decision that prescribes the allocation process, the percentage of participation and the conditions under which the local self-government unit participates in the financing of these activities. What's wrong with it? You have a situation before, and now it's not solved by this law, it had to be made here, and there's no such decision in the city, a certain decision has to be made. If the city of Belgrade is a unit of local self-government, then it cannot be allowed to mayor, as Sinisa Mali went and promises only part of the facades that the city will completely restore because someone has made a decision, in fact selectively, and that other citizens must raise their own funds and maintain their own building. Or, if we're talking about it, then the city should have decided that all buildings are subject to the same rule, which is 30%, 40%, 50%, depending on how much money there is in the budget of the city of Belgrade, and that the rest is collected by the building's tenants. I'll give you an example of how the tenants and how pleased they are when they are offered such solutions. In the past few years, you've had action, if I'm not mistaken, together for our facade. The municipality of Stari Grad has called and 166 buildings have appeared in the contest. Unfortunately, they singled out the funds for only eight and that's not good. All 166 were ready to participate by 70%, but then the municipality on one side made discrimination, because eight buildings were solved, and 158 other buildings were not solved in the best interest. Somewhere they participated with 25%, somewhere with 20%, somewhere with 35%, but we now have a situation that they've taken the jurisdiction of the municipalities, that they don't have enough financial resources and in the best interest if they wanted to meet all the tenants of all the buildings, so 166 who applied, they could only solve eight at that point. On the other hand, we have a situation, and I quote due to Belgrade Mayor Sinisha Malog's facades, says – there are nine facades under way, Siniša Mali announced that by the end of the year another 25 facades will be solved in the city centre, and in 2018 more than 200 facades will be reconstructed, etc., and these facades are connected to the streets of the Republic towards Slavija, Bulevar King Alexander towards the Faculty of Law, Prince Milos and Nemina Street. The question arises whether the local self-government unit of Belgrade only respects citizens in downtown Belgrade or is it responsible for 17 municipalities, how much does it have under this local self-government? On the other hand, let's talk about how it goes in practice. Since the municipalities do not have that authority to do it themselves, then they are obliged to address the city's housing, and then they answer them – take from all the presidents of the municipalities, the council members to see how it works, and they respond – we do not have the means, if you find sponsors or funds, you solve it, so that there is nothing out of it, it will be selective again, it will be for those in the center. Don't forget that Belgrade and Barajevo and Sopot and Surcin and Vozdovac, that rural part, as well as other municipalities belonging to the city of Belgrade. Further, Art. 126th and 127th to discuss the rights of the building inspector's obligations and his duties. So there's nothing controversial about it. What's the matter? It is disputed that you, as Minister, asked to write illegal objects. Of the 700 thousand illegal objects then, the last information that was public, everything was listed somewhere around 200 thousand. Then it was said - we were complained that all municipalities of the local self-government unit had a small number of construction inspectors. I hope that's where we agree. What are you gonna do about it? Will you finally start hiring young, ambitious people who have finished colleges, who are able to do that part of the job? Article 131 says - a complaint may be made against the resolution of the municipal inspector of the local self-government unit by the municipal, or city council. What's the municipal council for now? What difference does it make to the municipal council if we're talking about a local self-government unit? What can a member of the municipal council do? To receive, to listen and to hand over the paper. We're talking about ingenuity. You can't put your grandmothers and frogs together, somewhere that your unit of local self-government is basically a member of 60, and then you say, "No, somebody else can do it." Since there's been a lot of talk about the employees and these protected tenants, I'm just going to stick to Article 141 on eviction. The law does not say what if an employee submits an emigration request to the user, and the local self-government user is not going to assign an apartment at the moment. You've been talking about a 10-year project and now we're solving the problem of people who came up 70 years ago. I'm also asking, why don't you solve a problem that has arisen since 1997 and 2000, when over 700 apartments disappeared on the level of Belgrade City? It is known whose authority it was. And then these other things that we're talking about. Second, what's the problem? You say units of local self-government. So if this one from the 76-square Prince Michaels is to return the apartment, the unit of local self-government is Barajo. Then he offers him 76 squares in Barajev, or in Padinska Skela, or in Krgnaca, I don't know where. You didn't regulate that by law. Another crucial thing. The law says up to 86 square feet. I really don't know, I think there's about two or three thousand of those tenants now and the apartments that are left, I don't know the exact number, but what if there's someone who has more than 86 square meters? Why, then, determine that they have to be more than 86 square meters at market value? They didn't take it violently. Someone assigned it to them a long time ago. You said it yourself - the law says when we speak 60, 70 years ago. What's really absurd, what you put into the law, only partly for the warden, but there were a lot of words, that's Article 53, Section 2 and 3. Item 2 says – the responsibility of the professional manager is to receive reports of malfunctions or other problems, disrespect for home order, noise and other harmful influences in the building, every day in the weekly period from 0.00 to 24.00 hours. Then say attitude three. — on the basis of the application referred to in point 2 of this Article, it shall inform the competent authority of the problem, i.e. it shall require the competent authority to take appropriate measures. Now let's get practical again. What if there's only one person in one building who's mentally retarded or has some intentional problem with a neighbor and calls him at two or three in the morning, noise, whatever? So it's really funny to put in law that someone works from 0.00 to 24:00 hours. You can wave your hands, but that's really funny. So you're saying right now he needs to notify the competent authority. Will the warden inform Belgrade of the problem that a light bulb died in the building at 3:00 a.m.? Thank you. Thank you. Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10389	Thank you for your comments, but you have not submitted any amendments. If you have so much dilemma and suggestion, I'm sorry you didn't do it then to consider these amendments. You haven't filed any amendments on this housing bill, you may be about other laws, but I'm talking about this. Let's start with protected tenants. I understand that you are now looking at only one side, and these are protected tenants, but the obligation of the state and government is to observe both sides, and the owners of apartments and protected tenants. We all agree, it happened once, but now it's a possibility and a way to solve it once and for all. So, we've given 10 years, we've given the opportunity to find an adequate apartment, exactly the criteria for that kind of thing, and it says in Article 90, that I'm not reading here what are the criteria. It certainly won't mean on a specific case, as you say, that someone from the center, say, with the Terrace, would go to the Ovec, or whatever you said. It will certainly be taken care of, but it also does not mean that it will get an apartment in the very center of the terraces. So there are some criteria that will condition that local self-government, for example in this case the City of Belgrade that has the most protected tenants, is 1,490, and Belgrade has them for example. 1,100 and so on, the City of Belgrade will create a programme, it is obliged to create a plan and programme and to adopt it nicely in the City Assembly and start to resolve these issues slowly. Secondly, when you mention here whether the units of local self-government, whether the City of Belgrade is, firstly, you know that the unit of local self-government is both the municipalities and the city, etc. When we speak specifically about the City of Belgrade, the city of Belgrade has arranged it with its statute. Of course, he can trust some of the works and municipalities, but it is the City of Belgrade that will, for example, in forced administrations, it will be the one who, if he doesn't trust this job, will certainly be the units of the type Voždovac, Stari Grad, etc. possibly assign forced managers, if e.g. There will be a need for that. So it's about the city and the statutes how it's going to settle its relationships. We may like it or not like it, but then you have to be part of the City Hall and influence some other kind of decision. The Belgrade City Assembly considered it the best way it could be done, because it would simply solve the serious and burning problems that exist in the city, which are slowly solved from day to day. One of the main messages is that no one will be left without an apartment, or a roof over their head. I think it's important to say it one more time, simply so that someone wouldn't think that protected tenants would be left without apartments, that the owners of the apartments wouldn't get their apartments, or that someone would go through the operation of the warden, etc. Also have, what we had in the afternoon in the debate, forced perpetrators. So that's not what it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10390	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Natasa Jovanovic is a national MP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10391	Mr. Chairman, I'm reporting to article 107. The Rules of Procedure, as well as Rule 27, because you are familiar, Mr. Vice President, and besides you is the Deputy Secretary, that it is simply not true what Mrs. Mihajlović is saying. (Alexander Martinovic: That was already. ) Mr. Martinovic, be patient and you will hear what it is, since you are also a participant of this conspiracy, if I may call it that. I'll remind you that it wasn't like that before, but you've now reported yourself in these congregation business manipulations, which I think is extremely incorrect and not good, and one day it's going to come back to you. In fact, Mrs. Mihajlovic, the point is that we have submitted 29 amendments to the Housing Act, because we have major objections, and Mr. Damjanovic has spoken about some. You do not have them because the assembly majority decided on December 4th that your request, a request from the Government of the Republic of Serbia for an emergency procedure, would not be voted upon by an urgent procedure. We are trying to do this because we have not been informed of it, because earlier it is, and it is very well remembered by Mr Martinovic, the Assembly, or the Parliament group, has always been given written form that the National Assembly has not accepted the Government's request to find some law in an emergency procedure, which you have now stopped doing, but as we now know neither until when it is done, nor how, nor when it will be the College of the National Assembly, which the laws will be found on the agenda. So, it happened, Mrs. Mihajlovic, and we have a big problem. Mrs Radeta, an SRS MP, who is one of, I would freely say, better lawyers when it comes to this area, have done, as have we other MPs, numerous amendments. That is why they did not find themselves in the congregation procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10392	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. I don't think I've violated a member of the Rules of Procedure at this point. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Right to replica, MP Miljan Damjanovic. Here you go. Thank you, Chairman. Minister, you haven't answered two or three key things, let's do it again. First, not for a moment, nor for anyone, either side, but for me to talk about the inadequacy, what if and if the city of Belgrade, since we're talking about 1,100 such cases, in ten years, has a strategy to make apartments and buildings that will enable these people to make a ransom tomorrow? Second thing, I was talking about building inspectors. You didn't answer me. It's very important. We talk about a lot of young people leaving, college-educated people, who are ready to bite, and how well you know they're needed for these jobs, because they can't reach, there's very few of them. On the third hand, we talked about municipalities and the city, and I asked you a specific question for facades. Does this mean that if the mayor makes his own decision, because this law makes it possible, whether or not, to go to Belgrade and say – these 200 facades we solve, you don't pay anything, and for the others we'll see how we agree? Because somewhere we have a case where citizens, tenants, didn't even give 1% to repair their facades, on the other hand, we have 30-35%. It's the oppression of those who respect the law of this country and who want to help. So, absolute discrimination against people who pay. It's like, since you're a resolute minister, when we talk about discrimination, like when you're constantly demanding to bring down the facility in Surcin on Ledin, and on the other side of Tomislav Nikolic's cottage, which, absolutely all the public is familiar with, you don't want to bring down and that leads to his sons. One is led to Branislav, which is on three pitches, and the other is on a young son who is on one plot. I understand that Mr Stojmirovic was well-forming Tomislav Nikolic perhaps in this scientific work, but I didn't know that... Thank you, colleague Damjanovic. Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10394	I really don't know why it would be a problem for local self-governments, cities and states to help fix the facades. I think we can all say hello and support it. Is that right? This law, no one does anything of their own free will. There are certain, you mentioned one municipality and a public call and a large number of housing units practically representatives who have reported that the facade is being arranged. What was the essence of it, since I was looking for information, we'll see to the details, is that we've seen what's most urgent or urgent. That's why, in relation to now, to the adoption of a law like this, we're going to have a situation where emergency work has to deal with local self-government units, or the city, and they mean those facades where there really are serious problems. When you talk about building inspectors, we have a ban on employment, that's true, but there are really cities in Serbia that have one and we have even two cities that didn't have any construction inspectors. In the meantime, we solved it. My opinion is that there should be more of them, and I am fully in agreement, as the Law on Law-Making allowed us to employ people at a certain time from the National Employment Service, therefore, not in any other way, so I believe that in the next period, if we really want to implement all the laws and we really have the results of the law, we have to have a lot more people in inspections, including construction inspection. When you mention, otherwise, the object on the Ledins, then yes, it was also your parliamentary question and you got the answer from the Ministry, but only for the public to know, the Law of Law, because there are a lot of hypocrisy, perhaps even, not to get angry, and your political parties, the Law of Law is primarily made to help those people who came from other parts of Yugoslavia, in moments that were very difficult, and settled in certain parts of our country around Belgrade to help them strengthen their facilities, their houses they built, because they do not have any other homes. But the facility you mention, the building inspector from New Belgrade gave a solution to the collapse, is the facility that began to be built after the law was passed, meaning after November 2015. Just to make a difference, not to put things in the same basket, because according to some different statements, it appears that the Ministry will, under the assumption that it doesn't sound so ugly now that I'm going to say, "poor people who have come to tear down objects". No, on the contrary, we want to legalize the facilities for them, but those who built after November 2015 cannot sharpen their facilities after the Law of Law was passed. Just a little explanation about your line about Ledine.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10395	Thank you. Col. Stojmirovic, you are mentioned in the presentation of counterpart Damjanovic and you have a basis for replication. Here you go. LJUŠA STOJMIROVIĆ: Dear colleagues and colleagues, I cannot understand young colleague Miljan Damjanovic, whom I thought was indeed one young man who will prove himself in his work, that there are no other problems in life except Tomislav Nikolic as my student. If the SRS, the radicals and young counterparts of Miljan are the biggest pain that Tomislav Nikolic is no longer their president, I think there is also a deputy president in the presidency, I assume there is some service for complaints, complaints, seditions, etc., so let them go there to complain. Tomislav Nikolic did take my exam and he showed by his knowledge that he deserved the grade he received. Tomislav Nikolic was co-author with me on one job and I don't hide it and it's okay. But the SRS promoted Tomislav Nikolic at the book fair. He's the author of 20 books, scientific works, as they say here, which was placed by the SRS, where the reviewer was a respected colleague, Seselj. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Read what books are called. I don't think so, all for you. "Aggression continues," "And Bijeljina is Serbia", "Dignity and Kosovo", etc., there are many, so as not to read all of them. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: And the last 'Sešelja za President'. No, that's not the last one, that's the first one, I guess, for you. That's the first one for you. But if you've already prepared Tomislav Nikolic, given this many books, for the Nobel Prize candidate, I want you to succeed, but don't get caught up in the fact that the man took my exam and passed the exam. Well, a lot of you from the SRS have been putting up with me and passed, no problem at all, because you've shown by your knowledge that you've earned those grades. Thank you. Comrade Damjanovic, I gave you two extra minutes, you had the opportunity to explain and ask further questions. I will now exercise my right under Article 104(3) and continue to work, given that we are too far away from what is a part of the agenda and I am giving a word to the next speaker. The word is by MP Marko Gavrilovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10397	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the Honorable Minister and the Guests, if we look back on the period from 2000 to 2012, what can we remember? We can remember the bad situation in the economy, the high unemployment rate of up to 25%, poor privatisations and many other problems in this country, which I would not now mention and to open up any other replicas. Also, we must never forget it, and we must always remember what happened in that period, to prevent it from happening again. During that period when you were trying to take a trip from this country, you couldn't take a plane because it was flying to two or three charter destinations to Montenegro and to some of the surrounding capitals of the former republics of the old Yugoslavia. If you wanted to go somewhere with the railroad, the train would have broken down somewhere along the way. In the end, you're left with a car, but along the way, they'd hit a hole in a hole, there'd be some defect, and there'd be your trip. Now, that was Serbia from 2000 to 2012 and we must never forget that. We have to stop that from happening again. When the people showed confidence in SNS and Alexander Vukic and when Aleksandar Vukic brought the strategic partner "Er Serbia" – "Etihad", what did we get? We have received that "Er Serbia" has a new fleet of Er bass planes, that today there are five million passengers per year, that travels to 57 destinations in the world, that we have a direct flight to New York and that soon the flight to China will agree, and hopefully be realised. What was the state of the country before in 2012, the same situation at the airport? Today it's a completely different situation. We have the "Nikola Tesla" Airport, which is now listed in airports that are leaders in the region. Most of the transit traffic of the goods crossing our airport, as well as the passenger. Also, we have terminals of new ones that can accommodate the largest planes. Further investment in this airport will allow this new law. As far as the airport is concerned, we can say that this law will help make investments at the airport in Nis, as well as this new airport in Zlatibor. Energy invested by Aleksandar Vucic with the government in air traffic also invested in road traffic and road infrastructure, where he had great assistance from the minister. By investing in infrastructure, we have completed the Corridors towards Bulgaria and will complete the Corridor towards Romania, according to Greece, and Corridor 11, towards the western part of Serbia. This will put Serbia in one of the most desirable countries in the region for investment and attract investors, of course, who have opened a large number of companies in the past period and hired 120,000 workers in Serbia. By the very amount of these jobs, the standard in the Republic will increase, consumption will increase, growth in the economy, the flow of goods will occur, and the standard of citizens will increase. Investment in air traffic and road transport infrastructure will bring new investors in, and new plants will open and up to 200,000 workers are planned by 2020. The government headed by Aleksandar Vukic has a vision of Serbia becoming a modern and advanced country, and by 2022 and 2023, we are also a full member of the European Community. I hope that, as the people expressed confidence and gave almost two million votes this year, they will do so in the next elections and will allow Serbia-Alexander Vukic and the Government, to fill all of this out in this period and to do more than that in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10398	Thank you. Mr. Aleksic, you are in the order of the registered MPs, you are present in the O.R., and it is my duty to read you, you only have one second. Thank you. The word is by MP Ivan Manojlovic. Here you go. Please, the word has an MP, Ivan Manojlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10399	Dear Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, here, today there are a few laws ahead of us here, I will not say important, because there are no laws important to us in the SNS, or they are less important, but good draft laws, i.e.. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law. A bill that is, i.e. which refers to communal activity, is something that I'm going to look back on at this point, and that really represents one logical extension of that current law to this moment, if, we'll all admit, it's pretty squish. The new law discusses details, precises mutual relations, rights and obligations of all participants in the exercise of municipal activities. Today, during the debate, we heard the need for individual representatives of the opposition to, when we remind them of some of their past work, then set out to disown each other, but at the same time, to defend them. It is true that some of them are for the first time in this House but must know that changing suits and moving to these benches can't justify them for what they did locally. I will also remind you of the words of Theodore Hus, who is telling the truth, who has the right to be forgotten. Judging by this opposition here and that there is no right to be forgotten, so not because of them, but because of the citizens of Serbia, I will only remind myself of certain things. Some of the facts that happened at the local level in Triestenik, as well as regarding this Law on Community Works. Here, just an example of how the JKP Komstan from Triestenik, and under the slogan, expertise above politics worked in the period until the SNS came to power. In 2008, the then power was appointed by the Director, who was very soon after the start of his term of office, i.e. After his appointment, he was arrested for abuse of his official position, it's for malfeasance, and when cleaning up the accumulated lake at the source of Zvezdan.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10400	Comrade Manojlovich, I will make up for your time but I ask you to return to the agenda, to what is the topic of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10401	This is all about the utility company, and I'd just like to connect how it's been going over the past few years.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10402	Please stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10403	I'm really in the dark all the time. Twenty million dinars were then spent by this public utility company, and at that time, nine thousand metres of cubic sand disappeared. Then that same former government hires another director who, after a certain time, is also arrested because, imagine, he lost a garbage truck somewhere. Also, for public procurement, i.e. For avoiding a public procurement tender for the purchase of a truck. Then the same former government introduces a third director who left 40 million dinars and full drawers of unrecorded accounts to a public utility. The only thing that was really regular in this public utility during that former government was the restrictions of water, which were, of course, as everything else was solved when the SNS came into power, i.e. when she took over that resource for communal activity. Also, they were returned, today there are all debts and according to the Water Directorate and all taxes and contributions as well as payments based on workers' lawsuits. Today projects are being done like a master pipeline that will take water to the village of Počekovina which is also located in the municipality of Trstenik. I wanted to say, that this is precisely because of cases like this, but because of the exceptional importance of communal action for the lives of Serbian citizens, it is clear that the problems encountered need to be solved as quickly as possible, but in a well-designed, comprehensive manner, on a long-term basis, which I believe is that this bill on amendments and amendments to the law and provides. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10404	Thank you. The word of the People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, is a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10405	Are you really, Mr. Milicevic, amazed that I want to point out that you hurt the Rules of Procedure? Article 98 clearly provides for what order the MPs speak. The previous speaker is on the lists, which we received and removed from the e-parliament, in brackets, where it says how we determine ourselves according to the laws, is number 81 as unspecified. This is where he now speaks to us instead of a MP who has declared himself to be a supporter of the law. Please explain - how can the MPs in the course of the debate change, not in order, but in the way that they define themselves according to the bill and tell us if we are allowed to do so? I know that, eventually, if you indulge, we can replace each other, and sometimes we can, and sometimes we can't, and then we can see that SNS MPs can change even the commitment in the course of the session. If that's true and someone can go from unspecified to supporting the law and appear as such on a list that was printed several hours earlier, then tell us, so that we do. I see that the SNS intends that certain MPs always speak after certain MPs. Apparently, the previous speaker intended to say something about the Triestelic. He wasn't particularly successful, so we can't figure out what he wanted to say, but he can't do it by breaking the Rules of Procedure. Please tell your SNS colleagues to do it a little more carefully. Let them think a little bit, let them see how this application goes for a word, let them see how we apply, and then let them plan to report their speakers accordingly. This is absolutely contrary to the Rules of Procedure, and I ask you not to allow future MPs to change the definition during the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10406	Do you want the National Assembly of the Days of Votes to be heard about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Alexandra Jerkov: I want you to explain to me. I'll explain it to you, of course. (Miroslav Aleksic: Replica. You have no basis for replication, but I am first obliged to give an explanation. So whether you have the option and whether you want to change your definition, it's up to you, it's your legitimate right, but as far as the specific places and order of the elected MPs are concerned, you know that it's a practice and that it's been happening within the parliamentary group and you've been allowed to do so during the past days. So here's the thing completely clear. counterpart Manojlovic spoke on the 15th in a row of MPs according to the application for a word. Fifteenth was supposed to be spoken by an MP or an SNS MP. The colleagues agreed on certain changes within the SNS parliamentary club, and counterpart Manojlovic spoke in front of the SNS parliamentary club, which is their legitimate right. Do you want the People's Assembly in voting day to declare the injury displayed? Yeah. I thank you, colleague Jerkov. Mr. Aleksic, you think you have a basis for replication by mentioning Triestenik. (Miroslav Aleksic: Rules of Procedure. We can't play games, colleague Alexic. I said you didn't have a basis for replication. (Miroslav Aleksic: You must give me a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10407	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm advertising Article 106. The Rules of Procedure – the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. So the previous speaker was talking about a period of seven, eight, ten years in Triestenik. It's interesting to me, because he's from Kruševec, where he came from to talk about Triestenik, and that's why I'm not surprised at all the nonsense and nebulism he's been saying. As far as the stuff about Triestenik is concerned, I'd ask the speaker to get to know himself better next time he wants to talk about Triestenik, because the man he accused of embezzling... (President: I understand...) Let me. I'm done. Don't interrupt me. ... is the man who now makes up the local government with SNS in Triestenik, and also the gentleman from Kruševec who personally wanted to call me is in Kruševec famous for... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10408	You've indicated a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I will not allow you to replicate through the stated breach of the Rules of Procedure. Do you want me to... (Katarina Rakic: Take their time. I'd take it if they did, but they don't have time. Do you want the National Assembly in voting day to plead? Thank you. A colleague who spoke briefly comes from Kruševac, but he is not represented in the National Assembly only by the citizens of Kruševac, but by the citizens of Serbia, and of course he has the full right to talk about all municipalities and cities in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I realized his exposure in the context of the effects of bad and good examples when it comes to the Law on Community Works, and I don't see that it hurt the Rules of Procedure. Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10409	Thank you. Dear Mr. Manojlovich, thank you for touching the law that is very important, which is less talked about and this is the Law on Community Works. Of course, you've set certain examples. I think there are a lot of such examples in the territory of all Serbia, where we have completely collapsed municipal enterprises precisely because, in some previous period, the presidents of the municipalities acted as some of the owners of these companies instead of investing in the development of these enterprises. Then we have a situation that has created a very large number of debts in various municipal enterprises, which is so important for citizens of every city, every municipality and government of the Republic of Serbia headed by Mr. Vukic, we paid all these debts for Serbian citizens. These are not small debts of local self-government for water, for garbage, for various things, but it is not a matter of what we have paid for it, we now have to do everything to raise municipal enterprises, that they can really give quality, that is, to meet their performance and to provide quality services. And it's not an easy process, because it's been destroyed for at least 10 years. Remember, among other things, the heat and the water and sewerage companies were all in Serbia's territory. Thank you for putting an accent on that law, because I think this law is very important, but somehow the housing law has put it a little bit together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10410	Thank you. The word has a national MP, Maja Vidinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10411	Thank you, Mr. President. Respecting the weather and respecting the importance of laws that are unfortunately united, I'm going to talk a few minutes about the Housing Act. I have to say, at first, that I think that the relationship... They've been watching us all day, I believe you know, citizens. They're upset. They have different information and it's important what comes from this House. Unfortunately, throughout the day, the discussion is all but about what citizens and citizens of Serbia are most plagued by. We're talking, we're talking about everything, just not how this law that regulates the everyday lives of citizens, literally affecting their rights and obligations... Every law is dedicated to people's lives, but the House Act that regulates the way we use our common rooms and our private apartments, the country's attitude towards it is something that concerns every citizen. Unfortunately, these discussions, which are dedicated to 90% of Serbia's prime minister, do not recognise and mock the concerns of citizens who listen to us and expect solutions from us. We've submitted a large number of amendments. Not all are "wipes", some are very specific, although I don't think the amendments "wipes" are irrelevant, they are even more than an attitude. In the end, I must say, in the beginning, the government's attitude towards the Assembly, towards the opposition's MPs, is not only the attitude towards the opposition's MPs. When we have two days to prepare eight important laws, it is a relationship with the citizens of Serbia, because we represent them here. We are obliged to review all the laws, prepare the amendments and represent their vote, so that this is not a relationship to the opposition, much worse, that is the relationship of this ruling party and the coalition to the citizens of Serbia. So this law affects the everyday lives of citizens. The way we talk about him is bad. The intention, Madam Minister, to introduce order into the Housing Act, even in this area, is good. I have no doubt that your intentions are good, however, at the moment you translate your intentions into such a proposal solutions stop being relevant. The solutions proposed in this law are bad. They're putting a few things at risk. Exasperated, we heard that argument today. Absolutely is. This law practically introduces several new authorities. Excessiveness, the growth of some obligations that have already been normalized in some laws. It's very restrictive. More important than that, his spirit is indignant, to report to the neighbor whose tenant lives in, to report to the IRS. Today in 2016, we have in Serbia a candidate for EU membership tax administration who has a campaign – report to the neighbour, report to the tenant, call this phone number, send an e-mail to this e-mail or report that a person who has not been reported lives in an apartment on the third floor. So, it gets into the privacy of the citizens, and I'm going to talk about it a little bit more, and it's hitting on the invulnerability of the apartment, and again it seems to be an injustice of the so-called. Protected tenants, who are such solutions all but not protected. Article 153, although he has been amended for 152 and 154, does not prevent me from saying a few words about him, because it is the intention of doing something that the president refused several years ago to sign the law adopted here by this majority, the Law on the Sale of State Immobility, you are here to make a privileged circle of persons living in luxury fairies, they buy those fairies, and 20 years without interest your argument is very interesting why you withdraw it. I hope that because of what you said in your explanation, that the families of the dead officers and soldiers will find a solution very quickly in the sublaws or in the proposal of some other law. In place of the safety of this House Act, citizens are forced to fear, instead of responsibility, they are forced into new procedures, new costs, new authorities, new complications with bureaucracy. Spaces for abuse in this law, and our amendments are mostly, or 90% about it, are incredibly large, please look at them in detail. We are practically introducing professional managers and forced managers, when local self-government introduces one building into a forced administration, we are practically introducing a new political body that is somewhere under the local community, and the local community, so the municipalities, today citizens have a problem with the exercise of rights. You, co-worker Komic, who has asked you several times today as an authorised representative how many registered residents there are, failed to get that answer. How do you think the tenants today are going to organize, how do you think they're going to make it between themselves today to agree that one of them, the neighbors they know, accept the obligations made by this bill, introduce an incredibly higher obligation than they had in previous laws? Only a few, especially the owner, relating to the collection of data, the explanation that has arrived and the opinion on our amendments is, all but unsatisfactory, the trustee for the protection of personal data has drawn attention to us, not only that the manager is obliged to collect records of who lives in which apartment, but you, in this bill, also oblige the owner of the apartment to when he concludes the lease agreement with the tenant who is with him that he must give it to the manager. What's with the manager's information? What's he using them for? Who gives them an insight? When they take those courses, they get a license from the Chamber of Commerce, do they know what they can do, or can't do with that data? Where does it say they're not going to file that information to the IRS? What guarantees, not to me, not to us, but to the citizens that these data, including the unique number of citizens, will not end up at the tax administration to others? When we talk about, tax cuts, rent increases, I said that people will report to each other where the tenants live, it is controversial to make some amateur tax collectors out of buildings and impose on them the obligation to collect such data. When we talk about the invulnerability of the apartment, in the previous draft that was at the end of last year, I see you've changed, tempered those provisions, but they are today, in my deep conviction, totally unconstitutional. The invulnerability of the apartment is a constitutional category and you in Article 14 say that the owner of the special work, you commit every citizen and citizen, that he is obliged to let himself into his apartment, because of some opinion of a construction inspector, only after the court's decision. Not according to the decision and opinion of the building inspector, you can enter the apartment. That, I have to say a few things about it, the city manager who in breaks takes care of the fountain that will sing in downtown Belgrade, he tells the Belgrades that they will be obliged to let someone into their apartment, among other things, that taking care of facades, elevators, roofs will now become both the obligations of local self-government and that they will have the right to impose that obligation on the household of residents, or the manager for the following reasons: if the facade on the building is not safe, if the parts tend to fall, or if it is simply ugly. Please, I've looked closely at the law, this doesn't stand in the law, so just please tell me if City Manager Goran Vesic isn't telling the truth, or if this is really an opportunity for local self-government to assess that the facade is simply ugly, quoting the manager, to implement such an obligation. So, when the municipality prescribes that a certain building is required to carry out certain works, only the manager gets the information. The warden has an obligation, very non-transparent, to collect some three offers and to perform works on that building. Afterwards, he accounts for all the residents who did not know about it, who did not decide on that decision. If they do not have to pay then, they will either block the accounts or will be practically mortgaged and inability to have the apartment they live in, which will be in charge of the amount that some manager and some local self-government has assessed about it. A few words, respecting the time to leave to my colleagues, about protected tenants. I understand, and it's not your responsibility, to understand right away, this is something that has been inherited by all governments for decades. One injustice that was done to the tenants who, I don't even want to call them protected tenants anymore, because because of the bill they're all unprotected, it's cynical that we call them that, the only ones who didn't have the right when all the citizens and the citizens were entitled in 1992 to buy out the apartments they were assigned to. They didn't choose to live in those apartments. These solutions, unfortunately, bring them into an even more unjust position, which increases their rent, leaves them with uncertainty whether they will get the square they deserve, a new injustice opens up. Please look at the amendments that are very detailed, which are in co-operation with more than 10,000 people, primarily the Belgraders, who have this problem, the details are very constructive and some solutions are proposed to repeat them. In the end, instead of simplifying our citizens' lives and telling the Serbian government offers to you, the MPs to consider the law that will make life easier for us, which will facilitate our daily problems, when we talk about housing, we offer citizens something that complicates their lives, something that introduces additional bureaucracy, additional costs and a great space for abuses.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10412	Thank you. Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10413	I mean, it's perfectly normal, it's your right, to have not only a lot of criticism, but to be completely against the law that the Government of the Republic of Serbia adopted at its session, based on 27 positive opinions, and even the opinions of those institutions where we didn't even have the obligation to have opinions, and to be against the law that's been in the process for a year and a half somewhere in the process, for a year and a half, it's been made and to be against the law that has passed at least seven public debates where we've really sent the law to all possible addresses, precisely in order to get as many comments. It's your absolute right. What I'm responding to right now is that if someone is scaring citizens with this law, then it's you from the DS, because you're campaigning against the law telling people that they're going to have private contractors entering their apartments, that someone is going to spy on them, that someone is going to rat them out, as you say, etc., which absolutely has nothing to do with any single member of this law. You've been working on some other laws, and you've been doing it in other situations, but here we're talking specifically about the housing law. So, everything you've said, first, that protected tenants will be back... As you say, it again seems to be an injustice to protected tenants. I understand that you want to make an impression on protected tenants, but on the contrary, I have to say what was to be done long before 2000 and after 2000, which is not done, this bill, I believe, when it was adopted, will surely be resolved. Secondly, you're talking about some kind of political authority. I don't even understand what you're saying. If this law is read, even if we put it with your political agenda, however you look, it's just amazing that you can read that there are some political authorities within this law and that forced managers or professional managers will be any political bodies. That's really not true. Also, you're talking about abuses that are possible. You mention members, and you see, as DS, fairies and DIPOS in this law. Neither is there in this law nor was it in Articles 152, 153, 154, absolutely no matter, these three members do not have any contact points with fairies and DIPOS. The DIPOS is governed by the Republic Property Directorate, so it has nothing to do with this law. Not even those three members you mentioned, and they explained how much you care about the citizens, because here someone wanted to put something into the law. To remind you, the regulation on the basis of which the working group wanted to put those three members, the regulation, among other things, was adopted in 2002 and renewed in 2009. These are not the years when the SNS was in power, and the only intention was, I underline, to solve the question of families whose members died on the battlefield or were wounded, and I can provide you with a list of those families and those people from the Ministry of the Interior. I'll always repeat and have no problem, for the tenth time, yes, it's clumsyly written and that's why it's been withdrawn. I repeat once again for the truth, it has nothing to do with DIPOS' villas, which you of course know, but it's great to say, now that citizens are watching, they think we wanted to do something. No, that's not what we do. I repeat, fairies, buildings, houses and DEPOS are in the jurisdiction of the Republic Property Agency and have nothing to do with this law. I repeat one more thing, very important, and it's about spying and advocating. Don't, really, don't put a riot where there's no need, where there's no reason, where it's absolutely not true. I really don't know what you can think of, do you think the president of the House Council is spying on his members in the building now, or is he giving them a heads-up? So it won't work either, possibly if the tenants of the building, the owners of the apartments, decide to have a professional manager, which is not an obligation but a possibility, neither will he be able to do. He's here to help run that building. It's just that and nothing else. You mentioned Shabic, I repeat once again, 27 positive opinions. This law would not have been in the cabinet's session if the Commissioner, Mr. Sabic, had a negative opinion. Not this one, not any other law we've proposed. Mr. Sabic looked at the law so he gave certain suggestions, we changed it compared to Mr. Sabic's suggestions, got a new opinion from Mr. Sabic, who is completely positive and exists and can be seen, and can be placed on the site to be seen. Neither this nor any other law. So when you say something, okay, some things you may not know, but on the other hand, I'm undermining again, don't run a campaign that scares the citizens. I understand that you're against it, it's totally fine, but don't scare the citizens because it's not correct and above all, it's not politically correct, if we say so, and it's not correct for the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10414	To mention DS, the right to replica, authorised DS representative, MP Gordana Comic. Here you go. (Ljubisa Stoimirovic: Which DS, there are eight. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10415	Thank you. I also thank Parliamentarian Ljubisa Stoimirovic for closely monitoring the processes which DS leaves indelible traces in people's reactions. We'll keep it that way. Whether the DS campaign scares you or not, that's your experience. I'd be sorry to scare you, because I don't think there's any reason. At least three arguments say there's no reason. First, the DS is an opposition and there's nothing the opposition can do to scare you, because being an opposition means not being in a position of power, such as the minister, the Prime Minister or the president of the state. Secondly, the DS has an attitude and it would be good if you did not attribute the DS to the MP you speak to in your reply. Her name is Maja Vidinović. He's got his attitude, he's got integrity, he's got the right as a national MP to express his position. And third, even if you are afraid of DS, even if you are a National MP, Ljubisa Stoimirović, you are not sure whether you are afraid or like it. You have no right to determine what kind of DS campaign will be, and you have no right, that I am able to assess whether this DS campaign is good for you or not. If you don't think it's good for you, I'm glad it's a good campaign. It's the work of the opposition. That there are campaigns that point to the lack of credibility of those in power and power. But I don't think there's any need for you to call in your replicas to the DS when you have a national letter with a name and a last name in front of you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10416	Thank you. Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10417	I'm absolutely out of it, and I'm never gonna get involved, nor am I gonna get involved in any political campaigns other than my own, and far from meddling in the DS campaign. But I have an attitude. As a letter, or as you or anyone else has an attitude, allow me to have an attitude or not to have an attitude. Yes, my position is to scare the citizens of Serbia, not me, I'm standing here by the law, I'm going to talk about the law every day, and each of us is going to talk about it, but you're scaring the citizens of Serbia with a story that absolutely doesn't exist, never existed in front of a draft of this law. My opinion is that you're scaring, maybe you're encouraging someone, I don't know, but it's my view that you're scaring and letting me just say my opinion. I'm sure you won't mind my attitude.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10418	Mrs. Comic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10419	I have no reason to be angry at the minister's position, but I hope you're a citizen too, so I don't know which citizens you're defending from us? What citizens, you think, will find themselves hit and terrified by the DS campaign, if it doesn't affect you, who are you defending? And of what? In a DS campaign that shares information with an attitude and the same as you have an attitude. You can have both the attitude and the assessment of what DS is doing or not, but from the position of power, from the position of power, and DS from the position of opposition. And if power from the position of power says, it protects citizens from opposition, we have a much bigger problem than if I have anything against you having an attitude or not. Of course not. But a society where the government is called upon to defend some citizens without participating in the feelings of these citizens, the fear of the opposition, that society has a problem. The sooner we understand it, the sooner we'll understand it's time to stop and mock the rule of law and twist reality and move the roles of power and opposition when their place and time is not. Citizens have no reason to fear any DS campaign, all DS campaigns from 1990 to today were campaigns that were at the heart of modernisation, Europeanisation and social reform in Serbia. I'm glad some of the parties accepted the idea, and God help me with the campaign and the slogans of the DS, and God help me with the staff of the DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10420	The word has been made by Minister Dr Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10421	Very short. The first information can be accurate and can be false. Unfortunately, the information you're running on this bill is false and I have to say it. Secondly, for me citizens are never some citizens, they are citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I respect them very much, because I am also a citizen of the Republic of Serbia and I have the right and the right to say it. When you talk about modernization, that everything's been arranged, that's how campaigns were, then I don't know why we've had such facades and why our facades are happening to us when it's been so wonderful in the past 15 years. No, but that's why we're here to fix it and there's no reason to say what's not in the law. The law makes it very clear, and some of the things you say are really not true, i.e. to say the information is false, which you release towards the citizens of Serbia. That's what I said.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10422	We're closing a circle of replicas. We continue with the order of MPs according to the application for a word. The word has a folk emissary, Ana Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10423	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister Mihajlovic, with his associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is today ahead of us a set of laws. I, due to limited time, will only limit myself to the law on housing and maintenance of the buildings of the Republic of Serbia. This is a law that concerns every citizen of our country and therefore it is important to explain it in a practical way through examples from practice. Here I would refer to the work of the municipality of Voždovac where I was a member of the council in the previous term to explain in the best way what were the problems we were facing, and what are the solutions that this law will bring. There are only 35% of housing units on the territory of Voždovac where there are established residents' congregations. We will agree that this is a very low percentage and that those other tenants who are not in these buildings where the congregations are formed really do not have a legal basis, that is to say, struggle for their rights. This law is good because it will now allow other citizens to get to the nicer entrances, to the nicer facades, to the elevators that work. In view of the need for citizens to be informed in one place and because of the need to register housing communities in one place, the law also proposes a one-stop shop system which will also make it easier for representatives of municipal, local self-government authorities to solve citizens' problems. So far, the Voždovac Municipality has shown great will to address citizens' problems, both through meetings held with residents' congregations and through meetings of representatives of local communities with non-citizens, and through committee groups and committees who have always been there for the citizens of Voždovac. This bill allows us to bring a system solution here, to determine the rights and obligations of the tenants, to determine who will be the managers of these buildings that will best represent the rights of those citizens. Citizens need to know that this law does not bring any new commitments, that there is adequate service for the money they pay, and that this law is equally good for the state, who will know where it invests, as well as for citizens who will now live in a better environment. Due to the inaccuracy of residents' congregations so far, a lot of parcels around the buildings were not arranged unless they were in the jurisdiction of the public utility company, which would also set an example of the Voždovac Municipality which organised the eco patrol service that arranged these plots around the buildings themselves and thus always came out to meet the people of Voždovac. What I would especially praise about this law is that a social housing system has been introduced, and as a woman, I would also especially commend the provision of victims of domestic violence that is now included in this law, which is why we are really a step further in respect of human rights. It is clear to me why this law includes a certain amount of forced administration that is being introduced into buildings, because it allows for simpler decisions to be made where there are problems. These are some negative comments, and I would like to explain in one practical case why this is effective. I'd like to compare it with the Parliament's Rules of Procedure that we're applying here, and I'm going to do it on a practical case that we've had a chance to meet in the last few days. Namely, I would refer to a colleague who, the other day, shared a tweet that she claims to be very competent and says I can't read. And not only that, but some other things I wouldn't go further into this topic, but I actually insulted her just for not agreeing that the budget for the most socially vulnerable should be directed to other purposes. Just like tenants sometimes can't agree, so that's why we need to force management, so we need a Rules of Procedure here. We can't always agree here. Some MPs are like this, some of them raised like that. My position is to make arguments here and to have someone tell you why they want those social-hazarded funds to be directed elsewhere. However, someone has the view that instead of being polite and cultural, he talks to his colleagues not as people, but rather about them and, instead of discussing them, he demeans both on Twitter and in this congregation hall. Let's just get back to the subject. As is the efficiency of the Rules of Procedure, so will the effectiveness of this law be implemented in both the Vozdovac Municipality and other municipalities of the Republic of Serbia. I would just add, while we are already talking about these social benefits, that this subject of confiscation, or not to the most endangered by a certain opposition party headed by the already well-known bankruptcy king, has recently shown at the Voždovac Municipality Assembly, when they became the only opposition party who did not want to give their diaries in favour of the establishment of the humanitarian fund, so it is clear to the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10424	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary, Jasmina Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10425	Thank you. Dear Parliament, honourable representatives of the promoter, I will talk briefly about the law on the transport of dangerous goods. The law on the transport of dangerous goods applies to the transport of dangerous goods in road, rail and inland water transport in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. So that's his area of application. That is what Article 1. It's a bill of law. It is about land traffic, which is also logical, as the law is passed to bring domestic legislation into line with the European Parliament and the Council's directive on the land transport of dangerous goods. The proposal also states in the reasoning of the law on page 58, the first paragraph of the reason for the adoption of the law. I'm not gonna read it so I don't waste my time, but it's easy to find. What am I asking as a question now? Why are there provisions in this law and the reasoning of the law, and those of importance regarding air traffic, when it is not an area of application of this law? Here's the thing. In Part 5 of the Law defining supervision, in Article 61, the Proposer defines jurisdiction over the implementation of the provisions of this law and the regulations laid down under this law and says in the position of the 6th to 48th page that surveillance of the transport of dangerous goods in air traffic will be carried out by an air traffic organisation responsible for civil aviation. It also says for inspection in Article 62 that inspection of the transport of dangerous goods in air traffic will be carried out by an air traffic organisation responsible for civil aviation. Air traffic is inconsistently mentioned on the same side on which land traffic is defined as an area of application of this law, so road, rail and inland waterways, so that only in paragraph 5, so only four paragraphs later, the promoter extends the area of application and includes air traffic. I'd say this is left over from some previous version of the bill, which included air traffic. I can figure that out based on work material on the Ministry's website. The draft law on the Ministry's website on 12 November 2015, when the public debate began, clearly showed that air traffic from Article 1 and then by order from other provisions, some 20 provisions, other than these two I refer to, were deleted. The table attached to the law shall bear the date of 12 December 2015. So, that's a little bit before the public debate started, day, two. The table also says that air traffic is included as an area of application. So what's explicit with Article 1 of the bill here is excluded. So there's no air traffic in the first of this law, and there's air traffic in these provisions that I'm talking about right now. So my question is, is the law also about air traffic or is there some other reason? I would be inclined to believe that the air traffic provision is laid down in Article 61 or in Article 62 for some reasons which may help to control the operation of a part of the air traffic transport, however, my expectation is disappointed by the fact that in the light of the law, it is explicitly said that in part five will define control and inspection of land traffic. So there's no indication that air traffic surveillance will be defined. What is not in article 61, which I expected to find based on the reasons of the law, is that it will define which body controls the transport of radioactive material. Therefore, it is clear in its explanation that Article 61 will define that this will be the responsibility of the ministry in charge of ionising radiation, however, there are no provisions in the law. From here I conclude that the proposer did not regulate the issue of supervision of inspection surveillance of the transport of radioactive material, although he intended to do so, which I conclude from the explanation. So I'd have submitted the amendment if I'd seen this before. That's what I have to say. So, I have no intention of talking about this now, and if I hadn't seen it before, I saw it yesterday. I have submitted several amendments, one of which has been adopted. My intention is best, and therefore I suggest that, possibly, these provisions of the law be likened to what is the area of law enforcement, so that the committee responsible for the issue of this law would meet, what is the right under the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. This is Article 157(6), which says – in the time between the completed principled search and the opening of the draft law in particular, the committee responsible may submit an amendment to the draft law. So, I suggest that the committee meet and then make these provisions available, that in Article 61, if air traffic remains in it by chance, it should be deleted and a provision should be introduced which regulates the jurisdiction for inspection of the transport of radioactive material. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10426	Thank you. Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10427	No error was made. Therefore, the mention of air traffic was a necessity in this law, since this substance was not treated in the Air Traffic Act. We will certainly do so by amending and supplementing the Air Traffic Act. Until we do, it'll be in this law. Otherwise, air traffic is used, i.e. it is also applied as an agreement and will be implemented through the Air Traffic Act, on changes and additions. So it's no mistake. When you mention radioactive material, there's an ionizing radiation protection agency, it takes care of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10428	My colleague Nikolic, you have no basis for replication, you have received a very concrete answer to the question you have asked. (Jasmina Nikolic: I did not. It is, of course. Before we continue to work, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to introduce you to the contents of the memo we received from the Public Media Institute of the Radio-Television of Serbia. We would like to inform you that today, on Wednesday, December 14, 2016, we will not be able to follow the meeting of the Serbian Parliament in direct transmission, on the second RTS programme due to the previously agreed obligation to transfer the match Serbia – France, European Women's Handball Championship. After the broadcast is completed, we will continue the transfer of the session of the Serbian Parliament, and the recording of the part of the session that was not broadcast directly will be broadcast below the programme. The word has a folk emissary, Marija Jevdzic. Please sign in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10429	Thank you. I would like to point out from the very beginning that the Parliamentary Group of Unity Serbia will support the proposed laws we are discussing today, as well as the other draft laws on the agenda of this session. The proposed law on housing and maintenance of buildings has drawn great attention to the public, which it deserves, as it will finally introduce order in buildings, define the obligations of residents, and will also establish a sustainable way of living, all in order to enable citizens to live better in housing units. The law does not provide for additional costs, and one of the main newspapers is the introduction of an obligation for each building to form a congregation of tenants elected by the building manager, leaving the possibility for residents to agree and choose between themselves. In case they don't agree, they can hire a professional manager outside the building, which I also see as a chance for local housing agencies to thus expand their activity and offer to the buildings of service of professional managers. It is often impossible to make a deal between the tenants and, as an epilogue, we have ruined buildings that no one maintains, damaged facades, and you, a respected minister, have noted in your presentation that there have been cases where such buildings have been a danger to a third party. It is this law that we will have a responsible person who will worry that such cases will no longer exist, and on the other hand, the institution will know who they should talk to if something like that happens. For example, there are about 550 registered entrances in the Kingdom, of which 115 signed contracts with a local housing agency, and all 15 are active. It's just a real picture of the householder's relationship to the buildings they live in. I think living in an apartment involves the same obligations, in terms of maintenance, as well as living in a family home. Imagine the family living in the house letting the roof rain down on her, that her facade was down, that the yard was abandoned and that someone from the neighborhood would come and do all the work for them. That's not how it works. The tenants should become aware of their obligations to the buildings they live in. If they are unable to agree to take care of the functionality of the building together, this law allows them to hire a professional, in this case a licensed manager who will take care of it. There must be a bond between citizens, local self-government and local housing agencies. Citizens should be initiators, and local self-government should find a way to improve life in housing units through housing agencies. The idea that exists in some cities is for local self-government to predict with their budget a fund that would be subsidized or credited to maintain a facade, or invest in the energy efficiency of their buildings. Of course, they would certainly be better subsidies, because in this way citizens would be encouraged to take care of their buildings that are not, in the end, just their problem and concern, but also the concern of local self-government. Finally, this law, after 70 years, addresses the issue of protected residents who have remained to live in apartments and after denationalisation, they are returned to the owners, and such owners in Serbia are currently around 1,500. This law would return the apartments to the right owners, and protected tenants would be moved to apartments in public property and would be able to buy these apartments. I am putting an emphasis on the fact that this law has a general interest in finally introducing order, and as such it will certainly have the support of the JS parliamentary group in the voting day. As regards the proposal for a law on airport management, airport management is intended to become an activity of general interest and the possibility of granting an airport in a concession in order to provide money for their development and more efficient commercial use. For us from the JS parliamentary group, each airport is important, so the establishment of the Business Society "Serbian Airports" is certainly good, for the reason that it would affect flight safety, but it would also allow some airports that are not in office to finally be able. This is also the case with Morava Airport in the King. As a royal, I believe that soon the Morava Airport will be in office for civilian flights. I know that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as your Ministry, has recognised the potential of this airport and how important its functioning is for the economic and economic development of the entire Rasko District. It should point out that in the event that "Nikola Tesla" airport is privatised with a concession of 25 to 30 years, Serbia's budget would have income from 550 to 600m euros, which is certainly not a negligible sum. And this bill will have the full support of the JS parliamentary group in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10430	Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10431	Thank you for your comments. Thank you for supporting these laws. Regarding the Airport in Jagodina called "Barutana", I think that's where the flights are taking place, I know about the plan of local self-government to expand the airport. What we will be able to help through the "Serbian Airports", we will certainly do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10432	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Aleksandra Belačić.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10433	Thank you. So, ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, the SRS parliamentary group has read in detail all the legal proposals on the agenda of this session. We are used to the ruling majority proposing legal solutions that are often out of line with the well-being of citizens or the Constitution. However, just when we expected nothing to surprise us, a bill on housing and building maintenance was put in front of us. The attitude of the SRS is that this bill is extremely bad. We had a desire to improve the bill with amendments, and we are sorry that our amendments did not enter the procedure. However, in this present presentation, I will present everything we wanted to propose to the amendments. For the SRS parliamentary group, the most controversial part of the law refers to the introduction of a professional building manager. The bill states that a natural person acquires the qualification of a professional administrator if he has at least a secondary education in a four-year period, if he passes an exam for a professional manager and obtains a license under the law and is registered in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. The law provides for the possibility of establishing companies dealing with professional management, and this business will also be able to deal with entrepreneurs, by hiring persons who meet the conditions for professional managers. The organizer of professional management has the right to deal with professional management affairs if he has at least one person working with a certain time with full-time work, which is listed in the Professional Managers' Register run by the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. It seems to us that such a legal definition is suitable for setting up long-term investment jobs for individuals close to the ruling regime. When this law is passed and all of this comes to life, we will see who are the persons who will establish companies that deal with professional management. It is already clear to us that it will be the very people close to the ruling regime. Furthermore, the bill states that the housing assembly can decide at any time that the management tasks are being hired by a professional manager or may be forced by the introduction of a forced administration. In the case of a forced manager of a residential building, the amount of compensation paid to him by the owners of the apartments is determined by the decision of the unit of local self-government. We believe that professional managers of residential buildings are given this law too broad powers that are being violated in some parts of the Constitution. It is particularly controversial that according to the bill, a professional administrator is entitled to keep records of tenants, so that the state can charge taxes from landlords. The question arises – why does the state not pay itself for professional managers who will work for it and not for the tenants? The building manager is given a duty to expose tenants, as well as to report them to the IRS, in order to charge a 20% tax. Thus, he violates the Constitution, since under the Constitution only the MUP has the right to control where anyone lives. As regards insurance in residential buildings, the housing community, under the law, may conclude a liability insurance contract for third parties due to non-preservation, or incorrect maintenance of the building, and in the manner and under the conditions laid down by the law governing the activity of insurance and the law governing bond relations. This is not right because no one has the right to commit the owner to cash without his exclusive will. The legislator is not aware of the difficult material situation in which most Serbian citizens are located, and the housing policy, which really wants to fix the conditions of citizens' housing, must take into account their material situation, not that the proposed solutions make it worse. The third issue concerns maintenance and improvement of building properties. The bill states that these transactions can be financed from loans, donations and other sources. The bill also states that specific parts of the building, i.e. the apartment, can be placed for mortgages. Citizens can thus be left without the will of the manager who has decided to raise credit for the renovation of the building's common rooms. It's amazing that you didn't realize to put in this law a provision to entrust the building managers with the spare keys to the mailboxes. Why not? For example, to record our mail, everything we do, etc. Is it your goal to hire your activists by introducing a professional manager in buildings and to enable them to make sure that they receive a salary from the state budget to record safe votes in residential buildings? You'll, of course, say that's not your goal, I'll say that's your goal, but it doesn't matter. All citizens of Serbia are equal to the SRS, including those to whom you will trust these jobs and who are in favor of your foreigners. We would be just fine with anyone getting these jobs, if these jobs were in line with the law, and if the citizens really had some benefit from it. You must be aware that an ordinary citizen is far more important who will be the manager of his building than who will be president, prime minister or any minister, because the president, prime minister, does not have to listen if he does not want to, and the manager of his building will have to look daily and work with him. Citizens are currently being terrorized by both the municipal police and private contractors, and now they will be terrorized by building managers. The question arises – what is next? Will you then set up apartment managers, and personal managers for each of us who is not in your will or perhaps going in some other direction, and introduce the managers of housing blocks, municipality managers, city managers, etc., until you reach the introduction of the Head of State? Why not, you can do it without a choice and then you're free to do what you want. This law represents the exercise of will, and beyond the back of those who chose you. No one voted for SNS to turn life into life in an institution. It is not our goal to scare the citizens, but to warn them of possible abuses of the law. Also, it's a controversial way of functioning the apartment building assembly. The bill states that members of the housing assembly are all owners of the apartments, and that whoever owns several apartments has a higher number of votes at the session of the apartment building assembly. We believe that this solution is not correct and that if one person is at the same time the owner of several special parts of the building, that person should not have as many votes as the housing units, but that to assess the number of votes is the measuring surface of the apartment which the person has, because someone can have one, two or three housing units, while another person can have one living unit, with a far larger square. It also says that if the owner of a separate apartment is unreachable, his vote is not included in the quorum, i.e. the total number of votes in the decision-making process, and the owner of the apartment is considered unreachable unless he responds three times consecutively to a session of the residential community assembly to which he has been called. It is pointless to take away a person’s right to vote just because he has left out to inform about his absence at meetings of the apartment building congregation. Each owner of the apartment has the right to participate in decisions taken at the meeting of the congregation, as long as he has an apartment owned, and his right to respond or not respond to the sessions of the household. The bill also states that a unit of local self-government can prescribe the obligation to maintain the external appearance of a building, i.e. a facade or a ban on changing its appearance, which is a ban on setting up air conditioners on the outside of the visible part of the building, while prescribing different degrees of obligation to maintain the building's external appearance, depending on the urban zone or block in which the building is located. I am now interested – what does the obligation to maintain an external facade mean? Does this mean that citizens are obliged to finance the facades that are damaged and that can be dangerous to someone's life or are we obliged to finance painting every time a graphite appears? If the problem is graphite and if citizens are obliged to pay for the painting of buildings, then it is not correct, because you are obliged to prevent such incidents. I'd be done for time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10434	Thank you. Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10435	Thank you for your comments. I'm glad to see that you're actually completely in agreement with DS and what you said is totally consistent with DS comments. I'm obliged to say a few things that you're wrong about. Every decision in one apartment is made primarily by the owners of the apartments, not by the owners of the apartment of the professional manager, but by the professional manager to listen to the owners of the apartments and help manage the building. Then, you said one thing, and you're absolutely right that it's like you said, which I'm going to say now, yes, that would be unconstitutional. But it's not like that. You said he was keeping records of tenants for further tax records. If that were the case, I would totally agree with you, but it's not a professional manager's job and he's not doing it for any tax records. The professional manager should know from the owner whether he has a tenant or not because of one thing, which is who will pay for maintenance and who will participate in building management, so who will appear at these tenants' congregations and vote and negotiate with certain decisions and specific plans and strategies. Then, if you did, you said, if you don't respond, or what is in the law, that you're completely losing your right. Every time he shows up, the owner of the apartment or someone he authorized, let's say the tenant, is involved in building management, so he's going to be involved in all these tenants' congregations. No loan can be taken by a professional manager, or a mortgage, or anything, anything, that is not agreed and not by the authority of the owner of the apartment, or the generality of the tenants. So, once again, the professional manager is here to help and listen to tenant owners, only in order to be more efficient in maintaining and better maintaining buildings, not that he prescribes certain, I don't know, decisions to give and that the tenants themselves should implement them. That was the shortest I could answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10436	Thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10437	Article 107, of course, is at stake and is being violated all day, because the chairmans allow Zorani Mihajlovic to insult the MPs, to insult the parliamentary groups, or to insult the National Assembly. That's absolutely inappropriate. I also warned you the other day to keep an eye on, the chairman, that you would not allow the SRS to interfere with any other parliamentary groups, and in particular there is no right of the minister, and in particular there is no right for Zoran Mihajlovic, who brought Labus and Dinkic's policy into the SNS, which is their thing, because if someone can be evened out then they can. Let's say the advances with the LDP, because Ceda Jovanovic himself says he is satisfied with Vucic's policy and progressive policy, because they are actually implementing LDP policy. That's what the whole of Serbia sees. But that's your thing, but let the minister tell the MP, that she's happy and satisfied, because the Serbian radicals agree with the DS, is inappropriate. The minister can only speak to arguments about the bill. The minister doesn't have the right to make political speeches. It's the right of MPs. Indeed, it is high time for ministers, especially Zorani Mihajlovic, who is in his conduct and insolent and rude towards the MPs, to whom he absolutely has no right. So, Mrs. Zorana Mihajlovic, the SRS is the opposition party, the strongest opposition party and there are no touch points, thank God, with neither party in parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10438	Thank you, colleague Radeta. I believe that I did not hurt the member you pointed to, Article 107, because I did not notice that in this context, Minister Zorana Mihajlovic was offended. She, as far as I understand it, here's the minister, talking about arguments when it comes to legal proposals, which we're talking about today, and in no way did she want, I believe, to be offensively expressed and to put a sign of equality between all political parties. I mean opposition political parties. Do you want the National Assembly in voting day to plead? No, I don't. I thank you. Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10439	I'm really sorry that I just saw the arguments match. I just noticed that the arguments of DS and the SRS are consistent, regarding professional managers and nothing else. Are you the same or not? That's what you know best. But I only realized, once again, arguments that are identical. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10440	Thank you. (Miss Radeta: Replica. We can't, no, no, we have to, we're moving on. No, I don't. You, you pointed to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and the minister spoke, as a representative of the Proposer. But she didn't take offense, she just explained and confirmed what I was talking about. [[You can't do that, I want a replica.]] So, fellow Radeta, I am at this moment replicating No, wait, we can't play, are you going to Rules of Procedure or replica? [[I want a replica of what she told me.]] I can give the replica to my colleague Belačić at this point, because she had a direct address. I'll give you a replica, and that closes the circle of replicas. [[Verica Radeta: No, I want a replica of the minister's presentation.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10441	So this closing of replica circles and this way is inappropriate and you know the attitude of the SRS as far as it's concerned. Madam Minister is not listening. If what she said earlier is true, then she does not listen to the MPs. Our argument and DS arguments are not the same. She said herself DS which, of course, I don't want to cause a replica of DS, especially not on behalf of the minister, so she said herself that DS scares citizens I don't know what. Ambassador Aleksandra Belacic stressed in her presentation, we do not want to scare the citizens, we are just drawing attention to the bad bill. Indeed, please, colleague Milicevic, that what I have explained to Mrs. Minister is not at the heart of what counterpart Aleksandra Belacic has the obligation and the name of the parliamentary group to answer to Mrs. Minister's little broader explanation and answers to her questions and her remarks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10442	Radeta colleagues, there were neither objections nor questions, were answers to questions asked. That's why we keep working. The word has a folk MP, Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10443	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, co-workers from the ministries, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this set of laws that we are considering today, I think it represents a set of quality laws that were previously well prepared and come out on the agenda. Of course, I do not dispute the opinions of other MPs who claim that there are many shortcomings and that these laws are not good. But my point of view, in fact, the view of the SPS is that these laws regulate important areas and that it is important that we take a step forward with an attempt to improve the functioning of certain areas in our lives and the work of our citizens. That's the basic thing. I always said that one law cannot achieve some great quality and some ideals in the field of legislation or legislation, but it is important to edit those areas. It is important that after some time we conduct an analysis and make corrections in what did not turn out to be good. For these reasons, I want to say a few words affirmatively from that point of view about what is on the agenda today, and above all, I think it is very important that we put on the agenda the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Goods and that it is important to arrange important things about this matter. Because when certain accidents happen, or when certain things happen that are life-threatening and health and the environment, then we are not worth thinking about. Of course, this law on housing and maintenance of buildings that seem to have caused the most controversy, I do not dispute that there are certain shortcomings, but the question is whether we want to highlight it, and I want to stress one other thing that in this area we are still trying to introduce more order than it has ever been. For now, that's enough, but here, it's gonna be a while, so we can make things right. When it comes to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Community Works, we consider this extremely important for the functioning of every local self-government, whether it's a small municipality or it's a big city. Communal activities are of general interest and concern every citizen, every institution, every legal person. The users of municipal services are all or most citizens, i.e. the inhabitants of this country and the quality of municipal services largely depends on the quality of life of our citizens. In addition, it can be said that the quality of municipal services should be seen as a measure of the standard of one society reached, and on the other hand the price of municipal services, as a measure of the standards of individuals. The area of municipal activity is based on the Constitution and regulation of some other laws, and based on which local self-government regulates this important issue in its space. This bill provides, we said, a more precise definition of certain municipal services, which is aimed at strengthening the municipal systems and in order to improve functionality and build the proper infrastructure needed for this area. It is very important that the law enables different ownership models and introduces competition in this area, also enables partner relations, but the introduction of a private sector in this area should lead to redistribution of budgets and budget commitments in local self-governments. On the other hand, when we talk about a private sector entering this area more and more, maybe the future is that only rare competences in the area of municipal activity will be as a public interest in the hands of the state, or in the hands of local self-government, and that most of the activity will be in the private sector. We need to ensure that on sound economic principles, the private sector can participate in this area. So far or in the past, we have had the practice of paying equally for municipal services regardless of the quality and the quantity of service rendered and that everyone pays equally, which cannot survive. On the other hand, we've had before, but local self-government at this point, when there will be more and more confidence in the private sector, they must provide and control the provision of municipal services, and it is commendable that through the continued declaration of the citizens, quality assessment will be carried out. In the end, I would just say that there must be some creativity and a different approach in this activity and that public service providers should, and the law should allow them to do so, they can also deal with other activities, in terms of expanding their performance, for example. recycling or processing of municipal waste, so green waste can be composted on markets, and then public garages or green markets that are covered can have solar panels, etc. All of these are some ideas that we, as socialists, are thinking about. It may be necessary to find modules to make these services better, and service providers would rely more on their earnings and less on budget receipts from local self-government. We will vote for this set of laws in general.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10444	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10445	The Honorable Chairman, you have injured Article 27, under which you are obliged to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure. In fact, you said earlier that a colleague of Radeta and I are entitled to a replica. Radeta's colleague has used her right and you have closed this circle of replicas, or a circle of replicas on the route of Mrs Radeta and the minister, and my replica refers to something else, and thus you had no right to take away my possibility of replicas just because Mrs Radeta used her replica. I wanted to tell Mrs. Minister that I live in a apartment building of 78 apartments and that I'm troubled by problems, as tenants, who are not in this law. We all have trouble getting the hooligans into the building, stealing from the basement, stealing from the attic, destroying our property. The president, or the building manager, can't solve this problem...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10446	Please explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10447	I've explained what the breach of the Rules of Procedure is, and I want you to make a statement about that injury. Since you're not interrupting me, why shouldn't I continue?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10448	You can't respond to the Minister's case based on a breach of the Rules of Procedure and enter a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10449	You can see I can.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10450	You've indicated an injury. I mean, you can, but I can't let you do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10451	You don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10452	Fellow Members of Belačić, Article 103, you may point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure immediately following the injury done. Article 104 on the application of the rights laid down in Articles 1 and 2 of this Article shall be decided by the President of the National Assembly, in this particular case by the Chairman, and that is me. You didn't understand me very well. I didn't say you had a basis for both you and your colleague, Radeta, for replication. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? Thank you. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10453	Thank you. This is really the second time... (Natasa Jovanovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. I got my word. You can call back later. This is really the second time you've tried to set us up with this provision of buying out state housing. You can work as hard as you want to explain to us that these apartments are intended for wounded and killed police officers, and what else I think is embarrassing that you're trying to do, because in these members that the SNS now under public pressure, they don't mention the wounded or the dead cops, but that's why they mention elected and placed faces, several times in all the members when they're talking about those who have the right to buy those apartments. While allowing your elected and appointed persons to buy apartments under conditions that are unimaginable to citizens, at the same time, whether you want to or not, thousands of citizens, which you still call for unknown reasons protected by the tenants, will be forced into the street. Do you know, Mrs. Mihajlovic, that in certain cases, these leases will exceed the total incomes they have in their household? What are you going to do with pensioners who don't have 20,000 or 25,000 dinars to pay rent for an apartment where they don't live by their choice, but because they got the apartment, as well as others who got the apartments? What happens in cases where they don't have two tenants, because you predicted in the contract that in those cases the contract would be terminated? What are these people gonna do? I'm not asking you on purpose. I'm asking you to honestly answer me what will happen to pensioners living in these apartments and who don't have 20,000 dinars a month to pay rents in apartments they live in, not by choice, but because they had no right to buy apartments in which they live? They got apartments like all other citizens of the Republic of Serbia, then Yugoslavia, their age. Their only, as you call it, happiness or convenience, I don't know what happiness you see in 1992, is that they had no right to buy apartments, and all other citizens of Serbia had the right to buy apartments. 60/1MG/IĆ19. 05 - 20.05 So they found themselves in these apartments. Not because they love, not because they chose and not because they enjoy living in other people's property, they found themselves in those apartments because they had no right, which all the other citizens in Serbia had to buy out the apartments they got. And now we call them, and you in the law still call them protected tenants, and you correct the injustice of 70 years ago by injustice today. You do them another injustice by coming directly out of the one-sided request of the owner of the dwellings to meet for the rent to increase. You don't mind when they pay property taxes. You don't mind when they pay taxes for those apartments. So you have to bear in mind that these people will get the right to buy apartments that are the most impoverished of what they've been living in. First, it will be significantly smaller apartments, given that 30 squares is obtained for one person, 15 squares for each of the next household members. We propose, by amendment, that it be more. Secondly, these will be apartments located in peripheral urban municipalities, as Mr Vesic said at numerous working group meetings they participated in. And it's going to be apartments that don't match the apartments they've been living in in any way. And the Restitution Act, Mrs. Mihajlovic, says it does not have to return at all cost to the previous owner of the property. There are ways in which these things can be solved differently, as was the case in all cases of restitution, when restitution would cause an even greater injustice, and here is exactly the case. Many expenses will be incurred by citizens, Mrs. Mihajlovic, unplanned, new from this bill, and I fear that is all they will get. We'll try to correct this bill with amendments, but we're afraid he's so wrongly set that we won't be able to do it that way. Do I have more time or not?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10454	The whole thing is, before you start talking, five minutes and 26 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10455	Then I'd like to say one more thing. I think many residents' congregations, which have so far worked well, will have to hire a professional manager, because trust me, no president of the tenant's congregation will want to accept these enormous obligations for which some will be paid. I believe that, say, in my building the president of the tenant assembly won't want to do the job for which someone else will be paid. All you're going to achieve is that, even in those buildings where the tenants' congregations functioned nicely, you're now going to cause professional managers to be introduced, because they simply won't want people to do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10456	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10457	Let me explain a few things because you either don't understand or you just don't say the right information. Let's start with how you say we wanted to "plant" certain members of the law into the housing law. No matter how many times I've explained it, I'll explain it one more time. These members of 152, 153 and 154 shall be attached to the Regulation on the resolution of the housing needs of the selected, appointed, staffed with the users of the funds in the state property. Now, that regulation was brought by you in 2001/2002. A year. Then you confirmed it and allowed the purchase of apartments to take place by 2007. So, all those who could, they did it. Most of the time, most of all, closer to your authority. Then you suddenly banned it until 2009, when there was one number of apartments left that couldn't be bought out without being your political or political party members. But right away, I said that what we were bound to do, what we wanted to take advantage of that regulation, was really, and it's not any hypocrisy, it was really about people who lost their lives or were wounded in wars, which I said there was documentation and papers that we could deliver to you. Just so there's no confusion, there's nothing the SNS or the Government of the Republic of Serbia put in something, so she wanted to plant it. No, you did it. While you were in power, you brought that regulation to do so. All your members of the political parties bought those apartments. Our interest was to help those people who lost their lives, not to do what you said. But to avoid confusion, at the same time we removed those members, just so they wouldn't be in a situation where maybe someone, like you, understood it in some other way. The amendment has been filed by the SNS and these members are not an integral part of this law. When you talk about protected tenants, first all the countries around us have solved the problems that are and lasts for many years. The only thing we're not is that even though there was a law that said first to settle it by 2000, and then if you really cared so much about taking care of protected tenants, as you now say, then you've had so many chances, since 2000, and then you're going to solve it. You've never dared to talk and decide. Secondly, no one says these people will be displaced, I don't know where, outside of Belgrade. I don't really know if it is or what Mr. Vesic is talking to protected tenants, I tell you what the obligations of local self-government are, or in this case, the City of Belgrade that will have to make a plan in the next 10 years to find a way to frame these people. If you think that someone today who got to use an apartment where they didn't own it, many, many years ago and lives in the center, I keep mentioning that Terrace, Prince Michael, doesn't matter and uses an apartment where we have two protected tenants, in a 170-square apartment, where almost all these years almost doesn't pay the rent, because it's very low, that it's right there to get an apartment that will then buy by the rules that are after 1992, I really don't know who would agree. On the other hand, it is very important to correct the injustice that existed and if all the countries around us do so, I see no reason why Serbia should not do so? We have to do it one day, in the best possible way. No one says these people are guilty. No one says the people who own the apartments are guilty of practically not being in that apartment where the owners are. This was a sustainable solution for both sides. I think if they need any details about the data and the rents, etc. We're ready to put them on, but that was the most sustainable solution to express myself like that. About the warden, I really don't want to talk about it anymore. Professional managers know what their job is. They're not here for a moment. I'm going to repeat that they're ordering anyone but to help keep the buildings going. I don't agree with you at all if you say that all those tenants' congregations and all those apartment buildings that worked beautifully as you say, have worked well so far, that now suddenly they'll have a problem, no, on the contrary, wonderful, excellent, those who functioned well will continue to function well. Unfortunately, we have a large number of housing facilities where that's not the case, where there are serious problems, and now we're going to kind of unify this whole way of managing the buildings, and that was the essence of that part called professional managers that can, and they don't have to be in the housing units themselves. I believe that it can only arrange our lives in buildings, not create additional problems for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10458	Thank you. Right on the line, the folk emissary of Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10459	It is obvious that whenever you do not have an answer, you begin to speak, and what we have done. When we talk about what we did, here I'll tell you, we said ourselves, in 2009, you banned the officials, appointed and appointed persons from buying apartments, and in 2016 you allow the appointed and appointed persons to buy out state apartments. When you talk about what we did with protected tenants, we didn't throw them out on the street until 2012, and in 2016 you threw them out on the street. If you think, that's how you set me up, if you think that this two-member household that I'm guessing is made up of pensioners, because in such apartments mostly pensioners, it can pay at once 18,000 dinars a month for the rent of that apartment, so until you solve the housing issue for the next 10 years and give them an apartment of 40 square meters in Krnjaca, then I don't know what country you think you live in. It's a much more serious problem then that you don't have a different answer than what we've been doing. Speaking of what we've been doing and what you've done, here's a wonderful example. We have banned the purchase of government housing to officials, and you are now allowing it, and for the second time you are trying to make it to the Assembly. The first time Tomislav Nikolic refused to sign the law, the second time you're doing it here. No wounded or dead cops are mentioned in these members. On the contrary, they mention the appointed, elected and appointed persons who use apartments on time when they are in office, and you tried to assign apartments to them so that they can buy them out for 20 years without interest, while those people who are not in these other people's apartments are not in their own choice are expelled into the street.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10460	The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10461	I don't know why it upsets you that I'm just making a parallel out of what you've been doing, and what is the government of the Republic of Serbia doing? It would only explain to Serbian citizens that some things were not good and that you were talking about buying apartments, especially between 2007 and 2009. Yeah, you're right, in 2009, you canceled when all of your members bought apartments and that's why prices. This law, precisely because we thought it was not precise enough, precisely because of such comments as you just said, we removed those three members from the law. I'm very sorry you're commenting on something like that. Yes, our intentions were people employed by the Ministry of the Interior, so their families where they either lost their lives or were wounded. No matter how many times you tell me, I'll answer you like this, because the intention was honorable, and what you're doing is in favor of what I said before. It is nice, of course, that you have an attitude, but, on the other hand, your attitude is not only wrong, but you really deceive the public and talk again about a law that is not signed by Tomislav Nikolic. Let me at least ask you to take a look. It doesn't matter, the sky and the country, this law DIPOS, the villas and houses and the law that we have here today, and those three members that you mention so deeply, because you have no other comment on the House Act, because you have no other criticism of the House Act, because all ten or all of you have been, since Tadic was president of the state, so you were able to solve and edit this area. You didn't do it, and now you're saying it without a single argument. What is important to the citizens of Serbia, no one will stay on the street. The protected tenants will not remain on the street, assuming that they are pensioners who cannot pay the rent, in this law very clearly stands and writes subsidising the rent for those who cannot pay for it, means, if there is such a possibility that you have now set an example for protected tenants. Don't scare the citizens. First, no one will be left without a roof, no one will be on the street, no professional managers will spy on anyone, no one will suggest, no professional managers will define what needs to be done in the building and no matter how many times you report and say, what the law says is very clear, no matter how hard you try to see something that absolutely does not exist. That's it. (Alexandra Jerkov: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10462	Comrade Jerkov, you have no right to a replica. Only your authorised representative can do it. There's no mention of a name at any time. The word has a colleague, Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10463	The dichotomy of that kind of thing that you've been doing, and what we haven't done, is allowed to you, and I think it's time to be told that you're in power. You're an opposition, that for five years no one's stopped you from abolishing whatever regulations you want, to abolish whatever laws you want, to fix whatever you want in whatever norms you want. To talk about the fact that in 2007, DS, in any way, had an impact on DIPOS or on the purchase of apartments, is like saying for ten years that I formed your House Act, because DS was also an opposition back then, in 2004, 2005 and 2006. Only in 2007, after July, after the collapse of the SRS and DSS coalition. So, ten years from now it's true that I've made all the laws you're making, it's so true that, at a time when we're the opposition, we're exposed equally to mocking the rule of law and then and now, we can influence what the government wants. I don't know if we miss you or if you're complaining that you're in power, but you're in power, and it carries responsibility. What we do not understand in any way, and this misunderstanding is banal, but deep, is that you have an opposition before you that is not the first time that there is an opposition. It's your first time in power. What is sad truth for all of Serbia, not for us as an opposition or for you as a government, is that you repeat our mistakes. It's always someone else's fault. You keep talking about your intentions of honor, but, well, you wanted to, so it didn't work out. Don't, there's no reason.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10464	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10465	What I want to do with my every call is just to make sure that it doesn't forget, because I don't think it should be forgotten. As for the five years of government and the laws we could change, give us a way to change them. For example, we passed a law that allowed us to have all the electronic building permits today, and in your time it was seven, eight, nine years. What should we not say, why not remind the citizens of Serbia just not to forget? Not to forget also that the issue of protected residents, which you are now talking about with so much understanding, which is fine, I understand that, but you had time. One more thing to remind me, I remember, and you seem to have forgotten, since 2004 Boris Tadic was president of the Republic of Serbia. He was president of the DS. He may not be in the DS right now, but in the meantime, you were the government. Don't tell us about you being an opposition, because you weren't an opposition. You had all the instruments in this country to arrange housing policy, to have no more problems with protected tenants and apartment owners. You've had the opportunity to explore all the privatisations. You had the opportunity to create an investment environment. You had so many options and you didn't do it. What I may be able to complain about is a shame that we're fixing it now that you haven't done, and we've continued to make something even better. This is how we have to solve problems that you haven't solved for ten years not everywhere, but in certain parts of that. (Gordana Comić: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10466	Comrade Komic, you do not have the right to reply. There was nothing offensive. The word is from the People's Messenger Vesna Rakonjac. Here you go. VESNA RAKONJAC: The Honorable Chairman, Honored Deputy Prime Minister, I will talk today about the Airport Management Act, but through a little specific approach. I can't help but return for a moment for a previous discussion. By 2012, some parties were in power, and since 2012, we have taken responsibility for the state. I'd call it that. As it seemed by 2012, and as after 2012, here I will try to describe the case of the Rosulje Airport near Kruševec. Rosulje Airport was founded in 1995 and documentation was collected by 1999. Nothing was done between 1999 and 2005. Since 2006, a land expropriation plan has been developed. It has been established that there are 90 private owners and no expropriations have been made by 2012. What's strange is, during all that time, Rosulja Airport had its director, he had a board of directors, he had several employees, and everyone was getting paid from the municipality's budget, and now the city. From 2012 to 2013, when the SNS took responsibility for its city, an expropriation was carried out on 99% of the land and a revitalized approach, i.e. a 350-metre road with lighting to the airport space, and some documents that had become obsolete had to be repaired and done because in the Construction Act were exceeded. We can see what it looks like when an irresponsible government builds in a local self-government, and what a responsible government does. The airport "Rosulje" is very important both in tourist terms, because we know that there is a tourist center in Kopalnik near Kruševec. It is also very important because of the "Mijalo Live" Aero Club, which will be replaced, and this is another example of how local self-government, when the SNS took over in Krusevec, has very easily solved the long-standing dispute that the city until then had with this airport, so that they will have safe working conditions after the opening of the Rosulje Airport and are very important for our municipality and for the region. That's how SNS does it. What I can also say is that this story about the Rosulje Airport will circle both rail transport and airport and road transport and that Rasinski County will take on the look it had in a previous period when the town of Kruševac was on the list of the most successful cities in Serbia. As DS ruled the city, it is another indicator that in 2008, it completely ceased to exist in railway transport in Krusevec. By 2005 there was also transportation from Stalac to Kruševec, but from 30km to an hour, and from 2005 to 2008 only freighters from 10km to an hour. In 2014, railway transport was renovated and the railway line is now operating from Jagodina to Kraljev, and it is projected on a section from Stalac to Kruševac 60 kilometers per hour, and from Kruševac to Kralje 100 kilometers per hour. Therefore, we take big steps forward and will not be stopped by hypocritical remarks. One more thing, since I come not only from Kruševac, but from Rasin County, so I am simply directed to other municipalities because of the work I do, I can tell you that the municipality of Trstenik, the JKP "Počekovina" is very problematic, which came from the water line "Počekovina" in 2005, more specifically on 13 July 2005, to provide a child at 28 years of age as director. It's not right, pal, to talk about people who aren't here, so they can't answer. Generally, this public utility has made huge debts to the Public Health Institute for water sampling. When we went to visit the facility with the sanitary inspector, we found a rusty lock on the gate, there was no plumber, the chlorine was thrown into the tank with one shovel, so obvious and, of course, the people who supplied such water failed to pay for services to such a public utility that was completely like the daughter of the company JKP “Comstant” Tristenik. Because, you have to admit, it is completely illogical that one such small municipality, which has its own public utility called ‘Comstant’, organizes another public utility company ‘Počevina’ for seven rural settlements, and is registered for the collection, treatment and distribution of water, editing and maintenance of parks of green and recreational areas, transportation and disposal of garbage. Imagine that. It's a little absurd for me. In order to eventually experience the destiny of the company not having sufficient technical and personnel equipment to carry out its municipal activity. However, the garbage collection was used by a 10m-cubic “Scania”, which was used by the JKP “Počevina”, but it is the basic means of the JKP “Comstant”. Well, it's that truck that's lost from "Comstan," so we from SNS have to deal with that job, too, lost and found. That's what fate looks like to us. But since we took responsibility for the state of Serbia in 2012, we will lead it forward and for the sake of our citizens we want to do it in an honest and fair way. Thank you. Thank you. The word is by MP Ana Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10468	Dear Madam Minister and Proposer's representatives, the proposed text of the airport management law in our opinion is full of indeterminateness and indifference and extremely strange solutions. Here, for example, in Article 1(1). The draft law states that, I quote - this law regulates the conditions and methods of the operation of airport management, the development of airport infrastructure, the provision of airport services for air traffic needs, as well as the construction within and around the airport complex safety belt, as well as certain issues specific to the granting of airport concessions. I believe that the intention of adopting this law is precisely to give the airports, first of all, to the Airport’s “Nikola Tesla” to the concession, because it is already stated in paragraph 2 of this article, that the issues which are not specifically governed by this law, which relate to the conditions and manner of operation of the airport operator, the operation of the airport complex and infrastructure, the concession procedure for the airport and the establishment of public interest, are accordingly applicable to the relevant provisions of the law governing air traffic, and the law governing the public private partnership and concessions and the law governing the expropriation and the law governing the planning and construction. My question – why are only certain questions regulated by this law? It doesn't make sense that one lex specialis doesn't regulate all the questions and that by general provision it points to the application of other laws. This suggests that the promoter or did not have enough time to prepare the law or predict abuses. Members of 10th and 9th regulate the issue of building conditions within and in the safety belt around the airport complex. My question is – what will the state do with the facilities that were illegally built on land on which the expansion of "Nikola Tesla" airport is foreseen? The illegally erected objects are either destroyed or mutilated and do not need special protection. Article 15. – financing of the construction of the airport complex and airport infrastructure, in point 2) is foreseen to provide funds for the financing of construction, construction, adaptation and reconstruction of the airport complex and airport infrastructure from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, AP or local self-government units, depending on whose jurisdiction the airport is. The question – does this open up the possibility that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will again grant subsidies, or that budgets will be spent in the construction of the airport in order to be awarded in a concession later on? In the same article, point 4 provides that funding for the construction of an airport complex and infrastructure can also be made from donations and gifts. In addition to the transparency of this kind of funding, it is also a question of political and economic impact and the possibility of corruption, because investment in airports and infrastructure is not limited, especially in the case of airports owned by the Republic or the AP. One more remark. The law does not clearly define ways and criteria, i.e. criteria for the allocation of incentive funds for airports, but is a legal provision that the government is closer to regulating the methods and criteria, which can again be non-transparent. Members of 16th and 17th were also regulated a national programme for the development of airports to provide conditions for long-term development and improvement of airports in the Republic of Serbia. So, we can see on the basis of which reference in the business business is chosen for such a responsible business by the Business Society "Serbian airport d.o.o." Belgrade. According to publicly available data on the APR site, it is a company founded by the Republic of Serbia with a founding role of 150,000 dinars and established in February of this year, so no financial data are available on the site regarding its business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10469	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Predrag Jelenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10470	Mr. Chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, the distinguished minister with associates, a few words about the Law on Community Works. It is a very important law that is before us today, for the reason that communal activity, as you yourself said, and we all know it, is very important for local self-government in Serbia. Simply, it is life and every citizen in every municipality and in the cities of Serbia knows how important this activity is for the local self-government itself. A significant number of municipalities and cities, as you mentioned, are in some problems with their municipal enterprises. I come from Nis, and you are, among other things, well aware of our communal systems, probably because something was inherited from earlier years, but in any case, there is a shift. So, what I can point out, it is the JKP "Mediana" from Nis, which has managed to realise a cross-border co-operation project with the Bulgarian municipality of Pernik since a few years ago. The C4 field has been rehabilitated and recultivated at the city dump, a project documentation process has been launched for the construction of a wastewater treatment plant, it has been adapted and released into the work of the Waste Selection Centre, it has been adapted and reassessed in the Fortress and city gardens have been opened, new vehicles have been purchased, new equipment and more than 50 containers have been installed for the selection of glass packaging. When we talk about this law, what is important, we need to pay attention to that the experience of states in our environment tells us that by losing control of these very facilities of municipal infrastructure and the uncontrolled entry of private capital, it is necessary to direct local self-government in Serbia through one transformation policy in this area, and it is through this law. What is important, we need to do an analysis of each public utility, what their status is and with, of course, complete infrastructure, i.e. the basic assets they have, i.e. equipment to manage that system. After this analysis, it is necessary and necessary to provide for measures for the consolidation of these companies which would allow business on a sustainable basis. It is precisely this law that will help a lot of local self-government to bring this entire municipal system into order and, of course, put it under control, as I said at the outset, so that we don't have experience from the environment, i.e. Bulgaria and Romania above all. The bill will incentivise public-community companies, companies and entrepreneurs performing municipal activity, increasing the interest of private companies, or private investors to invest in this particular activity and ultimately users of services, i.e. citizens and economic operators who can expect and gradually strengthen the responsibilities of those workers. What is good is that the bill introduces one novelty into this area, which is a statement of exactly the user of municipal services on the quality of service provision, which will serve as the main criterion for meeting the obligations of this contract, i.e. future contracts on entrusted municipal activity, but also as a reason for the termination of the contract. A few words on the proposal for a law on the transport of dangerous goods. As we can see, the government has referred to the draft new law in the assembly procedure, for two reasons -- the need to comply with secondary sources of EU law in this area, above all with the September 2008 directive and, of course, by modelling one of the laws that has been drawn up and which is compared with the European Commission's conventions. First of all, the European Agreement on international road transport of dangerous goods, the Convention on international rail transport, the Regulation on international rail transport of dangerous goods and the European Agreement on the International Transport of Dangerous Freight on Internal Waterways is referred to. Accurate requirements relating above all to this law have also been laid down, which are to participants in transport, transport, transport permits, categories of dangers and security, the conduct of state authorities and organisations, training of transport participants, specific provisions for road, rail and water transport, road control and monitoring. This proposal provides for criminal provisions for commercial offences for a domestic or foreign legal person, transport participants, as well as legal persons of a packaging producer, and for a responsible person and in them and especially for entrepreneurs carrying dangerous goods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10471	Thank you. You're not finished? Ask for the word again. The word has a National MP, Predrag Jelenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10472	In the transitional and final provisions, under which conditions vehicles for the transport of dangerous goods which do not comply with those international standards can also be used in domestic transport, with absolute security. After the entry into force of this law, as it stands, 31 sublaws will be passed, if I understand correctly, those are various regulations and regulations. Of course, the deadline foreseen to achieve full compliance with this regulation is 31.12.2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10473	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10474	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, proposing representatives, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today we have a set of eight very important laws ahead of us. I must conclude that we have had very little time to prepare, which can only conclude that the government wants to make it impossible for us to submit a more detailed analysis and the possibility to submit a number of amendments, which, first of all, could be the MPs of the opposition, to contribute to the improvement of these draft laws. The government's conduct shows disrespect for the National Assembly and for the MPs, and on the other hand, irresponsibility towards the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Since it is impossible to discuss all points of the agenda, I will concentrate on two draft laws. The first is the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Community Works. The bill, according to the reasons for the adoption, is in line with Euro-Union standards, and in view of Serbia's faster accession to the EU. We Serbian radicals wonder when you will realize that they are one hand patting you on the shoulder, and the other are stabbing you in the back, and you will give up the devastating path to the EU, for which the highest price is paid by citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In particular, I will rely on Article 2 paragraph 3 point 6a) and point 6a) which is added in this proposal for a law on municipal activities and which explains what a funeral activity is and what it is dealing with. In terms of adoption, you say that the same conditions are provided for the performance of communal activities of every public service provider, whether it comes from a public or private sector. In a conversation with the owners of funeral shops in the municipality from which I come, which is Smederevska Palanka, they are very concerned about their future. I believe that in other municipalities it is because I have heard the opinion of the Association of Businessmen dealing with this activity, and the reasons for their concern are contained primarily in Article 7. The draft law, where Article 8 of the existing law is added to Article 8a concerning the fulfilment of conditions for communal activity. The bill does not specify exactly what the conditions are, which is, for example, the number of vehicles, equipment, the number of employees, so I would ask the minister to earn these citizens who deal with this more precisely to give us information. Article 3 of the same Article 8a refers to a commission to determine whether the conditions laid down in Article 1 have been met for the performance of municipal activities and the minister will, on the basis of the Commission's assessment, make a decision on the refusal or authorisation to carry out this action. What concerns the businessmen, in addition to these conditions mentioned, is this republican tax that they will have to pay from now on. So far, they've been paying a local self-government tax and now they're wondering how much that tax is going to be and they're afraid it's going to be a significantly higher figure. The second bill is a bill on housing and building maintenance. The draft law on housing and maintenance of buildings that you have proposed defines the development of housing, maintenance and building management, and all the burden of execution is transferred to citizens who are also limited to the right to decide their property and property within the community in which they live. This proposal does not solve essentially decades of housing problems in Serbia relating to tenants who do not have a lease agreement, refugees and internally displaced persons who do not have a regulated housing issue, homeless people and so on. Military homeless people and their problems, forced evictions, a large number of overpopulated apartments, etc. Instead of dealing with these problems, you are making the lives of our citizens more difficult. The proposal to introduce a professional manager is another unnecessary financial impose on tenants and restricts the right to property, and it is indicative that this kind of governance applies only to residential buildings. This suggests that the promoter believes that property rights holders are irresponsible and incompetent, so they need to be detailed on how to manage their own property. It's like some kind of tutor, unlike the owners of other immovableities. The professional manager lists tenants, collects maintenance money, convinces them that something has to be fixed, there's still a lot of jurisdiction, but also one that can sue the one who doesn't pay for his service. Then we have a proposal for mandatory security of the building, which applies only to the damage of residential buildings. If we accept this, then it should mean that the damage can occur from all the objects that should also be secured. This draft only deepens problems and introduces new expenditures to the population. If your goal is to achieve better housing conditions by introducing additional charges, you achieve a completely opposite effect. I cannot be provided with funds where they are not there, because most Serbian citizens are in a very bad financial situation, but your goal is to charge the register by force, and that seems to be the only and main role of the professional manager. We Serbian radicals, we believe that this law will in practice produce exactly the opposite of what you are trying to illustrate to us today. Who are the people whose lives are actually going to have a fundamental impact on this law? They are poor residents in poorly maintained buildings, without congregations, tenants with a desire to counter their modest needs in difficult market conditions somehow resolve so-called market conditions. housing issues, workers who still live in former social housing, unemployed real estate heirs, pensioners with accumulated debt for directors and taxes, working families, etc. The Serbian Radical Party will try to correct the amendments all gaps and shortcomings both in these and other draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10475	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10476	As for the Law on Community Works and undertakers, and the question of who will now prescribe it, all as many cars, etc., that kind of sublegal act, all funeralers' associations together with the Ministry will arrange to make such sublegal acts. I mean, after this law and a lot of discussions that we've just had with them, we have, not only consent, in common about how important I am to this sublegal act, and how pleased they are with this law, and we have it written by them. You said one thing I simply have to deny, which is the House Law restricts the right of citizens and will only apply to, as you said, the poor, the citizens, etc. First of all, it does not restrict anyone's right, secondly, to this law affects all citizens, because we are all really tenants, but in the sense that it helps to really arrange management, first of all buildings. Just so much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10477	Thank you. The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10478	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister of Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will talk about the proposal for a law on the transport of dangerous goods. When the law enters into force, it will regulate the conditions for carrying out internal and international transport of dangerous goods in road, rail and inland water transport, packaging requirements, mobile equipment, or means of transport for the transport of dangerous goods, conditions for the appointment of bodies which control packaging and vehicles for transport, conditions and obligations which will have to be met by participants in the transport of dangerous goods, the competent authorities and other organisations in the transport of dangerous goods. We can see from the bill that the removal of the Department of Transport of Dangerous Freight has been proposed. The rights and obligations of the Administration, employees, equipment and means of work will be assumed by the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, which will form a specific sector that will be responsible for dangerous goods issues. This will improve the attitude of the state administration towards economic actors, as the emphasis will be on doing professional work, more rational management of human resources, engagement in a better way in order to work more efficiently. The effect of the application of this law would be to create new operators on the market and market competition, which would now help to abolish this administration and transfer its specific competences to the designated bodies. Furthermore, the Law on the transport of dangerous goods provides for compulsory insurance. By adopting this law, it would be abolished. Mandatory insurance shall be governed by the Mandatory Insurance Act when there is a ratified People's Agreement which provides for such an obligation. The legislator did not provide for the need to introduce this type of insurance through the Mandatory Insurance Act, so it would therefore be unwarranted to introduce this type of insurance, i.e. compulsory insurance through the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Freight, to which it is not subject to regulation. On the other hand, the introduction of compulsory insurance is not possible without prior international harmonisation of the liability limit. This type of cost does not have carriers in all EU countries, so this is another expedient situation for our businessmen who will not have to take insurance policies at very high rates. The issue of certification by appointed bodies is also very important. It is prescribed that the minister will determine the way and procedure of issuing a vehicle authorisation certificate. In this way, all designated bodies will act equally to raise the level of legal certainty. In addition, the minister will prescribe the handling of objections to the work of the designated bodies and their decisions as a liability insurance for the damage that the parties may suffer through the work of the appointed bodies. Also, this part of the proposal offers a solution to address the shortcomings that have been demonstrated by the application of the Transport of Dangerous Load Act. It is a problem in which those road transporters who use vehicles that have received ADR certification certificates under the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Load but are not in agreement with the ADR agreement. In this regard, a solution is proposed to continue using vehicles, while respecting international commitments on the other hand, and this is another of the positive aspects of this bill that I would point out. So, in addition to agreeing with the latest changes in this area due to confirmation of international agreements and due to the process of compliance with EU rights, this bill also offers many concrete solutions to existing problems, as well as ways to address the shortcomings observed during the application of the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Load, which burdened participants in the transport of dangerous goods. The application of this law will also enable a better position and a simpler presence on the market of operators and a healthier market competition by protecting domestic economy to the greatest extent possible. Like other laws that exist in the area of transport, this law will certainly affect the reduction of the grey economy. Because the Serbian government continues with a strong pace of working on laws that improve the quality of life of Serbian citizens but also because of the positive effects of concrete legislation expected, in the voting day I will support this proposal as well as other draft laws that have come from the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport, Infrastructure. I would briefly refer to the proposal for a law on airport management. I must remind myself that thanks to the regular Kargo line Nis – Istanbul can be translated annually up to four thousand tonnes of goods, which will make the airport in Nis a regional kargo centre, which Nis did not have, and Serbian goods will be able to be exported. Modernization of the airport and extension of the runway are planned. So, further work is being done to support the development of the economy. We are aware that without the support of the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister and the Resort Ministry of Such success, there would be no such success. At this point, I would like to thank you for your commitment and my fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliaments will call on them to support this set of bill that came from the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Traffic and Infrastructure, which I will do in the day of the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10479	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Ivana Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10480	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Madam Minister, honourable representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have today a set of good bill proposals, and I will pay special attention to the law relating to an area that has not been regulated by legislation, which is the Airport Management Act. The adoption of this law will finally complete the area, i.e. the picture of air traffic. We have good laws that and how they apply, such as the Air Traffic Act, which regulate questions, let's say, types of airports, their purpose and the like, but not an area that specifically speaks of airport management as an activity. Neither airport management, as an activity, but no other airport-related activity has been identified as an activity of general interest in order to apply the Law on Public-private Partnership and concessions. The adoption of the proposed law and the proposed amendments and additions to the laws, which are now on the agenda, will open doors to new investments, airports will be able to manage public enterprises, capital companies and entrepreneurs. I believe that it is necessary to enable all equal market participants who meet certain conditions to participate in the liberalised market and competitiveness, so let them be selected best. By reading the draft laws, it is clear that the aim of such laws is to develop and modernise airports, especially those who possess certain certificates, and do not have enough resources to further develop, but through the possibility of closing concession contracts, develops and improves existing infrastructure, leading to an increase in passenger numbers, thus leading to an increase in the number of regular transport lines, which would lead to an improvement in the situation in the economy and economy. It is evident that the government's goal, i.e. the primary task of Serbia's progress in each sphere, is to improve the standard of living for all citizens. The work of the Government in the area of air traffic is data presented in the opening presentation by the Minister, which is among other things the number of passengers at the "Nikola Tesla" airport was about two million, and today the number is twice as high, and I expect as many as five million by the end of the year. When it comes to the area of traffic, it can be freely said that any kind of traffic, starting with air, rail, road, rising with a trend of increasing the number of passengers, with increasing freight transport, is the same as the expansion of the network. I'm going to say some more record data from "Nikola Tesla" airport, except for those that have been reported by the number of passengers. Here's the information that more than 90% of flights started without delay. That's the data from November this year, so the average delay was reduced from eight minutes to less than six minutes. The following information, works on reconstruction and adaptation of terminals one at the “Nikola Tesla” Airport and the latest data from yesterday that the work on strengthening the interstellar structure is beginning, all indicating that it should not stand, because market needs are changing, capacity increases and we need to create conditions that we can justify the growing demands that are being put before us. I would like to point out that when the government programme is presented, the prime minister said that "Nikola Tesla" Airport with record results and that concessions of the governance model will provide new investments of at least 700m euros, which will provide additional inflows to the Republic of Serbia's budget, but this model will also be applied to more than 30 small airports in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. When we say small, we don't mean surface small, but by the number of passengers and that we will also allow such airports to line regular passenger transport. I would like to say, primarily because of the citizens of Serbia, that during yesterday's debate, one of the opposition MPs expressed views, that is, in the way they interpret the laws, so they ask the question - how is the bill being prepared, are all relevant institutions involved in the preparation of the proposal and whether public debates are being held? I will say specifically that for this Airport Management Act, due to the urgency of its adoption, no public debate was held, but that a working group was formed which includes, in my opinion, and that relevant institutions, first of all, the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, the Directorate of the Civil Society of the Republic of Serbia, the "Nikola Tesla" Airport, Belgrade, "Er Serbia", the Faculty of Transport, the control of Serbia-Montenegro's flight. These are institutions that very well examine the market, which have data on the situation on the ground. I believe that by this composition of the task force, this is a very good bill. Finally, I believe that the set of laws that we are discussing today, after adoption, will give way to improve the quality of life of Serbian citizens and I express full support for the proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10481	The word has a folk MP, Dusica Stojkovic. He's not here. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10482	Thank you, Chairman. I have to admit, since we've heard amazing things today from various parliamentary groups, there are even some that are as right-defined, but in their exhibitions as if they're pushing for administrative socialism. I'm just sometimes shocked by their views, especially that fear of privatisation or even better than professionalization, and for example, they swear to Russia. If we are to be realistic, I think it is one of the MPs, I am glad that it was mentioned from opposition lines, for example, right in Russia you have a concession, and even a good part of the private airport "Domodedov" in Moscow, one of the largest airports. "Star allianance" and "One World" I think they're in some kind of operation, so I don't understand why anyone's afraid of it. As for concessions, if we're already talking about China, which has a socialist system, you have a lot of concessions in China, given to private companies to work, I don't know why anyone's afraid that someone at our airport is going to get the possibility of a concession. I guess that's positive. We need a better airport. I must admit that it is of paramount importance for us to maybe build another terminal, since we are becoming a very important airport and that almost all countries in the region are coming to Belgrade and traveling from Belgrade. Since I was recently in Beijing, or the airport, I apologize, they certainly expressed that wish, especially now that visas are lifted, which is how I welcome, that we have a direct line to Belgrade – Beijing. That would be really fantastic and great and then we'd be the country from whose airport you're going to Moscow, St. Petersburg, Beijing and New York. I don't think anyone has that. So in the three most important countries of the world you have a direct line, which is something that is truly fantastic and great success. If someone doesn't like it, if someone might like to return JAT or return the kind of airport we once had, well, I'm just left with regret to realize that it's not very smart. Anyone who doesn't like "Er Serbia", who is constantly bothered by these companies, don't fly "Er Serbia", take another plane or walk, after all, because you don't like it. The whole world's coming here, flying our planes, and only some people here, nasty, don't like it. I don't understand it, but what to do. We've heard a lot of things here. Why isn't the state investing in some failed companies? We've heard incredible demands that the state invests in a tractor factory. And when you ask them where this country is going to sell that tractor, where it could have fallen from this point on, destroyed factories, such as Rakovica and IMT, so that they can become competitive today with "Jondira" or "Her Holland" or how do I know, they have no idea, but it's important because it suits some people in Serbia who continue to live in that period of self-government socialism and says – something that the state doesn't finance anywhere. Otherwise, I am a full supporter of private property and I think that, except for certain strategic branches, where the state should retain majority ownership, but I am always a supporter of a public-private partnership, because I think a privateer manages far better than the state and more responsibly, and you can see that by Er Serbia, after all. He manages far more responsibly and certainly provides much better services. I don't understand that fear, it's like someone's wishing Cardellus would come back. That's what we're hearing here today. 1 As for the law of the dwelling, I do not yet understand, and why the sermons. Well, that's positive. I claim otherwise when you look at home advice, I understand, of course, these in smaller buildings. You know, when you're living in a solitary and you see what home advice is like, it comes to you to grab your head. You can't solve any problems. It's not often that the tenants themselves are alone about who's going to be president of the house council, because everyone finds a little job with someone from the utility company and makes their own private deals, and the building suffers. I live in a 22-story solitary. It's for God to save. Sometimes elevators don't work at all. We have a situation where the elevator doesn't work for a year and they can't figure out who's gonna fix the elevator. I'm sorry, now that you're making someone, if you can't make a deal, then a professional manager comes by and you see how someone's gonna get to work. We have, say, a terrible problem, all the soloists have a problem with the plot in front of the solitary, so that means the exit, it's just amazing, whoever I've called to renovate, or to fix it, no one is in charge. You don't know whose jurisdiction it is. When you call these from the city, they say - no, we have nothing to do with it. You're calling from the community, and they have nothing to do with it. Then the home council says, "We don't have the resources." Then you've got holes in front of the door, and nobody's fixing it, so it's standing, and the kids come out with their legs broken, and they fall into the holes. You know, when some professional management comes along and how it's gonna work out, it's gonna fix it. So all the tenants will have a normal way out of the building. So, on this point, I'm an absolute supporter of these laws. These are good laws. Extraordinary good laws. Let's finally break that barrier once, let's not think about everything being managed by the state and that public-private partnership is something that is quite desirable, and I absolutely stand up for it. I just have a question for the Ministry, since I've been getting questions from people who are tenants and they've been trying for years to get their rights to get to the apartment, since they've been paying all these years, or what they're actually paying the rent, are they going to get their status solved? That's all I have to ask since they asked us a question here, and I have to admit I'm not competent to answer that question. I'd like the Ministry's own people to tell us more about it. As far as the law's set is concerned. I have to admit that this is really, really good and certainly, so full of heart, I will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10483	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Srdjan Nogo.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10484	The Honorable Chairman, Article 106. – The speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. I was really trying to see in these laws that we have on the agenda today, where IMT, IMR, John Dir and the problems of producing agricultural machinery in Serbia. But I couldn't tell what law applied to what a respected colleague before me was doing. I have to admit that I'm really surprised and shocked, given that I've known a colleague from college for a very long time, I really expected a far more serious argument than the one he made.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10485	Wait for my colleague, Djukanovic. Mr Djukanovic certainly did not violate the Rules of Procedure, especially with Article 106. He was always on the subject, and John Dire, IMT and IMR took as a metaphor for the laws under discussion. I guess he has a right to do that. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10486	Thank you, Chairman. Article 103, 104 and 107. Especially about pointing to a breach of the Rules of Procedure and, of course, insulting dignity, because I always point out that when you try to present something as a violation of the Rules of Procedure, you must not violate the dignity of all of us MPs, and especially the public, and that you deceive. What's done now is a complete deception. And not to mention someone appreciates whether or not someone's making a serious argument. But anyway, I wasn't talking today about the airport going to privatize, I was talking about your head of the Parliament Group of Honored Fellows. That's what he made up, anyway... I'm just sorry, that's why he invented something that doesn't stand, because it's all about the concession here. Thank you. (Srjan Nogo: I got a warning about this. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10487	Comrade Djukanovic, you are now entering the line. The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10488	Just two clarifications. This land that you mentioned, for regular use, by a member of the 53rd law where it writes – the jurisdiction of professional managers stands among other things and that care for the maintenance of land used for the regular use of the building. So that's the land in front of the building or the solitary you mentioned. As for those who are unable to pay their dues, this law also provides for housing support, since it is certain that such cases will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10489	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Jahja Fehratovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10490	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is a respected minister with associates, laws that are ahead of us regulate extremely important areas of everyday life for Serbian citizens, including the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Community Works. The proposed solutions contribute to the management of chaos in this area in almost all our local self-government, and I would say Sandzak municipalities are in the most drastic problem. This problem has been escalating since the 1990s, and has further escalated in the previous period because local authorities have done everything to satisfy their personal and party interests to draw financing from these companies and undetectedly employ their members, thus destroying the few infrastructures that these companies owned. In such chaos, workers do not get regular hard-earned salaries, they do not have the basic conditions to carry out difficult jobs leading to strikes, which is why citizens suffer again. In a number of such strikes, the freshest one from 2015 was when citizens of Tutin were exposed to an ecological disaster for three months until garbage was taken out. Local authorities fire those workers and hire private companies for waste disposal services, and now the citizens of Tutina are more expensive to pay for the disposal of garbage, the emmunication administration from the budget is paying the private company back. So, citizens pay double, and the garbage still doesn't come out regularly because the whole town only owns one truck for that kind of work. The irregularity of such services is also in Sjenica. The workers of the utility companies in Novi Pazar are very often hit by the boastful directors, even to the extent that they have been insulted as mentally retarded, for example the recent case with the recent director, Mr. Škrelj, as Mr. Minister Ljajic's staff. On the target of such directors is modest City Greenery, and unfortunately cemeteries, while stealing fuel from gas stations within the company are a constant phenomenon. Or the director of the official vehicle should go on vacation as the current director of the company Emin Omerovic did this summer, also when Minister Ljajic did. It is therefore important for the ministry to provide for mechanisms for the protection of workers, the property of local and municipal enterprises and to strengthen the control of the provision of services to citizens by these companies. A very important part of the amendments to the law concerns the arrangement of cemeteries, their property and the availability of the same one, which says that local self-government cannot trust the work of editing and maintaining cemeteries that are in the possession of churches and religious communities without their consent. However, has the law predicted what will happen if local self-government kidnaps cemeteries to religious communities, such as cemeteries in Novi Pazar, where there are two Muslim cemeteries centuries old that have always been owned by the Islamic community. However, the local self-government has self-initiatedly alienated the mesarium and is illegally available to the Islamic community. That is why this provision is important, and we support it in our heart, as it would be important to solve the decades-old problem, the Muslim cemetery in Belgrade, because over 100,000 residents of this city of Muslim religion are in great trouble because of the absence of their cemetery. One of the amendments to this law also applies to public urban, suburban transport. Unfortunately, this area is also devastated. The government and the ministry must make more efforts to develop local transport companies in poor environments, as their absence threatens the survival of people in rural areas, such as Sjenica, where there has been no public transport for years towards remote cave villages. This is also an appeal to you Minister, your Ministry and the Government of Serbia to help establish such lines, which would make life easier, and thus the survival of people in this area. It is also important to propose a provision on public parking, however, we have local self-government such as Novi Pazar, which did not provide their citizens with a minimum number of parking spaces, and they persist in charging taxis, so unorthodox and driving cars by spider to fill their budgets. It is also important to propose a provision on public parking, however, we have local self-government, such as Novi Pazar, which did not provide its citizens with a minimum number of parking spaces, and they insist on charging taxis, and not rarely driving cars by spiders to fill their budgets. Is the law set out that local self-government must first provide parking services to its citizens and only then carry out restrictive measures? Finally, a very important provision concerns street maintenance hygiene. This is also an area where a large number of local self-governments are malfeasanced and there are local self-governments like Novi Pazar, which only before the election spreads a part of the city clean. Because of all this I will support these provisions of the law, like everyone else, because they are trying to solve these problems concerning the life of an ordinary citizen of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10491	Thank you. The word is given by MP Branimir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10492	Thank you. I will talk about the House and Building Maintenance Act, i.e. I will talk about the problems facing Serbian citizens, but about real problems in real life, not to collect some cheap political points or speak populistly against the local community from which I come. I believe that some of the essential characteristics of this law and that cities and municipalities will register housing units and that the population of residents will receive the property of legal persons. This way we'll know exactly who's responsible for certain procedures. That, in my opinion, is one big part of this law. It is precisely the lack of responsibility in previous years, and I can say for the last decades and decades that certain buildings are in a catastrophic state. We can ask a lot of questions and who is responsible for the fact that the facades are falling off and who is responsible because the roofs of buildings are not being repaired in time, why in many multi-story elevators do not work, which is why the halls in individual buildings have not been painted for years or why even every other mailbox in buildings are not functional. Of course, at this point in the situation, it is difficult to answer these questions, and it is precisely difficult to answer for the reason that no one accepts responsibility for these problems. Current building maintenance still works, but obviously the biggest pain for now is investment maintenance. I expect the Household and Building Maintenance Act to have a positive impact on the tenants to solve many issues together and systematically. I'll just list some of the problems. For example, in many buildings the roof leaks, and this particular problem is obviously just about those who are directly threatened. Or in many buildings, many do not care about the technical regularity of elevators. Some buildings are not connected to the city's heat, so let's say they're forced to heat on solid fuel, and no one cares about the safety and use of chimneys. In some buildings, there are substations of remote heating, and few people think about what kind of hararium can occur if maintenance is not adequate. It's obvious that no one in this situation is taking any real, concrete responsibility right now, and if by any chance an accident happened, then everyone would suffer. These are some inherited problems. The residents' congregations in this situation, in this form, do not have a mechanism to force the irresponsible neighbor to participate in solving significant issues. And so far, the tenants have had the opportunity to hire the building manager, and there is a small number of those who have taken advantage of it in the right way. The building manager is essentially the same as the professional president of the household. The law will now increase powers and determine the legal minimum that residents must meet. The law on housing and maintenance of buildings clearly prescribes a way of deciding in housing units and regulates the situation when the owner of the apartment is unknown or when it is inaccessible. I'll also touch on the energy efficiency issues. I think this law will help them get rid of each other in a positive way. Data show that only a dozen built housing facilities in Serbia are in line with the current energy efficiency standards. Since housing units will thus gain legal status, they will have the opportunity to compete and participate in energy recovery projects, and this could be an additional source of funding for these problems as well. The Household and Building Maintenance Act brings many newspapers, and I expect many positive effects, i.e. to introduce building maintenance areas in order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10493	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10494	Thank you. The chairman, a respected minister with associates, respected representatives of the foreign ministry, respected fellow MPs, would be pointless if he did not support this set of laws, given that he was finally trying to introduce legal certainty where there was no legal certainty for a long time and where there was no legal protection for a long time. Of course, the greatest attention, regardless of the other laws deserve the same attention, draws public attention to the Law on the maintenance of residential buildings. In my discussion, I will focus on this law and what is the mandated representative of the SPS parliamentary group, our distinguished counterpart Stefana Miladanovic, the SPS parliamentary group will support both this and the rest of the law, i.e. the remaining laws from the proposed set in the voting day. However, Madam Minister, I would like to point out to you in a very well-intentioned way, as I have always done in earlier times, to certain provisions of the law that I consider to be in collegiate with some other laws and to try together to avoid any irregularities in practical application, i.e. problems in practical application of the law. Given that every general standard applies to all cases, or all situations, so also the normisation of Article 5 would have to be for all situations, and unfortunately not. Why am I pointing to this? In Article 5(2), it is said that the acquisition of property rights on a special part of the building, in addition to that, also acquires the right of property on land on which the building was built and on land for regular use of the building. If it's a general norm, it's not applicable. Why isn't it applicable? Because it can only apply to situations where we have a conversion on that catastrian plot where the right to use is transformed into property rights or where it's property rights. This isn't all of them. We have still in the catastrus situations where the cadastrian parcels are still with the right to use, and the buildings are located on these same catastrian plots. The owners of the apartments as special parts of the building cannot acquire the special part and the right to be co-owned on a catastrian plot. I can get right through co-operation. As far as land rights are concerned, let's get this straight. The Minister is also well-known to my esteemed colleague, Aleksandra, that the right to land for the regular use of the facility is, among other things, defined by the provisions of the Law on Planning and Construction in Article 70, but also by the provisions of the Law on Fundamentals of Property and Legal Relations. If that's the case, and it is, then we're in the next situation. The right of land for the regular use of the facility is a kind of burden. If the building was built on other people's land and if it is in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Planning and Construction, we even had a standard on which land rights for the regular use of the facility are related to a specific area. It was a minimum area for the formation of a building plot. What does that mean? This means that it's land beneath the facility or around an object that serves as a regular use. It is a burden, and if it is on land owned by the Republic of Serbia, especially if under the provisions of the Law on Public Property from the Republic of Serbia is transferred to local self-government, then property rights cannot be acquired, then we stick to the right to use. Why? Because we have a problem in the catastrus of all Serbia, because the cadastrian problem is that rights of use still remain on the catastrian plots over 90% of the land, perhaps more. Therefore, this norm is not sure that as a general norm it can pass in practical terms without being in collegiate with the provisions of the Law on Fundamentals of Property and Legal Relations and possibly with the provisions of the Law on Planning and Construction. What else instigates one dilemma? In Article 9, it is normised that if a person is given the right to build on a special part of the building, the building, etc., is required within five years, if he first builds, and if that five-year period is exceeded, to restitution, or vomit into the former state, in fact to destroy everything he has built. It is not disputed that such a kind of sanctions exist, and I honestly support it, not as a lawyer, but as a citizen, because I believe that everyone must bear a special kind of responsibility for non-compliance with the obligations provided for in the law. There's really nothing to argue about. But what if there are objective circumstances that have prevented the completion of the construction? What if the degree of construction, the esteemed colleague of Alexander, is over 90%? Under the provisions of the Law on Fundamentals of Property-Legal Relations, he has already acquired property. Whether it is in that situation, I will not say it because I would be wrong to say whether it is allowed, it is, but whether rationally and economically it is the same person who built the building in that degree of construction – to return to zero, or to the initial state, and to say that he was punished by that fact, that he did not honor the five-year term and came into the situation that he could not go on or, God forbid he died before the deadline of five years and the legal followers did not want to finish. Therefore, this provision as a general norm would also have to be a little more precise, that it refers to situations that would be applicable to any citizen, no matter what the situation is in the case of his obligation. The next thing I want to point out as a dilemma, a distinguished colleague of Alexander and how well she knows that the provisions of the Law on the Fundamentals of Property and Legal Relations are common property prescribed as indivisible property. What does that mean? This means that each type of available means the consent of all commoners. So none of the commoners, whether there are three or 50 of them, can be excluded in any case from giving consent to the availability. This shall be indicated by the provision of Article 19. The Law on Fundamentals of Property-Legal Relations, which says: "On the common parts of the building and the devices in the building owners of special parts of the building have the right to common indivisible property". To be honest, I'm not sure that in all the provisions of the law, if followed from the beginning to the end, this imperative norm is represented. I'm afraid he's not in every situation and I'm afraid he's leaving room for a legal institute like this to be broken somewhere. In addition, I will again address you, Aleksandra, you know that the provisions of the Law on Fundamentals of Property-Legal Relations provide for something and Article 15 of Paragraph 4 which says: "To take jobs that cross the framework of regular management", and it further states - alienation of things, and that the whole thing, the change of purpose of things, the issue of things, "needs the consent of all co-owners", regardless of their co-ownerships' interests. Why am I saying this? I'm saying because, by carefully reading the bill's proposal, I found certain parts of the provisions that you've normized where, I think, it's deviating from this mandatory, imperative regulation, that it's mandatory that all the commoners agree if it's a common indivisible thing, which they are in principle. As far as certain procedural solutions are concerned, they are generally good, it would only suit me as a lawyer if that three-day deadline was defined as a deadline for a scoreboard or anywhere, as a notice to the owner of a special part of the building, that he could participate in the debate at a session of the residential community, that the deadline is still eight days. Why? In court practice, it is said this way – if Neđo Jovanovic cannot otherwise be notified to approach the court, then he is informed by pointing out that invitation to him on the advertising board and that call on the advertising board stands for eight days. And it's a perfectly reasonable and reasonable deadline, and there's no reason for us to be apart from that deadline. Besides, the absence of three times someone who owns a special part of the building loses the possibility that his voice is a quorum, I'm not sure it's a good solution. What is certainly good, dear minister, is good that you have proposed a law that finally introduces the principle of responsibility – responsibility for compensation for damages, in principle objective responsibility and which has always been clouded somewhere and liability for default. And that's something that no one can do, and I'm going to apologize to everyone for speaking like this without supporting it. If there is damage to the facade, don't give God that facade as it happened in certain situations to hurt a citizen, we used to wander about responsibility, from local self-government, city administration, apartment owners, etc. Indeed, this time we have what is normized in the way it should be normized and is in line with the provisions of the Law on Bond Relations. There's a lot more, but, in order not to waste my time with my distinguished colleague, Snezana Paunovic, I'm going to cut short and just look back at two more details, of course, affirming something that is very positive in this law. First, you kept one principle that existed before. In fact, living communities are legal faces. As legal persons, they must also manifest their actions as legal persons. What does that mean? That means they have to file a final account. The reminders, from 2009 to 2008 and until 2013 in Belgrade, had just been submitted by residential buildings, which had been treated by legal entities at the time, to the final account. Later the balance sheet, the balance of success or whatever, but in any case something that meant responsibility when it comes to financial availability was regulated by law. You have maximum and strong support for keeping this principle and for making it very clear and precise in law. What, in some ways, causes certain sensitivity, certain sensitivity of certain groups, I mean the citizens of Serbia, when it comes to protected tenants or the owners of the apartments, we have heard a handful of criticism or expressions of suspicions, fears, skeptics, etc., etc. I am going to be personal now, a little bit of being a lawyer from what is my obligation as a member of the SPS and a representative of my parliamentary group, which is next – that you have managed to balance that sensitivity somewhere. Because, on the one hand, the owners of the apartments suffered a burden, a burden of a protected tenant. On the other hand, a protected tenant is not guilty of being a protected tenant. Someone else put him in that position and gave him that ID. And in no case can you seek responsibility or guilt on either side. The state imposed one such concept, or legislator at the time, or someone who normed then valid regulations and brought both of them into an awkward situation and a delicate position. It seems to me that we need to rise above it, and the solutions that are in this law are defined as good solutions. Finally, on behalf of the SPS Parliamentary Group, without usurping the right of our authorised representative, and as deputy head of the SPS Group, I categorically confirm that we will gladly support the full set of laws that you have proposed. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10495	According to the Rules of Procedure, the word has a People's MP, Srdjan Nogo.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10496	Article 107, dignity of the National Assembly. My dear colleague who spoke before me, I think he made probably one lapus when he said no one in their right mind can vote for this law. I really think that in his presentation, which was otherwise correct, one such formulation should not have been stolen, since a good part of the MPs here, all MPs of the opposition have declared that they will be against this law and make their arguments, whatever they may be. I think we have the right to make arguments about why we're against this law. Such a qualification is not like one fellow who, I repeat, has had a correct exposure, although I would have to ask myself how a party that advocates social justice can support such imposing new obligations on citizens. (Nedjo Jovanovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10497	You have no right to a replica, sir. (Nedjo Jovanovic: Rules of Procedure. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, Neđo Jovanovic has the word, but just wait until I speak to my colleague Srdjan about article 107. My colleague Nedjo has expressed his position and he is not the one who can judge whether someone is normal or not. But there's something I have to tell you, my colleague, which is that usually the violation of the Rules of Procedure is used for a kind of political struggle in order for none of the participants to be discredited in any way and the discussions that have been questioned. I don't see in any part that colleague Nejo Jovanovic thought of you, mentioned you, and I don't understand why you reacted. It's his attitude, his political attitude, and he didn't name anyone special. According to the Rules of Procedure, colleague Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10498	I thank you, Chairman. I really don't understand why something that is extremely honest and well-intentioned, which shows... (President: Member, colleague Jovanovic. ) Article 104, I said five minutes ago that I was calling on Article 104, but never mind, it doesn't matter. (President: That was five minutes ago, now counts these 18 seconds. I can say that in the end, the chairman. The Rules of Procedure don't say I have to say it at first, but come on. Again, I really don't understand why politics is politicized by something that is most well-intentioned and sincerest when the law is commented. Which is why political points are being collected on something they shouldn't be gathered on, compared to everything that's being said here, instead of getting close to each other. Instead of looking for common opportunities and improving the quality of the law, we here through some kind of theater show are burning up what's good, what's not, and especially I'm already accepting it as some kind of insult that I said what I didn't say. I expect even an apology. I even said I was sorry, and I apologized to everyone who would misread me, and I just said that no one in their right mind would accept one principle that I pointed out, that really the principle is what it should be, a normal principle. Now it's kind of depraved and depraved, I don't understand why. If it is possible to collect political points, I don't mind, let the citizens assess whether they can and should collect political points in this way. We in the SPS parliamentary group will certainly never collect them in this way and in this way, but we will therefore point out always as I have now done, as did my distinguished colleague Stefana Miladinović, as my distinguished colleague Snezana Paunović, so justified and professionally, as much as we know and know it. What we don't know and don't know won't even stand out. I think that's extremely correct and fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10499	I don't think my colleague Srdjan Nogo broke the Rules of Procedure either, or I didn't break my word. A colleague of Nogo's a new MP, have a little tolerance for them, because it's not easy to be an MP. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10500	Thank you, Your Honor. Madam Ministers with Associates, I will, regardless of what is the most discussion today somehow, seem to me, or at least one majority, to be related to the Airport Management Act, but look back on this law that I find very important and very high-quality. What's the big deal? True, the discussions were different and the attitudes differed, it's perfectly natural when the tide talks about the law, but what I want to say on my behalf, and also on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, is that I really find this law extremely important. For what reason? It is not correct, and in the end it is not necessary to create the wrong picture in the public about whether the concession is a sale, because it is not. Why it's important and why the Airport Act is important, I'll try to explain, looking back at us for a while. You yourself, Madam Minister, stressed that the number of passengers at Nikola Tesla airport existed before 2012. True, visa liberalisation has contributed to an increase in the number of passengers, but this meant that the capacity of Nikola Tesla airport must be adapted to the fact that in 2014 we ended up with four million passengers, and this year, according to statistics, it will be over five million passengers. That really requires an expansion of capacity. It is a special pleasure for me that my colleague Zoran Ilic is here because we simply tried at one point and managed to reach and do more from the existing capacities of "Nikola Tesla" airport and that is the terminal two, which, after reconstruction, looks perfect. Terminal reconstruction in progress is one. Why is the concession important? Let's not go back to what was going on. Because at this rate the number of passengers is increasing, very quickly we will come to the stage that there is absolutely a terminal of three that, however harmless it seems to us, is one big investment. There was a grudge today and on the subject that you might not be building a hotel, one of your colleagues said. Yeah, why not? The long-term development plan for "Nikola Tesla" airport was primarily aimed at the existence of a hotel as part of the "Nikola Tesla" airport complex. Why? Because the airport "Nikola Tesla" is taking large steps towards a key airport which not only in the region, but free to say throughout this part of Europe will represent somewhere a hub of transition flights first of all, which means that you are as a good host in the obligation to provide for all passengers in those times that they can be long, ultimately due to the unforeseen circumstances that are happening, accommodation. So the hotel, if we look back at the big airports of the world and Europe, I think 80% of the airport has them. Yeah, among other things, that's why we need a concession. But it is most needed primarily because of the small airports because I believe that I am the airport "Nikola Tesla", which was doing business in absolute plus and that I would not now be dealing with the data that is publicly available, statistics are on the site and at any time everyone can have it. I will return to the small airports, so I will mention "Poniks", as one specific, looking back at my colleague Zoran Ilic, because other than Constantin the Great, whose capacity and support we have at one point are also terribly important airports, important for the region where they are located. If that were the case, the SPS parliamentary group received confirmation because about ten days ago we were simply visiting the local self-government in Užica, where the mayor and the entire management of the town of Užica stressed how important the Ponikve airport is to them. What is already there and these are huge investments, even you, Madam Minister, have said that investments are not small when it comes to all these small airports, but are really extremely important above all as airports for the transport of goods. In this sense, the great success of this government, which we are inclined to criticise in the fact that a flight-land path of more than 1,800 meters is restored at the Ponikva airport itself, if I am not mistaken, or about 1,800 metres. Other objections related to land expropriation can be duly justified by another fact, which is a fact that can be less known, but I will tell it because of the public, it is the fact that so far, due to an unregulated system around Serbia's airports itself, it has been very often happening in that section in the airport protection belt that some facilities simply interfere with the work itself appear. (President: Bring the end, colleague Paunovic. ) On the warning of the chairman, I will interrupt my presentation, noting that the SPS will certainly support the set of laws, but that is what colleagues have already said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10501	Thank you. I asked my colleague Ned Jovanovic just minutes ago to be a little more tolerant of his colleague Srdjan Nog. I'd be unfair if I wasn't like that too, so I'm withdrawing the warning I've told Mr. Nog since December 12th of this year, because I know that even when you deserve a warning, you're doing it incessantly. We're moving on. The word is made by MP Dragan Vesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10502	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Madam Minister, we've heard different stories, different discussions. My discussion will be a little different. I'd like to ask you a few questions that I've also asked on the board, which I haven't received answers for, and these answers to the citizens of the city of the Kings are of interest to you. Let's assume a soliter with 50 apartments, suppose a soliter that doesn't have a congregation of tenants, suppose a soliter who won't be able to choose its manager. Under the bill, he will be forced to be appointed by the city administration. The city administration will be the one to determine the amount of personal income and it is quite clear that this personal income that he will have to receive will be provided by the congregation of the tenants, or tenants of that building. Tell me, how do you think you provide funds from people who don't have money for it? You just said that big investments, the type of fixation and improvement of energy efficiency will be funds in the City Administration that will be provided for such cases. So if you followed what I said, I, by a little bit more than you see it's luck given or accident, I see here perpetrators who will have to take money from people seniors in buildings who won't have money for it. Are you gonna tell me, please, am I right or am I wrong? I only have to comment once more on Morava airport in the Boats. You just spoke to Madam Minister about the differences between you and the Democratic Party. Here's one thing that's absolutely identical, the airport in Lađevec is being opened by Mr. Boris Tadic, and the airport in Brodjevac opened by you. I'm asking you when will the airport start working? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10503	Mr. Vesovic, if I hadn't withdrawn my colleague's notice before your discussion, I don't know what would have happened now. The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10504	Here, like this. As for the first question regarding the emergency manager or example of that soloist that you said or any other housing unit, if the tenants cannot agree, I hope that it will be as small as possible and that at some point we will come into a situation that the tenants will always agree, so we have either a member who will run the building or someone who will be hired as a professional manager. But if that's not the case, and often it's not, and it's not even really a question anymore if the buildings with a large number of apartments or a smaller one are, believe me, we have a problem for the tenants to agree who will practically take care of building management. In that case, local self-government, as you yourself said the city or municipalities, names a forced manager who, of course, is taken from a list owned by the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, who has a license and the local self-government itself suggests, specifically limits the amount of compensation, in contrast to professional managers who can choose the building itself, or the housing unit itself where they will have a contractual relationship with the tenants and see how much compensation, will determine the market above all. But first, since it is an emergency compensation, local self-government will determine itself, and that forced manager will be until the moment the tenants agree whether they have a member or choose a professional manager. As for the Ships Airport, some have discussed and opened them, the Ships Airport is currently in the process of agreement, not agreeing or concluding a contract between the Ministry of Defence and the Business Society of Serbia. I didn't open it, I was at the airport three times, and each time I announced that we would carry out the procedure clearly and make a mixed airport, which would not only be military, but civil and military. So, when the contract is to be completed, of course, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, at the moment, we have an operator, and at that moment the "shipmen" airport can work. Dynamically, I really hope it's just a matter of implementing and completing the administration's negotiations, it can't be long, and I hope within a few months that we can really talk about opening up. So, I didn't open the airport every time I announced I'm still announcing that we're going to realize it and that we're finally going to have that airport really in that capacity that we're supposed to have. That's it. (Dragan Vesovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10505	You have no right to a colleague named Vesic. She explained it to you perfectly. The word is from Ambassador Marko Parezenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10506	I thank the President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a few proposals for new laws and amendments to the law and I will talk today about the House Act, because I think it is a very important area for the everyday life of our citizens. Experience has shown that citizens address authorities with many issues and problems that are not well covered by current legislation. As the biggest problems, I would point out in the first place the great energy consumption because I believe that in the 21st century we cannot afford not to take care of energy efficiency. Another important thing that I'm going to point out is why it's important what this law is about, which is completely unclearly defined responsibilities and obligations, building maintenance mechanisms, and that leads somewhere directly to the collapse of a housing fund in the form of derelicted and abandoned buildings. It roses our cities and makes the environment in which we live dreary and unsightly. In the case of, from the city where I come from, we had in the center of Cačka a really broken building that was in a very bad shape and finally decided to separate the funds from the city's budget to take care of it and now it all looks much nicer, but still it's not the right solutions and I hope that this law will systematically deal with these problems. I think it is very positive that the law foresees a situation where residents do not respect the law in terms of forced management with limited duration, although I think that in practice we will not have too many such situations, but above all because that option exists and I believe that citizens will not allow it and that they will organise themselves how the law foresees it. I would also point out situations where in order to protect life and the health of citizens it is necessary to react urgently and in these situations local self-government assumes responsibility to perform certain works that lead to the situation that we do not have an empty walk in the application of the law. Finally, I would like to praise the provisions of this law that regulate the housing of persons who suffer domestic violence and partner violence, which is another step after the adoption of the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence as a alignment with the Istanbul Council of Europe Convention. I would also like to commend the proposal for a bill confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China, which concerns the visa waiver, and I think it is just a continuation of the country's growing relations with one great world power. Speaking of these external relations, I have to point out something that we have a chance to hear today and almost every day, no policy of Eurofanatism is being conducted in Serbia. It is the simplest nonsense, nonsense and a lie that day-to-day promotes, above all, Bosko Obradovic, and all because he can't stand the fact that as we open new chapters in Eurointegration, we have a parallel relationship with both the Russian Federation and that of the People's Republic of China. Bosko Obradovic is nervous because a few days ago our guest was Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov, that he announced at the time a close visit from Russian Federation Prime Minister Dimitri Medvedev, that only a few months ago he was visiting Serbia and the Prime Minister of the Republic of China after 32 years, and all these are facts that simply prove that all this story of some kind of Eurofanatism in Serbia is the most common lie. Dear Minister, in the voting day, I will support this set of proposed laws, because I believe that with consistent application it will affect the better life of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10507	Right on the line, MP Srdjan Nogo.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10508	I understand there's one big confusion in SNS policy. You're in favour of joining the EU, you're the last Eurofanatics in Europe. At the same time, you say that you are the greatest friends of the West and Western governments and people like Tony Blair and the Clinton family and all other European politicians, and on the other hand you are also opponents of the EU, you are also the biggest Eurosceptics, you are looking for alternative global models, you are the same international community that wants to bring down power. So it's really a very confusing condition. Whether there's more power in the SNS or not, I'm not getting into it. But there's one big problem here that no one can catch what SNS policy is. Are you to join the EU or not to join the EU? Are you willing to join the EU at any national price, because we have humiliations that some third-rate country like Croatia is throwing at us, and certainly has some support in the EU itself from some far more serious ones, and we still have to suffer it. I welcome the opening of geopolitical alternatives and, even more so, for your information, it was we who spoke in June of the month here at the National Assembly of Prime Minister Alexander Vukic who suggested that an agreement should be made with China. I'm glad he accepted our suggestions. I hope this is just the first step in that big package, that visa waiver. I hope a direct plane is realized. I hope that something that Mr. Viktor Orban has done will be realized, which is an economic citizenship that could enable us to pay off the IMF and restore one sovereignty, because it is also a European practice, so we can call on it, so I welcome that, and I call on Alexander Vukic to do so until the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10509	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10510	This will have to be brief, Mr. Chairman, given that I have no desire to meet someone's needs for attention. All we've heard is the sad consequence of obviously over-community between these Internet movements and other political factors that exist only on social networks. Absolutely nothing worth commenting on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10511	The word is made by the People's Messenger Ivan Kostic. He's not here. The word is made by the People's Messenger Miodrag Lint. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10512	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected Mrs. Mihajlovic, honored guests, today I will talk about a bill on housing and maintenance of buildings that represents one of the most important system laws in one society, because it regulates one of the deepest needs of a man, which is to provide a roof over his head. Also, the adoption of this law will be an important step towards adopting a housing development strategy next year. Since other colleagues and colleagues have talked about almost all aspects of this bill, I will limit myself to one target group, one group of Serbian citizens representing the biggest victims of wars in the former Yugoslavia, which is almost half a million expelled Serbs living in the Republic of Serbia. As is known, in Serbia, around 3,500 housing units were built for refugees and exiled persons, mostly by international organisations, and the Serbian government in the previous period. About 3,000 families were granted the right to buy out under the 2010 Refugees Act. However, that right did not get 530 families, the user so-called. The SIR programme, whose apartments were built by the Italian government. These 530 apartments are located in seven local self-governments, which are towns of Nis, Kragujevac, Kraljevo, Čačak, Pančevo, Valjevo and the municipalities of Stara Pazova. For many years, we have been trying to correct the great injustice and that these 530 families, 80% of which are refugee families, and 20% of the domestic population in vulnerable categories, can finally say that they have integrated into Serbian society. One of the key preconditions of integration is that man becomes the owner of that housing unit he lives in. It is known that in 2004, a Memorandum of Understanding was signed between the Government of Italy and the Government of Serbia, which made it clear that users of these apartments would receive the right to buy out when they moved in. However, during the move of these families to these apartments, during 2008, this memorandum of understanding was changed in a magical way, and these people were said not to have the right to ransom, but only to be in the status of the tenant, which caused and caused the full eight years of indignation of these families. Now we have one paradoxical situation that, say, in the town of Nis, we have what's called a so-called "Peace." The German government building, meaning apartments built by the German state, and there lives a man from a village in Kordun, Bania, Like, North Dalmatia, western Slavonia, or Bosnian Krajina, or the Federation of Bich, he has the right to buy that apartment, and besides that German building we have a building, conditionally said, of the Italian government, where another man from that same village lives and he has no right to buy that apartment. It's the same thing when you have two kids, so buy a kid a pair of shoes, and don't buy another kid a pair of shoes, or buy another kid a pair of shoes, or any other kid's shoes, or a piece of clothes, or anything else. In the previous period, we had several meetings at the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure. The first meeting was held on 15 April 2015 with Ms. Mihajlović and Mr. Vulin, Ms. Damnjanovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Construction, and was Mr. Stankovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs. We agreed that the time had come for this injustice to be corrected and I welcomed the sentence that Mrs. Mihajlovic and Mr. Vulin had said that they felt that the issue should finally be resolved and allowed these people to buy those 530 apartments. It is agreed to hold a second meeting inviting representatives of all seven local self-governments, and the meeting was held 14 days later, on April 29th 2015, where there were several mayors or deputy mayors or mayors of city municipal administrations. Mr. Vulin was present, and Mrs. Damnjanovic was present on behalf of the Ministry of Construction. There is also a finding that a working group is needed to prepare a solution to this problem in the coming period. A third meeting was held in September 2015, six months later. The meeting was attended by Mrs Damnjanovic, so for the third time, where we also discussed how technically to resolve the issue. Then there was a break of a year and the flames continued in October this year when the fourth meeting was held, where Mrs Brnanovic and Mrs or Miss Atanakovic were present, where we also discussed the subject and concluded that the only thing we can solve is by making one conclusion. The conclusion will be prepared by the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure. It is necessary to pass the Secretariat of Law, to come to the Government, to adopt the Government and the essence of that conclusion, to make it clear that 530 users of the SIR programme are subject to the Refugee Act, to apply these 3,000 families, to which the Law on Refugees applies, and to these 530 families. I expect in the next period that in a very reasonable time we will address this issue, that it will be concluded and that this issue will be corrected. I just want to say a few more things. Of these 3,000 families, we also have a problem that one part of those families can't buy those apartments, although the Refugees Act allows it. We have an example of 18 residents in Panchev, where the Memorandum of Understanding with the city of Panchevo and the German organisation of ASB allows it. However, a letter was sent to the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure. The answer was undetermined. People are bitter, because although I clearly allow them to buy these apartments, they unfortunately can't do it. We also have several cases in Alibunar municipalities, i.e. Vrsac, Gudurica village, Vlajkovac, where refugee families are denied the right to buy their housing units, although the Refugees Act allows them to. I would like to especially praise, as an example of good practice, the municipality of Novi Knezevac, the president of the municipality of Mr. Overic, and my fellow MP, Mr. Radovan Jančić, who helped 100 refugee families in the municipality of Novi Knezevac, in the villages of the Serb Krstur under the local and Banatski Arandelovo, get the right to buy out at reasonable prices, at the real prices that apply in these places. The previous DOS authorities unfortunately gave prices that were seven or eight times higher than the real prices in these villages and which apply to local citizens. The real price is around 1,000 euros, so citizens from these villages can't sell their much bigger houses for more than 1,000, 1,500 euros, and the previous government, I repeat, has set the price for the house to be worth 7,000 to 8,000 euros and must be bought at that price. Finally, I would also like to mention a major problem involving 57 families of which 51 are refugee and six domestic families, as regards housing managed by the state-run DIPOS firm. In fact, a few dozen families have been granted the right to buy these apartments, these are state-owned apartments, but 57 families do not have the right, I repeat 51 refugee families. These are apartments located in the street of Pera Todorovic 41 apartments, in the street of Kraljeljačka 12 apartments, the street of Brothers Grimm two apartments, Stevan Musića one apartment and the first Pruge one apartment. These apartments are wasteful, these apartments are in poor shape and I think it would be good for the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure to help solve this problem and get these 57 families to buy these apartments under favourable conditions. In the end, due to lack of time, I will finish my presentation, appeal to Mrs. Mihajlovic and the ministry to help solve all these problems that I have outlined in the short lines within a reasonable time frame. In the end, I want to say that in the voting day I will vote for both this law and the other laws of this set. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10513	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10514	Mr. Linta, thank you again for putting on this very important subject and talking about it. We have met several times and related to 530 users, but what is a problem several times we have talked about it, and regardless of all our good will to enable, therefore, to buy these apartments, the donor simply does not allow these apartments to be bought, but insists, and you said so yourself, that it should be, that we only have a lease. The donor is usually the Italian government, we contacted the Italian government several times, entered etc. In this regard, however, we have not encountered the possibility of these apartments being redeemed. What might be, perhaps, exists as a possibility we should talk about, and let's see how, is possibly housing support, so let's see another way to solve the 530 issue of users. As for Panchev, I really don't know about that memo, so here I was talking about, and we'll see, and we'll sit down and talk about it. And when we talk about DIPOS, I refer again to the Republic Property Directorate, and if we need some mediation, but together to sit on the subject of Panchev, let's say this is, we can always do it and hopefully, at some point, at least one part of what's been waiting so many years, try and solve it. That's all I can say right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10515	Thank you. The word is given by the MP Marija Janjušević. He's giving up. The word has been given by the messenger of the people, Tian the Davidite. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10516	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister with his associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, the Bill on Housing and Building Maintenance consists of three existing laws that have been integrated and promoted through this law, which is the Law on Housing, the Law on Building Maintenance and the Law on Social Housing. The aim of this law is to preserve and improve the housing fund, improve housing conditions and provide housing support to citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Some of the problems encountered by this law have been solved by poor conditions of citizens' housing, extremely high energy consumption in buildings, 60% of total energy consumption, drastically reducing the value of the housing fund, it was not clear who manages the buildings, who maintains them, who is responsible for the damage caused by the failure of buildings, unregulated conditions and the move-out process and the immigration from illegally built buildings located on other people's land. Unsustaining buildings is a problem that often leads to great damage and dangers to the lives and property of people. As a consequence of the non-maintainment and care of buildings and parts of buildings, the most common are faults and accidents in elevators, the fall of facades on public surfaces, passersbys and other property, roof leaks, electrical installations fires, and then a number of court proceedings are conducted between the owners of each other, as well as with third parties performing maintenance works. The depravity of the building housing fund is high and requires significant investment to lead to a satisfactory situation, i.e. to lead building maintenance to the level of ongoing regular maintenance. Major interventions on a large number of buildings need to be carried out, for which owners do not have enough resources. The new law provides the possibility for units of local self-government to allocate funds for such interventions that would represent a public interest in the building maintenance sphere, and a clear responsibility of the owner of special and independent parts of the building, i.e. the housing unit and the professional manager in respect of failure to fulfil the maintenance obligations, i.e. the occurrence of damage caused by the failure of the obligation. Energy consumption in Serbian buildings was on a steady rise during the last decade. There are about 85% of residential buildings in Serbia that have no thermal insulation whatsoever. This law provides for measures to improve the energy efficiency of the existing housing fund. The law also contains members who regulate cases of displaced persons living in non-standard settlements, in objects that are built contrary to the rules on the construction of buildings on land owned by another person. The bill also regulates the housing of victims of domestic violence or violence in partner relations, which points to the responsibility of the state in terms of supporting victims of violence, in the form of security of temporary accommodation, in order to protect victims and prevent possible recurrence of violence. By joining these three existing laws, by improving existing solutions and by giving new institutes that are moving forward with the current social and economic circumstances in which we live, we identify sustainable housing development as a public interest, which is the goal of passing such a law and expressing concern not only for today but also for future generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10517	The word has the People's MP Zoran Radojićic. He's not here. The word has the People's MP Marko Zeleg. Today I'd like to talk about the airport law. The earlier speakers presented some of the incorrect facts relating to this very law, and as regards the fact that the law was passed on to a shortcut, that the government had referred it to the Assembly unannouncedly, to open up an opportunity for some speculation such as those instructions. I must deny the MPs who spoke before me and say that the exhibition of the prime minister who was in early August of the month was just announced by the adoption of this law and that the prime minister pointed out that the aim of this law is just to establish a Serbian airline that will be a competitor in the market in this part of Europe. It's going to be a very important strategic air traffic center in this part of the world. The airport law provides for a possibility. Treatment of airports i.e. the management of airport operations as a matter of general interest. The law also stipulates that the airport is treated as an entity subject to the Law on Public Private Partnership or the Law on concessions. The law should be applied to all airports in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and the most important thing we can talk about today is the "Nikola Tesla" Airport. The 2013 "Nikola Tesla" airport, which, we say, experienced its Renaissance, at the moment when Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic established an agreement between "Er Serbia" and Etihad and from that moment on, we have dynamics and progress in the development of the airport itself and the number of passengers and goods currently operating through the "Nikola Tesla" airport. Belgrade airport. We are talking today about the number of passengers that has increased compared to the number of passengers from 2010 by 80%. We have an increase in the number and transport of goods, an increase in the amount of mail we transport through Belgrade airport compared to the previous year. In this year, Belgrade airport carried a total of 4,648,790 passengers, which is 3% higher than in the same period of the previous year. With this in mind, the need to pass this law is particularly important because, according to some projects for the development of "Nikola Tesla", some frameworks, which can receive an airport, over the course of one year, are some five million passengers. We are very close to that number and it is necessary that this law be passed precisely because this law allows concession investment at Belgrade airport and opens up the possibility of carrying out investments worth some billion euros, as reported in some reports, and plans to build a second runway at Belgrade airport i.e. "Nikola Tesla" airport: This investment would, of course, enable Serbian construction firms to engage, which is an additional benefit from the adoption of this law and application of concession laws at airports. At this point, I believe that all MPs, both SNS and coalition partners, should support this law because the benefits are seen in the very implementation of the contract between Etihad and Er Serbia in the fact that we have increased the number of passengers since the time the contract was signed, we have increased the number of employees working at the airport "Nikola Tesla". Also, the number of destinations trafficked by our air carrier and also by our fleet which at the moment of takeover i.e. The signing of the contract with Etihad was in a highly insecure position and condition. When you consider that at that moment we had a fleet that was the average age of 25. , By buying new Airbus 320 aircraft we rejuvenated the fleet and in fact brought into some enviable state our national airline. I have to give one piece of information that maybe the citizens didn't have a chance to know or have not had enough opportunity to be informed. A year after the signing of the contract, of seven planes, as many as worked within the fleet, then JAT, after a year four had to be spent on reasons that they were not safe for further transport and use for commercial purposes. I'd just like to point out another fact regarding the arrangements and the protection zone around the airport complex. The letter she discussed some time ago stated that it was possible to build objects within the zone of protection of the airport complex or not to legalise them and that the law was not defined. The airport law now defines the airport complex as a land intended for airport construction, the construction of airport infrastructure, and the protection zone of the airport complex, i.e. that limited construction is possible and that the construction of those facilities that can threaten safety for the safe operation of air transport can be stopped. One fact I would like to share with the other MPs, which concerns the "Nikola Tesla" airport, i.e. the runways to be built and other runways to be built on the territory of the Surcin municipality from which I usually come, and as a member of the SNS, I am interested in the problem that has currently arisen. In fact, the problem that has been going on for a number of years has arisen by not hiring the authorities of the City of Belgrade and local authorities in Surcin, which have allowed some citizens of the unknown most, but I have to be precise, and the irresponsibility of the authorities will not prevent them from building facilities in the territory on which a second runway is to be built today. These same people who led to this situation today in the territory of that municipality extends disinformation and scares the citizens. I'd like to inform the public about the alleged destruction of several hundred houses, which can't possibly be true. It is even going to bid 1000-1200 objects that will have to be removed for this reason for the construction of a second runway planned on the territory of the municipality of Surcin. I would like to thank and apologize once again for the time taken, and I would like to invite all MPs to make themselves known in the day of voting for this law, as well as for the other laws of the set that we had on the agenda today. Thank you. Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10519	Thank you for mentioning these 700 houses because none of them will be destroyed. They were under the airport. We're moving that border line, so none of those 700 houses will be torn down or run out of roof over their heads.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10520	Thank you. The People's Messenger Miladin Shevarlic has the word. He's not here. The word is by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. He's not here. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10521	The Courts belong to that group of Serbia that thinks we are not an extremely rich society, that we do not have honey and milk and that our citizens are not doing well materially. That's why we may not be normal, but that's what we think, and that's why we can't support this bill of housing and building maintenance. In fact, this law would be good if we were really organized society like Switzerland and we really have a much higher level of personal standards than we have. A number of burdens are imposed on Serbian citizens in the coming period without need. For example, one of these is that so far a residential building, and now the housing communities had no legal personality within the meaning of the Accounting and Audit Act. Now, since you, in Article 15 of this proposal of the law, provide that the housing community will be subject to rules concerning the association, this means that they will be subject to the accounting and audit law and that it will have an additional burden in terms of the obligation to conduct accounting, to submit a final account and so on. It is one of the burdens and imposes on Serbian citizens who should be clearly told. I'm very worried about the fact that we have a professional management that can be imposed. It is not disputed that there is a professional building manager that the Assembly, or now the residential community, would personally hire and it is not disputed that they pay him a certain compensation, but what is controversial is what you impose, and at extremely short notice, numerous possibilities to introduce forced management in the building and that then the amount of compensation is determined by local self-government. You know, it's about ignorant parties. It's about very complex communities. For example, we have heard from one MP, who lives in Banjaica in a 20 - story soloist, that it is extremely difficult to organize a congregation of tenants and organize a selection of persons who would do those jobs. That's why I really don't understand why you have such short deadlines in the law, and it literally concerns all the items you've predicted. One of the things that you didn't have a good intention is that a large range of penalties for natural persons, i.e. for the owners of special parts, you predict between 5,000 and 150,000 dinars, and for the residential community from 50,000 dinars to 22,000 dinars. It is a great danger and a great burden potentially for many of our citizens who are extremely poor, if we have a situation where there is electricity excise, so 15 billion are taken away from the salaries of people working in the public sector, that pensions are reduced, that we have an extremely high property tax. What's interesting about the property tax? Namely, you, members of 58 and 61, predict that the obligations you impose under this law will be imposed both for emergency interventions and for ongoing maintenance, but also for the investment maintenance of the building, that the rules that you regulate will be governed closer, that is, by your ministry, by the local self-government unit. We know that the tax on the property of the local self-government unit was quite broad-handed in their interest, so they cut off an extremely high level of that tax, so there's a big concern that they'll behave as well in this case. Here, the gentleman who spoke before me, who comes from Surcin, can confirm that, let's say, people have a basis for tax in Surcin as if they live in Požega Street on Ban's hill, that even there are some halls that serve economic activity, when they take credits with banks, the market is estimated at 300, 400 euros, and local self-government estimates them at 1,100 euros when determining tax on property. So we really need to make sure that there are a large number of faces, especially in the city center, here, in particular in Belgrade there are a large number of persons who are modest material opportunities. You're saying that somewhere. In the light of this law, you say that the result of privatisation has created a phenomenon of poor owners because of the hyperinflammation that has all been unimagined, and then they do not have enough funds to pay for the cost of having property, which is particularly related to the cost of investment maintenance and improvement of housing buildings. That's what you're right about, but from all of this, it turns out that when you want to impose some new obligations, first of all in investment maintenance, don't worry that these are the very poor owners of that property. How will they respond to the burdens you impose upon them? What are we going to do tomorrow when we get into a situation where some pensioner who lives, say, in downtown Belgrade and who can't fix the facade, can't introduce isolation, can't participate in the financing of a professional manager, can't respond to all of your duties, does he have to sell the apartment and move to the periphery? Well, we can really be scared, at least we who live in the city of Belgrade, since we know that city manager Goran Vesic, who has been staring at this city for 20 years, has been known for it. I'd also refer to these protected tenants. You know, enough has already been said here about these people who have been unable to buy those apartments. And it is not disputed, let's apply the same thing to the various tycoons that, before you came to power, I agree, but in some previous period, we could have seized the property of the tycoons for our business needs in the same Prince Michael's office, by the same terraces, so let's say, well, gentlemen, let's take it from you now, and put some business space for you in the same square. That would then be fair, gentlemen from the Serbian Progressive Party, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I'd like to look back on another finding. In a public debate, your assistant, sitting next to you, on the right hand side, miss or ma'am, I apologize, Atanakovic Jovanka, if I am not mistaken, has stated that the right to an apartment is not a category known to the European Union. Well, you see, we don't exactly agree with you here. I have such information that in one of the previous debates such a thing has been said. We're just thinking the opposite. I don't know how the European Union sees it, but Dvori thinks the right to an apartment is one of the basic human rights and that every citizen of Serbia should have an apartment. I ask you, is this the European Union's plan to break down and take away the only liquid we carry from the past 25 years? Because having apartments owned, you know, a large percentage of Serbian citizens own property, even I think that's the percentage that many European Union countries can't raise, is that some plan to take away what's last of us? And, should I quote my distinguished colleague, Mr Vladimir Djukanovic, the Minister, are you the author, or did the Government of the Republic of Serbia come up with this law, or is it just in Brussels, or the trilateral commission, or George Shoros, since you, according to counterpart Djukanovic, are the opponents of these institutions?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10522	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10523	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You know, ladies and gentlemen, that we answer here whenever necessary, but we don't have to do everything. What's worth mentioning, just in case someone's going to look at this, is that it's precisely the bill that was discussed and the envisaged protection of protected residents, as well as the concern of endangered social groups, again in terms of their accommodation. So much on the subject of any, even theoretical occurrences of the possibility of a right being threatened by those to whom these rights have been guaranteed so far. On the contrary, the goal is to protect these rights even better and even better. If someone accidentally has any doubt about it, these solutions, good ones, certainly better than those that were in place, we came up with ourselves, just like we do everything else. Auto-projection is a common phenomenon, but by those who get a served opinion and text that will deliver there's no need to have any concern for us. We're doing ours right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10524	You have no right to a replica, colleague Nogo. The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10525	Indeed, in this address of yours, you were talking, first of all, at least about the bill itself. I guess you didn't have enough time, as you say, to read it all. But what you need to know, first of all in the building, we have to invest and we have to invest in the maintenance of these buildings, because if we don't, they're going to collapse, and when they do, we're going to be homeless, and I don't think that's the point. Therefore, buildings must be maintained, these buildings must be managed, and it is absolutely incorrect to find that they are being imposed and that citizens will not be able to pay for it. So far, all of them, or all of us, have a obligation to pay for building maintenance and all those who have respected the laws and who have respected their obligations, will not have any problems, except now we will arrange the way in which the building is managed in practice. So there are no new burdens that you mention. When you mention the living communities or the residents’ congregations, they are now legal persons. But under the Accounting Act, Article 4, they will not submit financial reports, but they need to remain legal persons because of all other activities, that is, all other businesses that they will do. Also, you mention short deadlines somewhere, etc. I really think that if we were to listen to what you're saying about short deadlines, about some things being done gradually, etc., then it seems like we're never going to fix this area. So that's not how we work, we want to settle things. We recorded a very clear state, it took us two years to see exactly when we were talking about the apartment where we are today, and we proposed this law just in order to create conditions for everyone to have an apartment. It is absolutely incorrect that anyone from the Ministry, including the assistant you mentioned, is not the EU-known right to the apartment. On the contrary, this law creates conditions that everyone, before long, resolves their housing issue, and those who today cannot and do not, but there are other types of housing support that will enable them to have an apartment and that they can, like all other citizens, live. You also said one important thing about how you don't understand how we think we're doing it, and now I'm telling you that it's very important that we settle the issue of housing, because if we don't finish it, and you're always calling for liquids and rights, then we don't seem to be able to talk about any other rights. This constantly promoting the story whether you are told it in Brussels, whether it is from the EU etc., all of it can sound nice in some campaign, but our biggest partner is the EU right now. It's no problem, if you think in your policy that you need to completely break up, then that means that all the companies that exist here in this country, that all these companies that hire people here, that everything we do in that foreign trade should no longer exist, and then it needs nice and clear to say. So that first part you said, fine, that's your attitude. When you come to power one day, the citizens of Serbia should know that there will be no more of those companies that have opened their jobs here and that people will be safely out of business with the policy that you are proposing. Just to be perfectly clear to the end of what it means, in relation to what you are now propagating and speaking.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10526	Right on the line, MP Srdjan Nogo.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10527	First of all, I'm glad you didn't make the arguments, first of all my fellow MP, and you couldn't answer my arguments, because I was just referring to the laws, so I even quoted a few members to you, Art. 15, 16, 58, 61, criminal provisions there in Article 132, 133, as well as a mere explanation of the laws that we have stated. It's just that you have to understand me, as a national MP, I have a high opinion of other fellow Members of the People, so I had to ask you some questions, because I heard such things from the mouth of one MP, particularly my colleague Vladimir Djukanovic. I am pleased that you have explained to me the relationship between the SNS towards the EU and Eurofanatism, since I heard a colleague, Mark Parezanovic, say it is one opinion, but I will still trust you more, since you are SNS Vice-President and Minister of Government, what is the SNS' position on the EU. As far as this law is concerned, yes, you, I responsibly claim, are introducing additional costs and additional charges for citizens. And yes, this will be a great burden for the impoverished citizens of Serbia. I agree - let's get things started, like you said this morning and let's settle this issue. But first of all, let's raise people's wages, let's live a better life, to start a business, because they don't have people to pay for this. We need to be clear about that. This isn't Switzerland after all. And what you're saying as your policy, that's one thing, but reality is another. And the people of Serbia cannot withstand all these obligations and all those burdens that you have imposed on us. It's true and it's the key to this problem. If we were as rich as Switzerland, this law would be great. But we're not, Madam Minister. You have to understand that. Another question – do you know that such a law, with similar provisions, has already been adopted and exists in Macedonia? And do you know why it was used in Macedonia? For abuses during the election, because these managers listed apartments where no one lives, and then falsely reported 10, 20 people before the elections and allowed them to vote. And let's remember those calls before the last vote...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10528	You're bringing an end to the discussion. The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10529	Because of the public and the citizens of Serbia, there are no new commitments, and what you're saying is absolutely not true. Yeah, we're trying to create conditions for everyone to have their own apartments. I repeat - especially those people who are socially endangered. This law for the first time very clearly defines both criteria and all possible groups that can use social housing. I think that's important. Yes, you can say that we are not Switzerland, but we should try to be a state of order and modern and we will do everything in that sense. When you talk about my colleague's comment from the Serbian Progressive Party, then you should say very clearly what he said. So, I agree with that, and that's government policy. Yeah, we're heading towards European standards, but at the same time, we don't ignore relations with both China and Russia and the United States, and with all the countries, because we're too small to just commit ourselves to one side. And what you do, you explain through a really clean demagogue and show the citizens that this Europe is horrible, and at the same time, it's our biggest partner, and you're only going to turn one side. Just to be clear, the government's policy is, the Serbian Progressive Party's policy is clear and we didn't accidentally get more than 50% of the votes in the last parliamentary elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10530	The People's Messenger Jovica Jevtic has the word. He's not here. ) The word has a National MP Bosko Obradović. He's not here. ) The word has a People's MP, Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10531	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Honorable Minister of Associates, we enter at 13 o'clock of this debate and thank you, first of all, very much today, and thank you for sitting patiently all these 13 hours and listening carefully to all our statements and answering all the questions asked. They were all very clear, unlike frequent populist statements, performances, unlike insults and too many questions you had to answer today. I think a lot of things have been said and I'm going to try to be a lot shorter, because we're starting to get into small hours. I will try only briefly, the Law on Housing, the Law on Community Works and what is probably quite important, and somehow it has failed today – the Agreement with the People's Republic of China when it comes to the mutual lifting of visas for our citizens. When it comes to the Law on Community Works, there have been a lot of misunderstandings in the public. There have also been some problems at local self-government level. We heard this morning and one of the unargumented things – there was no public debate. If these people were interested in this public debate, they would probably know that public debates have been held throughout Serbia when it comes to the Law on Community Works, and that is why in Subotica, in the local self-government I come from. You know there have already been a lot of problems in subotica when it comes to interpreting some previous legal solutions from 2011. These laws clearly and precisely define municipal activities. What came from Subotica as an initiative, you know, was about the work of funeral companies, especially private ones. In Article 3, we see, when it comes to the provisions that are being changed and complemented, that definition of management of cemeteries and funerals and funerals is divided, which will allow private undertakers to continue to keep their employees, continue to work and thus increase the number of jobs, as well as the quality through that competition that will take place in that part. On the other hand, we will also retain control of the process completely when it comes to the management of cemeteries and burial. Thank you for having understood everything that came from my local self-government and thank you for understanding the problem we faced. This is a big deal for the local self-government I come from. The second part of the Housing Act, two new categories – a residential community and this regulation that determines the relationship between the tenants. The housing community, unlike what it is so far, is getting something much wider than what is building maintenance. He can, as such, act as a legal person before the authorities of the administration, even before the judicial authorities. It's a big deal. The rule on mutual arrangement of the householder's relationship is something that allows the law to enter into their relationship only in the most important things, everything else leaves to the tenants to agree on their own, and it is a good thing that some of their household management makes the best decisions for their buildings. What I missed today, I am glad that some representatives of the opposition support this law confirming the agreement between the People's Republic of China and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and as regards the visa waiver, said individual representatives of the opposition, large patriots, large Serbs, I just don't know what they're glad about this agreement and will support this legislative proposal. However, which is a degree of hypocrisy towards the citizens of Serbia and some kind of political pulsism, I will only tell you one fact. One of their prominent members, the vice president of the virtual movement, says, and otherwise she is employed at an American consortium for nuclear physics and security, and this statement stands on the site of this consortium, he says, "There is a critical need to protect ourselves from our nuclear potentials – when it says "our", I guess the American and that virtual movement - do not go into the wrong hands, especially in China, India and Russia." It's enough to talk about the degree of hypocrisy when we have that movement and their disembarkation in this assembly and I wouldn't say anything further than that, but I'm glad, in any case, that they will support that law that is before us today. Thank you for everything and continue the path you've been going so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10532	Thank you. (Srdian Nogo: Replica. Sir, you have no basis for replication. The word has a folk MP Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic. Here you go. LJUBICA Mrdakovic Todorovic: Thank you, Chairman. Dear Madam Minister with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, I will be brief in my presentation on the proposal for a law on the transport of dangerous goods. I would like to say that today we are witnessing the rapid development of the economy and increasingly dynamic economic relations, thanks to our government, headed by Prime Minister Alexander Vukic, by imposing the need to regulate legislation that rightly regulates a number of relationships and situations, all with the aim of being legal support primarily for economic operators, but also other actors of economic relations. The existing 2010 Law on the Transport of Dangerous Loads has shown a number of shortcomings and shortcomings, so instead of speeding up smooth economic relations, it has been rarely a brakester of these relations, seizing economic operators into a number of administrative distortions, which were envisaged, proved itself. In addition to a number of shortcomings in the existing regulation, there are more important reasons why this law needs to be changed, so I will list some of them. By ending the highway through Serbia in 2017, transit through our country, and thus transporting dangerous goods will be increased. The transport of dangerous goods, whether domestic or international transit character, can be extremely dangerous for both the population and the environment and the environment, as well as for other traffic participants, so that we need as good legal solutions as possible to act primarily preventively in order to avoid unwanted consequences in the transport of dangerous goods, so we need legal solutions that enable us to improve safety in the transport of dangerous goods. European integration makes up its own and Serbia and Serbia increasingly fits into the EU's regulatory system. In fact, by signing numerous regional and international agreements and protocols, as taxed in Article 4 of this Law, we are obliged to integrate the provisions of these Treaties into our national legislation and to overcome anachronic standards that hinder the further economic development of the nation and threaten the safety and health of other actors in traffic and the very population itself. The aim is to transport dangerous goods in both road and rail and river transport as safely as possible from one destination to another, without jeopardising the environment itself. And how inadequate the transport of dangerous goods can be best known by following television and news headlines about various haematries, tanks, ships, tankers, wagons with extremely dangerous and toxic content, which is due to hawari, thus jeopardising the safety of the population about the proportions of long-term harmful impacts and the consequences of the environment and the eco system. We're all, I believe, to the extent necessary. Making a new law is only the first step in establishing modern regulation in this area. After that, in order for the law to live in its full form and capacity, the competent departments will, in good time, adopt all necessary regulations and sublaws to enable the full application of the law. On this occasion, I would like to say that in this proposal the interested parties through public consultations had the opportunity to express their opinion, their objections, their suggestions and suggestions. Although this law refers to a relatively small number of economic operators, I am primarily referring to entities dealing with the transport of dangerous goods, the reflex fact of safe, or not safe transport of dangerous goods and the population in general, the environment is immeasurable, so that the adoption of this law is in the interest of all of us as a society in general and therefore I call on all my colleagues to vote for this bill, as well as for the other proposed draft laws which are the subject of today's session. I thank you. Thank you. The word has a national letter from Studenka Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10534	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, when we talk about the Airport Management Law proposal, I must express my great satisfaction that you have recognised the need to develop an airport in Serbia. Air traffic except in everyday life has a very important role to play in the development of economy and tourism. This law defines the activity of airport management as a measure of general interest and, apart from the possibility of building new airports, defines the possibility of developing and modernising existing airports with accompanying infrastructure. There are 39 officially registered airports in Serbia that differ according to the purpose, equipment and capacities. The Bor municipality in its territory has an airport that is regional. It has an asphalt runway on which smaller passenger planes can land even though it was originally imagined as a sports airport. So, the current airstrip capacity of the Bora airport is planes of up to 5,700 kg, which means about 40 passengers. It owns an administrative building and a hangar, and it stretches to 60 ha of land. So far, it has not been possible to invest in the development of the airport, but has invested as much as necessary to preserve the infrastructure from further collapse. This law created a legal basis, i.e. the possibility of the concession being one of the possible means of providing funds for the development, i.e. commercialisation of the airport. Also, the rights and obligations of concession and concessionary providers and conditions for land expropriation are regulated where there is a need to build accompanying facilities. Sustainable and high-quality maintenance of airport infrastructure and use of purpose, as well as safe air traffic. This law and the adoption of a national airport development programme in the Republic of Serbia, which brings forward the government, provide conditions for long-term development and improvement of the airport, which shows serious intention to ensure that this area is fully regulated. The development of the Bora airport would be very important for eastern Serbia. I would point out that the development of the airport allows for further market development, market competition, which implies improving economic and economic opportunities in the country. On the other hand, economics are time money, the existence of more airports in operation, at different locations in the country allows for faster and simpler movement of business people. What else is important in this law? It is also prescribed to adopt a sublegal act by the Government which is closer to regulating criteria, i.e. criteria for the allocation of incentive funds for airports. So a chance will be given to develop and modernise Serbia's airports in this way. In the end, let me explain, given that today there was a question here about who can perform the activity of airport management, so I think there are some misunderstandings. Therefore, operators can be public undertakings, a company of capital, limited liability companies, but also entrepreneurs who meet the requirements of technical equipment and personnel training. To recap, I am giving absolute support to this law and I call on fellow Members to do the same in the day of the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10535	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Ljiljana Malusic. LJLJANA MALUSIĆ: The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister of Ministers from the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, tonight I will talk about the Bill on Apartment and Building Maintenance, this is a complex law that includes the third law, which is housing support. You kept telling us tonight that this is an emergency law, that nothing's wrong, that there's an intrusion. That's just not true. It is true that it is not an emergency law but rather a public debate, and all were able to declare the law, and NGOs, institutions, different organisations and 27 institutions just appeared positively. This is an excellent law with all aspects. It contains a lot of economics, a social one, containing what fascinated me as a woman, which is the introduction to human rights. So now we have something that has never been mentioned before, let alone been introduced. What's this about? It is that a vulnerable group, a marginal group, as well as women victims of violence or not just women, but anyone in a partner relationship will never be left behind, but what happens? It will happen that if someone is the victim of violence, they will get the necessary accommodation. We're a human society. We are a society that is slowly approaching the EU and we are a society that will someday live in Switzerland. And in order for that to happen, we need to introduce some new concepts and better solutions for this country. Namely, what is the purpose of this law? The resolution of legal and property relations that have not been resolved since 2009, and those laws in 1992, 1995, and in 2009 did not give anything smart or positive. Now we're going to solve the problem of protected tenants. Namely, we solve both protected tenants and solve apartment owners, desperate people who can't get into their apartment for 70 years. We return them to our apartments, and local self-government has this role to play to all protected tenants, to provide them with apartments within 10 years. So we're going to provide them with apartments from public property, and these people are going to be able to buy apartments that they could never buy, because they're in other people's apartments. So, good for the government and the Ministry of the Republic of Serbia. Secondly, it's been tough for 19 years, and no one's ever had a finger on the housing because the funds are residential because there's a lot of misunderstandings, because there's a lot of questions. It was difficult, and not only was there not strength, but there were no educated people, there were no teams that could pass this law. You should have the guts for something like this. They honor us today that instead of professional managers, an institute that is being introduced as a new category, let's talk about bankruptcy managers. So what kind of bankruptcy directors? And this is an alternative to introducing a professional manager so if you don't want to or if you can't have in your neighborhood when you're solving the problem of your building the man who's going to do it for you, then you're going to have to have a professional manager, you should do it for you. I don't have time to deal with my building first, even though I'm trying as hard as I can, so I'm gonna give someone a chance. Then we give the man, we take him off the bureau, that's one good law, because we hire who knows how many people. There are enormously many buildings in Belgrade. This law is good, and as far as all of us are concerned, and every normal person will think they should give this law a chance with multiple aspects. Thank you for your attention, I'm sure in the voting day, all the people who discussed this against this today will say that to this law. Thank you. Thank you. The word has a national MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10537	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, is here today a set of laws from the authority of the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure and I must say that all laws have one common feature, which is to contribute to the economic progress and development of our country and to improve the quality of life of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. These are certainly the reasons why the SNS will support these laws in the voting day. I must point out that this government is responsive to all problems and all aspects of our country's development and progress, and thanks, of course, to this responsible approach and responsible adoption, both the legal framework and the responsible implementation of the laws adopted, we have made progress on the World Bank list, from 91st place to 54th place in 2015, and during 2016, we have also made progress and are in 47th place. Certainly, the laws that have been passed right from your ministry's jurisdiction, above all, as regards the issue of electronic building permits, have contributed that the World Bank appreciates that there is a favourable investment climate in our country regarding both the attraction and foreign investors and, of course, investors from our country. What I wanted to point to, and what's going on around here today as a remark, is that the House and Building Maintenance Act is destroying human rights. I just have to say it's absolutely not true. In fact, the law on housing and maintenance of buildings implements, first of all, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, then the Law on the International Pact, Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, guidelines and recommendations on persons who need to be displaced, as well as other recommendations from the Council of the European Commission. Also, I must point out that Article 78, which is mentioned today, accurately and clearly refers to the emigration of persons who, contrary to the Law on Planning and Construction and on other people's land, have built their housing facilities, but nevertheless, in the members of the law from 78 to 88, in a detailed and precise manner, regulates the protection of human rights, respecting primarily the principle of legality, respecting the principle of protecting the dignity of those persons, respecting the principle of protection of the social threat of those persons, respecting the principle of mutual co-operation. I must point out that, by respecting human rights in these legal provisions, full participation of the persons for whom emigration is foreseen is foreseen, starting with that early public insight into the eviction plan, where besides those who are evicting is the necessary presence and social protection authorities to give them full support. Also, this law, while respecting human rights, also provides for the right to provide free legal protection, as well as the provision of other rights and social and health benefits, one general multi-sector approach and, above all, the right to protect the family, which means that members of one family, one household cannot be separated when they move in unless they want to. Of course, these are advanced laws, these are reform laws, these are innovative laws, and there is no dilemma that we will support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10538	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Olivera Ognjanović. The remaining time of the SNS parliamentary group 11 minutes and 42 seconds. OLIVERA OGNJANOVIĆ: The chairman, the Honorable Minister and Assistants, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments, will begin at the beginning to say that in the day of voting, I will vote for the proposed set of laws, and in my address I will refer only to some of the proposed ones. We've been listening for many years, and we've been facing major problems that utility companies have. One of the main causes of these problems is the unpaid claims that range up to 30% of total revenues. As a result, these companies and local self-governments responsible for their work failed to restore and increase capital, but the capital that was largely reflected in technical equipment has just been reduced. As a result, these companies lost efficiency for the services they perform and the employees were left without profit. Now all this responsibility will go to the hands of the businessman who will get a job in the competition to service certain utility services. For years there has been an unequal price for municipal services and everything is largely left to the jurisdiction of local self-government. That is why this is a very important bill, because more price control will be achieved, as well as the quality of municipal services. The paper is therefore that greater transparency will be achieved, not only in open competitions and price control, but will constantly check the quality of municipal services. Also, citizens, i.e. users of municipal services, will be those who will be giving their court, and if the lack and failure of local self-government is indicated, it will be mandatory to initiate the process of reviewing work, and to set a deadline of up to 90 days for the provider to remove deficiencies and pleas. As we already know, competitiveness requires modernly equipped enterprises, which means that as such they will be able to effectively and significantly engage in situations, such as when we have had floods in our country or in cases where the glider makes them fall. This bill will properly regulate the municipal service in local self-government by marking one legal entity, as the main and responsible for certain municipal services in local self-government that will show seriousness, be effective in serviceing its services and which is essential to hearing for its users. It is very important, when it comes to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, that we abolish the expenditure on this type of service and open a space for a free competition, as EU standards suggest. As a result, according to the budgets, it will be necessary to increase the price of these services by about 15 to 20%, which is a minimum for the economic sustainability of these companies. This is another important step leading to the stabilisation of the budget system. On the other hand, all other companies involved in municipal activities will be able to pay regular earnings to their employees. One of the services of the municipal service, the funeral service, will now be more accessible and open to private people who want to compete and compete with each other, and by separating funeral services into two works, the management of cemeteries and burial and funeral work, we get new jobs and increased employment. The next thing I would mention in the short lines is the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Goods, which introduces several newspapers that will solve a number of problems in practice. This proposal solves the problem of unequal treatment of designated works in the issue of ADR certificates for road vehicles, then the application of the institute so-called. the derogation from the application of technical regulations in road, rail, water and air traffic used by the EU Member States themselves, which protects the domestic carrier from high costs, and subsequently speeds up the process of recognising compliance documents on the basis of an external document issued by the designated body in an EU Member State. Also, mandatory insurance is abolished under the applicable Law on the Transport of Dangerous Loads due to high deductible franchises, and it is important to apply the responsibilities of the Transport Administration to the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure. This bill brings us closer to the EU and compliance with its standards. This way the problems that clearly exist are solved in the most efficient way possible and costs are reduced to domestic carriers. So I will also say that these arguments are just proof that the government of the Republic of Serbia has made a huge effort and that this is why I will vote in favour of these draft laws. Thank you. Thank you. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10540	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is of great importance for Serbia to adopt an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China on visa waiver for holders of ordinary passports. It is difficult to take the impression that this agreement is a confirmation that a successful foreign policy of a single country leads to its economic development, that the function of foreign policy is to lead to the economic development of a single country, especially when it comes to small countries such as Serbia, which have to lead one serious, balanced policy, as one of Italy's largest foreign ministers, Emilio Visconti Venosta, is always independent, never isolated, and that is something that should be pursued by all states, and such a multi-vectorial policy, foreign policy led by Serbia, we can see today at the confirmation of this agreement that represents raising the level of Serbia's co-operation with the People's Republic of China. The People's Republic of China is our friend. The strategic partnership established with the People's Republic of China, which each year has been upgraded to new agreements, which now, after a successful level of political co-operation, slowly shifted to the economic level, and the latest visit by the president of the People's Republic of China resulted in 22 signed agreements. We have heard here today from many MPs whether this agreement will affect the security of the Republic of Serbia and in what way and whether Serbia is in the role of the People's Republic of China, concerning the EU space. I just want to say that the People's Republic of China is leading a foreign policy called the so-called foreign policy. Wine policy, which, from any relationship with any other country, wants to establish a partnership relationship and that every country in this partnership will have a concrete interest. This is how the People's Republic of China has been acting all the time in terms of the Republic of Serbia, support in international institutions for our territorial integrity, our national interests, support for the Republic of Serbia under Project 16+1, co-operation with the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, and a great chance for the Republic of Serbia when it comes to infrastructure projects and co-operation in the areas of telecommunications, traffic and business co-operation. I want to say that, and that's my impression when visiting a delegation of Serbia's National Republic of China, that this agreement that we sign will certainly contribute to the development of tourism, because unlike some other countries that are successful in promoting tourism, we have been told by the National Tourist Agency of China that more than 200,000 tourists from China are coming to the Czech Republic alone annually, and that about 15 thousand are in Serbia. Such an agreement will certainly contribute to the tourist development of the Republic of Serbia. So we need to strive to develop with partner friendly countries, such as the People's Republic of China, as close as we can, as far as possible, and absolutely certain that such an agreement will contribute. Serbia must continue to lead more economic foreign policy, to take care of its interests, to realise its national, national, economic interests in every place, and only in this way will we successfully develop our country and preserve our independence. In that sense, full support for the agreement with the friendly People's Republic of China. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10541	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragana Kostic. The remaining time of the SNS parliamentary group is two minutes 58 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10542	I thank the chairman. Dear Minister with fellow Members, we are facing today a set of laws that are very important in the field of action of general national interest. One of them is a bill on airport management. It is important to stress that the adoption of this law creates conditions for granting airports to concessions, which is one way of providing funds for development, i.e. commercialisation of Serbia's airports. The government, too, can be praised by modernising the airport "Nikola Tesla", a newly built platform for defrosting and preventing the freezing of aircraft worth 570m dinars, which will significantly contribute to the regularity and frequency of traffic. The fact is that after 40 years it began to build a view at the airport, which envisions an investment of about one billion dinars. To mention the airport in the privatisation process, it is expected that as a model management of the selected concession. The expected revenue from the concession would be 10m euros annually, plus a concession fee of about 400m euros. Since last year's profit, the Nikola Tesla airport, we must stress that it has paid 14m euros in Serbia's budget. Certainly, other small airports in Serbia, which are about 30, are of particular importance for Serbia's regional development, as well as for the development of tourism, should not be ignored. An example of this is the airport in Nis "Constantin Veli", which has served 25,000 passengers this year and is expected twice as much next year, which is significant for nearby tourist centres such as Soko Banja, Niška Banja, Stara Planina. Also, thanks to this airport, agricultural products from the south of Serbia will be transported abroad, thus achieving far greater competitiveness of Serbian agricultural products on the foreign market, thus speeding up the development of agriculture in the area. A 10m-euro Turkish government's announced donation to the enlargement and promotion of Morava airport to the Kingdom should not be ignored, exclusively for civilian purposes. Serbia's airport, which starts working next year, will be tasked with setting up civil air traffic at the airport, as well as training for the use of already existing military and mixed airports in Serbia, which could be used to transport passengers and goods, but also to build small airports and increase safety on them. The benefit will be provided by all, through the budget, passengers and other service users through better operating conditions and greater security, and employees through better quality working conditions. The adoption of this law creates preconditions for further strengthening airport capacities in line with European standards, and opens the possibility of economic and economic prosperity in these infrastructure areas, as well as in Serbia. It is inevitable to say that at today's summit in Southeast Europe, our airport Nikola Tesla received all the praises, because in just 11 years it doubled the number of passengers, and the average time to double passengers is 15 years. Anyway, I'm gonna back this bill in voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10543	Before concluding a joint principle and uniform search, I ask whether the Presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96 want to speak. Rules of Procedure? The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10544	I can agree with my esteemed colleagues that decisions should be made and policies that are in the interests of Serbian citizens, and therefore I believe that this housing law should be rejected, as something that is at the expense of Serbian citizens and that money is coming out of their already poor pockets. Once again, if you want to introduce order, introduce order so that people have money, have the means to provide themselves with a decent life, and no, here we are for 16 years on that path to the EU and how order is introduced into this country, all over the back and back of this troubled people. But let's look at another law. The airport management law, I can agree with SNS MPs who provided data on the successful operation of the Belgrade airport, but then I have to ask a question – what is one such law and what is the intention of you to grant to the Belgrade airport of Nikola Tesla? If this airport has top performance in business, let's say, for the first nine months of this year, it's over 21m euros in profits, and it's estimated that it's over 26m, how much has it achieved last year, that investments are bigger and bigger each year, they increase, they were four billion dinars or this one, why do we give it to a concession? Everyone knows airports are monopolies. So, the monopoly is to have an airport. You can't introduce competition here, you know. Second, the airport is a brand. Nikola Tesla Airport in Belgrade is a serious brand. It's not just material investment, it's been investing for decades, but it's a lot more than a runway and all that technique. There's first of all security infrastructure. There's the staff training, you know. The training of frames is something that is also very recognizable. Furthermore, there is service provided by the state for free, fire support, MUP, DB, they are all located and are concentrated at the airport. Such a brand and value, why would we give someone at all, if they're doing well, and they can't do well. If it doesn't work well, it's a crime, so we don't lie. Everyone knows that revenues and that Belgrade Airport will have growth by the number of passengers and by the transport of goods and by the revenues achieved. Then why are we giving it to someone for a concession? Or I'd have to rephrase this question -- who do you want to give to Belgrade Airport, who you've already made a deal with, and who do you want to transfer this job to? That's the key and the right question, because, amazing thing, airports are in most of the countries of the world owned by state. The only thing worse than a state monopoly is a private monopoly. Everywhere they went into private hands, there was extra costs for passengers. So, as passengers, let's say, that we use Belgrade Airport, we pay 30 euros each plane ticket, so airport taxis 10 euros, safe taxis, etc. minimum. These are fixed costs that are only charged and that is a great source of income. Why should we give someone that copy of the income, especially when we know that your incomes will grow? If you have 30m euros a year now, with all the withdrawals you have from the Belgrade Airport, it's a steam factory with a week of growth. If someone told me that the state isn't capable of managing such a company, then the state is incapable of doing anything. If you can manage the state, you can manage any company, especially a monopoly company. Anyone could run that company. I would like to ask you, Madam Minister, to answer that, given that you have experience working at the airport, when you left the federal government as Mr. Labus' advisor, as far as I know, you set up a working relationship as a consultant, while Mr. Nebojsa Nedeljkovic operated the airport, also when G17 plus. To the soul, he didn't get famous, but then you saw him mismanage the airport. Now we have a situation to better manage the airport, so I'd like you to make a statement about it. Also, I'd like to ask you one more thing. You're saying you'll bring in the sublaws within 90 days. As far as I'm concerned, you have 120 to 150 people in your ministry working in that administration that's in charge of air traffic. Before, let's say, 16 years in the then federal state, I think that number was 20 people, not more than 20 people, which means we have one growth between six and seven times the number of employees and never the deadlines for the adoption of sublegal acts were that big, so I'd like to ask what those 120 and 150 people are doing. I really don't know the exact number, I know it's within that range, and why does it take them three months to get one of those sublegal rules? What do concessions look like when they're working with SNS? What worries me most is that this is how Belgrade Airport will go. So on November 9th, the government of the Republic of Serbia gave the building of the Geozovod 30 years of using "Belgrade on Water". 2.5m euros were invested by an Arab partner, but the value of the 30-year lease, when multiplied by 6,000 squares, times 10 euros, what it costs a monthly lease, times 12 months, times 30 years, is over 21m euros. Whether it will go the same way to Belgrade Airport, that is one key and serious question we need to answer. As far as co-operation with China is concerned, yes, we stand by and welcome this agreement that we conclude. I repeat, when we had a meeting with then Prime Minister Mr. Vukic here in this National Assembly, we have just indicated that he could solve the problem of over-indebted Serbia, as Hungary has already done, as he intends to do Bulgaria - to enable the purchase of bonds that would finance our foreign debt for a period of no interest of five to seven years and thus thank them at the IMF and the World Bank, just as Viktor Orban did and to be able to lead an independent policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10545	Thank you, colleague Nogo. The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10546	We'll talk about airports first. First of all, airports aren't monopolies. Secondly, this airport will also remain state-owned. If the government ever defines itself and goes to concessions, that doesn't mean that the airport's property is being sold. Also, it's not exactly information that airports are mostly state-owned everywhere. Absolutely incorrect information, so next time if you don't have information, let's send you that information. Why is there a need to invest in "Nikola Tesla" Airport? I am very pleased that you have noticed how much this government has done since the previous two years precisely on the development of the “Nikola Tesla” airport and how many passengers have now been increased and how practically the “Nikola Tesla” airport has become one regional hab when we talk about airports and compared to all other airports in the environment, when we watch projections, this is the only airport that has a growth trend. Therefore, if we want the airport to grow further, i.e. the revenues and number of passengers to grow, then the airport must also be invested. These investments are not measured by 10, 20, 30m euros. These investments are measured by hundreds of millions of euros so that we can really talk about one developed regional airport "Nikola Tesla". Therefore, the thinking of a serious government of the Republic of Serbia in which we are located is how to enable and how to see that airport not in a year, two, but in ten, twenty years, what it will look like and how much income it will bring, or how much it will increase traffic and the number of passengers, etc. It is thinking why we want to provide additional investment, which is measured by hundreds of millions of euros. So, are we going to make a decision, what that decision will look like, etc., that's something that is in the time ahead and certainly and certainly that everyone will be familiar with such information and with such decisions because the way we operate is public, clear and transparent. Also, we're not a government that's just gonna tell a story and run a campaign, we're a government that does its job exactly and clearly. What you've been saying is half-information and half-truths that can really look amazing to citizens at the first moment, and then when it's explained and when we go to the end compared to what you said, then it's understood how much what you're saying really doesn't answer the truth first, and secondly, unfortunately, it doesn't protect the interests of Serbian citizens. Second, you mentioned the number of people in the ministry. Let me tell you right now, the air traffic sector I run has an assistant and two employees. They're people who work under the law. So, just for your information. Then you mentioned the federal government and my work in the federal government. I was never in the federal government, I was in the Republic Government in 2004 and somewhere until mid-2005. After that, I was an energy efficiency consultant. It was then that an energy efficiency programme was created at the airport because the airport was spending a lot of energy at that time, but I left the airport when the director became Bojan Kristo. Furthermore, you mentioned, too, the Law on Housing and at all the laws we have given today, that they are not in the interest of Serbian citizens and that Serbian citizens do not have enough resources. I repeat again because of the citizens of Serbia, not because of you, because this serves you for the campaign, which is fine, and I am a member of the government and I am very responsible for all citizens of Serbia, the House Law does not bring any new burdens in relation to what Serbian citizens are already paying for building maintenance. The housing law won't leave anyone without an apartment. The housing law just needs to help us finally define our housing policy and to look to Serbia and living conditions for a certain soul, and not from today to tomorrow, and that would be all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10547	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10548	Your Honor, Madam Minister, you had no argument at any of my presentations tonight. I think you're the one running the campaign. Just because of Serbia's citizens, I repeat again, there is no reason for Belgrade Airport to be in a concession, and you are finding it yourself. Why would we give anything that yields revenue? Since 2000, all governments have led policies on the sale of national resources. You still want to go on with it. You want to give someone the opportunity to collect all the profits from Belgrade airport, and why wouldn't the state do that? It's something that hurts you when someone shows you the truth and reveals how you act like the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You are not working in the interests of Serbian citizens, but are doing exactly the opposite in the interest of your own party, i.e. in the interest of some international power centres. As far as the Housing Act is concerned, the evil intentions of the legislator can also be seen in the fact that you have provided for organizations that should be engaged in professional management. Why didn't you predict a professional manager just as an entrepreneur? What do we need an organization for? In order to further increase the costs of citizens, and this organisation, since you are the government of most local self-government, will certainly be one of your party parliamentarians who will then have a monopoly, both at the emergency administration in the buildings themselves, so there will be the largest number of these managers, so that it will be most often possible only to conclude the agreement with them, and that will certainly further increase the costs of citizens. You are introducing a new impose on the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I repeat, if you want to introduce order, let's change policy first, that there is no sale of national resources and, on the other hand, to introduce order in another way, not by breaking out money, but by poor people. Serbian citizens cannot respond financially to this law. This law will either remain a dead letter on paper or hit Serbia's citizens on the back well. Just to remind you, during the time you were at the airport, that airport director was important to one of the worst and I think SNS also often had the potential for Nedeljkovic as a bad example of the airport administration.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10549	Right on line, MP, Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10550	The measures that are proposed, just to make it better, I guess they're more than clear. When something, at least a few dozen times, repeats itself today as a reasonable, logical explanation, as a fact written in the law, and someone on the other hand refuses to accept it and says it all alone – you have not made arguments, I can only understand one way. Either he doesn't want to listen, or he doesn't want to read, or neither of us isn't enough to reach out. If the MP doesn't want to make an impression of a particularly smart man, his thing. Thank you very much. (Srdian Nogo: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10551	You have no right, Mr. Nogo, at no point did you mention your colleague. (Srdian Nogo: Injuring the Rules of Procedure!) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10552	Mr Arsic, article 104, says – if the MP in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly is insultingly expressed about a MP who is not a member of the same parliamentary group, stating his name and name or function, or misreading his presentation, the MP to whom the presentation relates has the right to replication. Now, you see, there has been a practice in the National Assembly so far that when you know directly who the exposure is, even without mentioning the name, and in particular I was the previous speaker and gentleman who spoke after me directly to the previous speaker. He spoke directly to the previous speaker. I think you're denying me this right to replication. I don't see why Mr. Orlic, I hope he wouldn't just be put up for no reason as vice president of the SNS parliamentary group and that he's spoken enough to engage in controversy with a fellow MP. There's no need for you to protect him from exchange of arguments.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10553	Mr. Nogo, I don't know how you know better parliamentary practice than I do. I've been a member of Parliament for many years. I've had more years in this House than you have in months. Orlic did not mention the previous speaker, nor previous exposure, nor the parliamentary group, nor the name, nor the name. He just said... So it wasn't about me? ) You recognize each other, and let the citizens conclude who they were referring to. So I shouldn't quote it any further. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Srjan Nogo: Okay.) ) It will come out. The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10554	Just a little clarification. The government of the Republic of Serbia and Serbia does not deny income or taxes when we talk about the airport, and it has absolutely nothing to do with any word called the sale. You said sale. Why is he investing in the airport? I think it's clear to every citizen. If not a citizen, then every economist. I understand. You're not an economist. But, then, we're not giving up anything and we're not doing it in some way that it used to be a long time ago, not so long ago in fact, since 2000 it's often worked. So we want to invest further in Nikola Tesla Airport, we want to develop and we want to be the best airport in the region. We are currently in third place, behind Budapest and Bucharest, and we want to be first. That's why, and we're not talking about privatisation at all, but we're talking about creating conditions to invest in the airport. We will see, arrange and do what is best and in the interest of our country above all else, because we are the Government of the Republic of Serbia and we are working for our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10555	The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10556	How much time do I have, sorry?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10557	Five minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10558	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I will spend the rest of my time talking about the House and Building Maintenance Act. If you are so sure that this housing law will bring and lead to change in terms of a better standard for citizens of Serbia, why did you say several times today that MPs do not scare the citizens of Serbia, or the public? Believe me, I tried to imagine buildings with beautiful facades from the afternoon conversation, but it didn't work out for me. Of course, not entirely. We've got buildings with nice facades now, we've got extremely good ones, we've got smart buildings, it's just a question of who can live there. If the citizens of Serbia listened only to the comments of those MPs who support the government of the Republic of Serbia, it would be the impression that only so far was the problem of this law and that it would be much better, incomparably better. So, there won't be any more problems with the broken elevators, there won't be any problems of any kind and everyone will have settled housing issues. It's not like that. Here, I would ask you and it seems to me that there is only one law that the citizens of Serbia respect and apply as a whole, which is the State Holiday Act. Come on, be honest and agree when I'm done with my presentation, when you expect this law to come into force that it will be as you imagined, as the MPs who support the government of the Republic of Serbia have said? It's not like that, and I'm going to say a few things now that you didn't have in mind or you don't want to talk about them. Our quest to improve the quality of this law was in the sense that this area should be arranged better than it has ever been, but this is not the law that will lead to it. You know, you've probably been a student and you've had a chance to see how the ones who didn't best save the matter on a written assignment, so when they copy from the others, they copy for a three, never for a five. We should look from the better and try to be better, but you have simply written some things that are not realistically possible to solve in Serbia by copying these provisions. Here are a few things that are more lexical, but we're going to be dealing with a little bit and essentially. He's running a building? Maybe he's running errands for building maintenance. I personally think you can manage some moving things or something, but run a building a little harder. Well, a community of tenants? In our people, it is common for a two - person community to be said only by the marriage community, and you predicted there could be a community of tenants where there are two special housing units. In this house law, it is said that the building is also considered something that has no walls, but it is covered, so in the provisions of this law you predicted that if a person has more apartments in one building, there is so much right to vote. You didn't bring it into connection with the structure or size of the housing unit. You haven't made any kind of restrictions, where there are buildings with I don't know, 20 and more floors, which have in one entrance 30 and more apartments, certain things need to be solved, and where there are two or three, even buildings that have four apartments, you leave the obligation to form and manage and the assembly of a residential building. Then you demand that local self-government introduce a register and that it be a person who will only do that kind of work. We say that, if it's already done, we really don't think any of this should exist, that it's a utility company. The penalties you've provided for disobeying the provisions of this law are between five and 150 thousand. So 25 times is the range between the lowest and the highest penalty. Obviously, who has little legal experience in determining these sanctions is not doing so. They're going to try to fix the situation in their buildings, but what if they can't? You're instituting professionalization. One of my colleagues said she'd hire new faces, that's not bad. Those new faces, somebody's got to pay. Our goal and intention is to hire new people in the real sector. Doesn't mean that in social activities, now that someone's retired, natural selection or something like that that doesn't need to be filled in, it should be done, but it takes a lot more effort to work in the real sector. Belgrade Airport mentioned someone as if, as if to sell it, it needs to be updated, we also think it should be updated. This country is supposed to invest in our airport, because it's definitely going to make a profit. There's support, but not to assign an airport to a concession, at least not right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10559	The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10560	You asked me, and when will the law be applied? I hope that MPs in parliament will vote this law, and the sublaw will also end, and we will already have a housing policy strategy in 2017, together with the action plan, and we will know exactly where we are going when we talk about housing policy. I did not say that flats would be awarded immediately, but I said – for the first time, we will finally create clear conditions and criteria for resolving housing issues, since this is how it has occurred to anyone. That's why we had three laws that treated three different areas, and nowhere from the beginning to the end, it was decided how it was supposed to be. So, as the law imagines, you and I can imagine it in different ways, but the law is very clear, there are very clear members that apply. I have heard many times that something is impossible, that it will never be, that it will never come true. That's not how I look at things, and that's not how this government looks at things. Everything we planned, we realized, any plan that might have seemed impossible for a moment, we managed to realize. There is no reason not to address the issue of housing policy, editing, building maintenance, etc., in this way that we have proposed to the Government, and now also today to the MPs in parliament. You've also asked about people who have multiple apartments in buildings, that's something I've immediately recorded, yes, they'll have more votes when they decide, but at the same time they'll have more obligations, because they have more apartments. What I have to underline once again is that the owners of the apartments are the ones who make all decisions that are important and important. The fines you mentioned were written in accordance with the Law of Infractions. Therefore, nothing in this law has been done by sitting down and playing the law, but because serious people have sat down for a year and a half, it's because we all know how important this law is, so how much we have to take care of everything we have in the past, which is not solved, but everything we want to see when we talk about housing policy in the future. Thank you. (Greto Peric: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-14-0.u10561	You don't have the right to a replica, Mr. Perry, you absolutely don't. Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary group, want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the minister want to give the closing statement? No, I don't. ) pursuant to Article 98(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint general and uniform search on the draft laws referred to in paragraphs 15 to 22 of the agenda. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
