ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1656	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Please first listen to the Anthem of the Republic of Serbia. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the sitting is attended by 156 MPs. [[intonating anthem]] In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your cards into the Members of the Electronic System. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 166 MPs are present in the hall and that most of the total number of MPs are present. Do any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wish to request a notice, in accordance with Article 287? Rules of Procedure? The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1657	Dear Chairman, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, I would like to ask a few questions in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, i.e. I would like to request a few notes and explanations to the competent state authorities, i.e. ministers and ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. First of all, a question, i.e. a notice concerning the migrant crisis and a question for Interior Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic and Minister for Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs Alexander Vulin, as to the situation currently in which the state of Serbia is located regarding the migrant crisis? We had a finding by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic that we have a huge number of migrants with whom we don't know what we're going to do, and they don't know what to do with us. We have, therefore, already the overcrowding of our reception centers, we already have the first cases related to attempted robbery, rape and various other incidents and the simple security of citizens has been questioned in some way. We want to have accurate information, which is of course of high interest to the citizens and us as MPs as to the state of the migrant crisis, because we are witnessing that the government is only now a year, a year and a half after warning the Dvora is coming to the position of the Dvora that we actually need much more seriously to control our borders and we are much more concerned about the security of our citizens. The second question concerns the case of the adoption of a child from Zrenjanin who has been upset by the public and is related to the adoption of a five-year-old by a married couple from abroad. We asked public questions to Minister Vulina, but we didn't get answers. So, on what basis is it estimated that enough days for a five - year - old child adaptive period and consent is given to the adoption of a child by a married couple from Sweden? If the child was legally similar to that of adopting himself before, why was he waiting so long to get used to the foster home, kindergarten, and the environment, and why did it ever come to such a situation as it occurred in Zrenjanin? We know that that's where the citizens protested over all this. Also, one particularly painful thing is that 2,200 workers of Lasta, our largest transport company, one of the largest in Europe, have not been certified for several months, for exactly four months, and thus has been disabled from having elementary health care today in Serbia. It is very important that we hear from Minister Vulin what is happening with the "Lasta" health book's cover. We know that one worker is on a hunger strike, and that strike has been going on for five years at the very entrance to this company. What I also want to point out in the end, and I think it is really of high interest to the entire public, is as far as the process is concerned, this is a direct question for the minister of justice and for the minister of police, until the process I informed the public a few days ago, and this is the case of multiple corruption in the ranks of SNS on the case of the former president of the municipality of Nova Varoš, Dimitri Paunovic, the current head of the Zlatibor County? I also have complete documentation on all types of corruption during his term as head of Novi Varosha. Here, it's been seven days since I met the public with all this. None of the competent state authorities contacted me to get acquainted with the material and to launch any investigation and any procedure in the event of corruption. It simply raises the question, I ask the question of course both Justice Minister and Police Minister whether it has anything to do with the protection of Mr Dimitri Paunovic from some high-ranking SNS officials such as former Justice Minister Nikola Selakovic, whom Dmitry Paunovic has paved the way to a home two kilometers long for seven million dinars from the local municipal budget? So who's protecting Dimitri Paunovic? Who protects corruption in Nova Varosha? Why hasn't anyone reacted for seven days to proven things concerning high corruption? And if the fight against crime and corruption is already important for the SNS, are the members of the SNS who are in direct corruption protected from investigation and the fight against corruption? Just to prove it is best to answer all these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1658	I didn't just hear you at the beginning of who's question? Who do I have to pass the question to?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1659	Especially for everyone. Let me tell you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1660	Who's the question in the government, which minister?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1661	Minister of the Interior and Minister for Labour, Employment and Combat Affairs and Minister of Justice, depending on the issue.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1662	Okay, thanks. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1663	Dear Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I would like to ask three questions. The first two questions from the Minister of Agriculture, Mr Branislav Nedimovic, regarding the implementation of the IPAR programme and the withdrawal of funds, i.e. accreditation of the Agency for Agricultural Payments. These days, we're just dealing with the fact that we didn't get the credentials. The ministry has been informed that it has been temporarily rejected, and if we have heard from the prime minister that the Agrarian Payments Authority has already been accredited. This means that we are not yet able to withdraw 175m euros from European funds that are still approved by Serbia in 2014. So, from 2014 to 2020, the programme lasts for the first three years. We didn't pull a single dime. I ask a concrete question - when will the Ministry and the competent institutions be ready and when can farmers expect that the first funds from the IPAR fund will be able to use and count on them? Also, how will the ministry provide, i.e. to address pre-financing, since the programme does mean, first, that investment is realised, and that after the event, the funds are refunded by the EU? The second issue, also for the same minister, concerns undeveloped areas of the Republic of Serbia, devastated areas. Since we had a Committee on Agriculture in Bujanovac on the President's initiative last week and we faced problems that farmers have in the municipality where there are over 50% unemployed, there is a purchase price of milk of 18 dinars, beekeepers get little or almost no help, I ask the question - is the Ministry of Agriculture intending and will there be a programme for the development of agriculture in such municipalities that have a high unemployment rate and in municipalities where agriculture is the basic income for most of the population living in them? I ask the third question for the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and for the Minister of Construction and Transport, which is about building a plan to build the Moravski Corridor, or highway Pojate – Preljina. I also asked the prime minister about the government's programme, because I did not see it as a priority to build that traffic station. I note that there are 500 000 inhabitants living in the area from Pojat to Preljina, that this highway would represent a strong housewife of the region, that because of the poor infrastructure connection in the early years we were not in an equal position in the fight for domestic and foreign investors and that it is necessary to build one such section of the highway. I ask a concrete question - is this the plan and when cities and municipalities, as well as citizens living in this part of Serbia can count on it? I do not know by which criteria is the higher priority highway Durres – Nis, compared to the highway Pojate – Preljina. So, these 100km for the Republic of Serbia should be a priority and it makes a triangle of highway networks by connecting Corridors 10 and 11 and I hope that the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Serbia will put the construction of this highway as a priority, especially because these days we are listening to various situations of negligence and irresponsibility related to the tunnels in Corridor 11. On this section of the highway, don't worry, there's no tunnels, it can be built freely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1664	Thank you very much. Slavisa Ristic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1665	Dear Presidency, fellow Members of Parliament, I would like to ask the parliamentary question I am referring to the government, the Prime Minister above all, and Minister Alexander Vulin. It refers to the fact that Serbs from KIM, primarily the citizens of the Zubi brook, expect an answer from the two -- who in April of the April month, during a pre-election SNS rally in the Zubi brook, fired rafalas at a sports hall in Zubin Potok and dropped a bomb? Why do people expect an answer from the two of them, first of all from Prime Minister Alexander Vukic? Because Alexander Vukic, in his election speech at the SNS convention in a sports hall in front of a full hall, confirmed to more than a thousand people that he knows it was done by Serbs. To support that fact, I will quote what the current prime minister is doing on that occasion, and then the prime minister's candidate said. I quote: "My answer to these Serbs who wanted to welcome me in such a way, may God be simple, I will fight for you and for your families to live in your hearths and be happier and happier than today. “ That’s what Mr. Alexander Vukitch said, that he knew who did it. Vukic also said at that time that everyone in Zubino Potok knows about how and from which kitchen they came both the bomb and the raffle, but that he is proud that no one mentioned their name today, and then Mr. Vukic's quote from the speech – "We didn't mention them after the bombs and the rafalas. We haven't spoken their name in one word because we want united Serbia, Serbia against hate, not Serbia's hate. “ After that, the current Minister Alexander Vulin confirmed in his speech that until that day he was proud when he came to Zubin Pot, that he was proud of these Serbs, those people, that he shared evil and good with them, that he had walked many snows, that he had drunk a lot of brandy with them, etc. that he was proud, but that he was ashamed of them these days. From that day to today, as you know, it's been a long time. First of all, the Serbs in Zubin Potok, the citizens of Zubin Potok, brought that epithet to be ashamed of this act, and even to this day, we don't really know the truth. I was counting, though, that Alexander Vukic didn't want to talk about the details, because he had to follow up on the investigation, but apparently there's nothing from that investigation. I ask this question for the reasons that Serbs in the Zubian Strait want to get rid of them and to know who these individuals have done it. That's one reason. Another reason is the fact that both at the time and the time of the event and until today's speculation that it was allegedly done by the organisers of the pre-election SNS meeting, so it would be good for the removal of these speculations that Aleksandar Vukic made public, since we understand that he cannot properly co-operate with Kosovo institutions, investigative authorities, etc., but that at least to the Serbian public, and above all, he tells the truth down there and that they are not ashamed if they have no reason to be ashamed of the event. I do have a reason to ask that question because it's symptomatic that something similar happened to me a few days later, a few weeks later. After the election day at my house, my family was also shot with a burst from an automatic rifle and a bomb was dropped, a similar number of casings, etc., and it seems that Mr. Vukic and I were threatened in the same way and approximately the same people were threatened. That's why I have a personal reason to ask. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1666	Thank you. The word is Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1667	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have two questions. One is for Culture and Information Minister Vladan Vukosavljevic, the second issue is also for Justice Minister Mrs Kuburovic and Interior Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. First question. It would not be good if the ministry of Mr Vukosavljevic, therefore the Republic Government, turned its head in front of something that Serbia itself would never allow, nor would it agree to. I mean, elections held in Montenegro. According to Montenegrin state officials, the election process is under great pressure from Russia. All who once participated in the elections know how unacceptable the situation in which the foreign country interferes in the electoral process is. We here in Serbia have often pointed to something. We differ politically, but together we're all very sensitive to any influence on the side. I would ask Mr Vukosavljevic if he, as a resolute minister, is he in control of those services, above all I mean the media, which are operating in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and at this point under great pressure expose Montenegro? I mean a whole series of cultural centres, the Traveller Information Service, of expert groups financed to operate on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I don't agree with that either, but as long as they act, they will deal with issues that are of internal importance. It's a topic that we have to think about together and talk about. When the infrastructure, which we have established and made possible here in Serbia, is used to pressure the election campaign in Montenegro, then we become accomplices to something we have always judged, so it would be good for the ministry of Mr Vukosavljevic to respond whether he is controlling the work of everyone, not just information services whose founders are, say, the Russian Federation, but anyone else within the law. We do not advocate censorship, but we believe it is unacceptable for Serbia to be used as a platform for jeopardising elections in Montenegro, given that we as a country would never agree and protest if any neighbouring country behaves in the event of elections in Serbia itself. I don't think that's the only reason to worry, there's another one. The topic challenging Montenegro's campaign from Serbia is topics that are Serbia's state priorities. We heard here during the formation of the government's prime minister, who, as the crowning priority of his cabinet, stands out Serbia's EU membership. Serbia cannot run a campaign against Montenegrin political parties pushing for Euro-Atlantic Montenegro, using the infrastructure we have made possible here in Serbia, because in such a way, it indirectly creates an atmosphere in which we will be stopped and in our efforts to achieve our policy objectives. For Justice Minister and Minister Stefanovic, the same very important issue. Last week, another hearing was held in the process against those indicted for the murder of journalist Slavko Curuvija. The Crown Witness said he was under pressure, that his children, his wife and he were personally exposed to threats. Another witness who appeared to the judges that day reiterated the same claims, going further, noting that for five years no one in the country wants to talk to him about the political background of the assassination of Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic. In front of the court council, in front of the lawyers, before those who were tried, he unequivocally announced that he was ready to announce to the prosecution the name of one of the closest associates of the murdered Prime Minister who participated in the March 12th 2003 assassination. I ask Nela Kuburovic and ask Nebojsa Stefanovic what they have done in the event of threats that have been raised by witnesses who have appeared in court and what have they done and will they do something about a statement by one of them that points to the political background of the murder of Zoran Djindjic?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1668	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1669	Thank you, Madam President. I would ask all MPs to consider two types of documents relating to the same thing, and this is about accreditation of the University of Novi Pazar, whose owner was formerly, and today the key man on it, our fellow Mufti Muamer Zukorlic. One type of document was brought by the Commission for Accreditation and Quality Verification, whose responsibility is this, and their conclusions are: Master of Academy Study Language and Literature – Solution for Refusal of Accreditation, Master of Academy Study of Fine Arts – Solution for Refusal of Accreditation, Master of Academy Study Law – Solution for Refusal of Accreditation, Applied Psychology – Solution for Refusing Accreditation, English Language and Literature – Solution for Refusing Accreditation, Informatics - Solution for Refusing Accreditation, Bosnian Language and Bosniak Literature – Solution for Refusing Accredition, Economy – Solution for Refusing Accreditation, English Language and Literature – Decision on Refusing Accreditation, Infits - Decision on Refusing Accredition of Accreditation, Art, Primary Academic Studies - Decision on Refusing Accredition, German Language and Literature - Decision on Religation of Crestation – Adistance of Credentialization – Ad? Their solutions and explanations as to why they came to such a conclusion are abundant in terms such as – the teaching programme is unsatisfactory and incomplete, a series of various subjects and topics, very few papers published on reference regulations, unskilled teacher for teaching, incompetent teaching staff, does not meet standards on the quality of study programmes, etc. I invite you to take a look at the second document signed by Aleksandar Vukic on the proposal of Minister Verbic, in which he writes – until the process of accreditation of the higher education institution and the study programme conducted by the Commission for Accreditation and Quality Check for the University of Novi Pazar, address, solution, etc. will be considered to have the permission to work in its headquarters and to have the right to issue public documents, and for the study programmes it will be considered approved. My question to Alexander Vukic, who signed one of these scandalous documents, is how is this possible? How is it possible for the Commission for Accreditation and Quality Control of Education to decide that no programme at this university meets the basic requirements of being accredited and that Aleksandar Vukic, on a proposal from Minister Verbic, believes that they are accredited? Does this mean that we have abolished all the institutions in this country, that instead of their conclusions, solutions and opinions, Alexander Vukic will tell us what he will consider instead and whether anyone who has proposed this will sign, who voted for this knowing how much damage this has done to our education system, how much damage unprofessional can, poor programs and a university that doesn't meet the conditions can do to all students who are educated in it? How is it possible for a university that does not meet any conditions to be accredited to issuing public documents that the Government considers to be correct and how does the Government think it approves the study programmes for which the Accreditation Commission has clearly stated that they have no grounds to be approved? The second question concerns something that has upset me, I think, a large number of parents, and it is news that appeared in our media some time ago, that as of the new year, to the extent of the austerity measure, the right to return VAT on baby equipment will be abolished. My question to Minister Vujovic is does he think there is no other way to save? Is that 14,000 to 17,000 dinars that the parents received in return really going to save our economy and don't they think that somewhere else they could be saved, not young families who decide to have children?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1670	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1671	The MP group "Enough Has Been" has two questions that would refer to the competent ministers. The first issue is addressed to the building, infrastructure and traffic ministers and concerns the business results of the ER Serbia. In the last two years, ER Serbia has recorded, it can be said, exceptional losses, unless subsidies are added, because then there is no loss. So the losses are covered by subsidies paid by all Serbian citizens. In 2014 it was around 80m euros, in the last year thanks to very good developments in the world energy market, the loss fell below 50m. Serbian citizens have helped "Er Serbia" with 130m euros through subsidies, and we cannot change that, that is reality. We have a national transporter that has a specific market that expands its business. The question here is – when are we going to get a business plan that shows that in the coming years this same firm will succeed in making at best a minor loss in the coming year, moving on to a positive business, and perhaps in some period that has been seen, and not for decades, through a positive business result brings some benefits to the citizens of Serbia who financed this business venture? So, when will MPs be introduced and Serbian citizens, with this as "Er Serbia" thinks to make a profit and what is the business strategy that is intended to be done because it is very unlikely that with the current rate of exploitation of lines with the current network and current way of doing business and with current energy prices this trend can be reversed? The second question is for the Minister of Mining and Energy and concerns the already serious threat we have received from the Energy Community that Serbia will be exposed to sanctions because for years we haven't been able to separate two gas distributors in Serbia and what it means to do because this is already a pretty serious thing, and we are suddenly delaying it. It is possible, of course, that another delay will be negotiated, but the question that is being asked in front of the Secretary-General is what he means to do and what is the deadline within which we will do what is expected of us so that we can enjoy all the benefits of becoming full members of the Energy Community. The benefits are much greater than membership in such a community than the costs we would have had by separating the Russian and Serbian operators. Finally, the third issue, which may not be so ghastly, but is important for a vulnerable group, concerns the ministry that is responsible for social policy in Serbia and refers to what is happening to a law that regulates the movement of people who are under-sighted, i.e. there is currently legislation in Serbia concerning the import of guide dogs. With numbers and letters, although it is unlikely that no one is interested in what is happening to weak-sighted people and to marginal groups, such as some fundamental and strategic issues, numbers and letters, a dog guide for all blind and weak-sighted people has been imported into Serbia so far. There is no sublegislative legislation regarding the training of these dogs, and we have one law that could help a fundamentally endangered group that is not applied because it has stalled underlaws. This time we really call for sublegal acts to be adopted and to enable all citizens of Serbia, regardless of any difference, to enjoy full equality in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1672	Ambassador Vojislav Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1673	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I refer my question to the prime minister of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic. All nations that have been able to form a state during their historical development, especially nations with long-lasting state-run traditions, have a highly expressed category of pride and dignity. The pride and dignity of a state is expressed through the use of state symbols above all. State symbols are a flag, a coat of arms and anthem, and there may be more. The states are jealous of their coat of arms, their flag, their anthem. The coat of arms is proudly worn, the flag is engulfed, while an anthem is sung for the flag. In civilised states, all flags are not allowed to stand out. The national flags, national flags, national minorities' flags and in the case of interstate visits to the flag of a foreign country whose country is a guest. But what our executive authority has done, headed by the government and the prime minister, is startling. For a long time, the prime minister and his ministers have appeared to me for more than four years, along with the Serbian flag, to be used by the European Union flag. It's illegal under our law. The Constitution prescribes the appearance of our state symbols and the law of their application. We get into a very awkward situation very often. The prime minister received a Russian or Chinese ambassador, on the one hand the Serbian flag, on the other hand Russian or Chinese, and besides this Serbian and European Union flag, so that the guest is stabbed in the eye. Prime Minister Medvedev was scheduled to come to Serbia at the end of September, then in October, so who knows if he will come in November as well. I wonder why he hesitates to visit? I have come to the conclusion that every statesman, both Russian and Chinese and other friendly countries, is uncomfortable that at the moment of their official admission, the European Union flag is wailing, and these countries are usually opponents of the European Union. From our inner point of view, it would be as if the Kingdom of Yugoslavia had hung on its German flag public institutions with a cowardly cross before the German occupation, because what Germany did to us in the Second World War of the 1990s was done to us by the European Community, by the European Union, by NATO. It's kind of a fake representation. You see, in order to regularly acquire a master's degree in economics Tomislav Nikolic had to pass 30 exams. He hasn't passed one, and he's busting his chest with that diploma. It's a false representation. Vukic, of course, has a college degree a long time ago, he was a great student, but he's about to get a new degree, too. Aleksandar Vukic has to pass 35 exams to gain the right to be disciplined by the flag of the European Union, to pass all these exams, and to pass both graduate and graduate and master and Ph.D. and what I know. I refer this question to Prime Minister Vukic and expect a quick answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1674	Time. Thank you. No further reports. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending MPs: Sasa Radulovic, Jasmina Nikolic, Jovanovic and Konstantin Arsenovic. The first special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly and the session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly were delivered to you. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the First Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly, held on 9th, 10th and 11th August 2016. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 134 against – one abstention – there is no vote, no vote by 60 MPs, of the total number of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the First Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. I am voting on the minutes of the session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th session, held on 12 August this year. I conclude the vote and I find that there was 137 votes against – no one, abstention – one, did not vote – 58 MPs. I agree that the Assembly adopted the minutes of the session of the First Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. With the call of this session delivered to you, the draft agenda for the session is contained. Before setting out the agenda, we need to consider proposals for reviewing the acts under emergency procedure. The High Council of the Judiciary has proposed to put on the agenda the draft decision on the election of judges who are elected for the first time in a judicial capacity, following an urgent procedure. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 137, v-2, abstention – two, did not vote – 56 MPs. I find that the Assembly has accepted this proposal. The High Council of the Judiciary has proposed putting on the agenda the draft decision on the election of judges first elected as judge since 4 April this year. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for— 136, v—two, abstention—no one, against—60 MPs. I find that the Assembly has adopted this point. The High Judicial Council has proposed putting on the agenda the draft decision on the election of judges elected for the first time in the judicial office since 24 June of this year. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 136, against – two, abstention – no one voted – 60 MPs. I find that the Assembly has adopted this point. The High Judicial Council has proposed putting on the agenda the draft decision on the election of judges elected for the first time in the judicial office since 29 July of this year. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 135, v – two, abstention – no one voted – 61 MPs. I find that the Assembly has accepted the proposal. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic suggested that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to events during the election and post-election process, pressures on state authorities and attempts to fake the national will. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—28, against—no one, abstentioned—no one voted, 170 MPs. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Zdravko Stankovic, proposed to put on the agenda the proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances concerning the destruction of buildings in Belgrade, in the part of the city, known as Savala, on 25 April 2016. I'm putting it to a vote. People's MP, it's an emergency procedure, and that doesn't explain it. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, voted for – 24, 174 MPs. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the proposal. People's MPs, Dr. Sulejman Ugljanin, Enis Imamovic, Cedomir Jovanovic, Zarko Korać, Natasa Micic, Nenad Milic, Nenad Canak, Goran Cabradi, Olena Papuga, Marinika Tepic and Nada Lazic have suggested that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Proposal for a resolution on genocide in Srebrenica. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, v – two, abstention – no one voted – 187 MPs. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested putting the motion for a resolution on crimes in and around Srebrenica from 1992 to 1995 on the urgent procedure. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for five, no one, abstentioned, one, voted - 193 MPs. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the draft law supplementing the Government Act be put on the agenda after an urgent procedure. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—25, v—one, abstention—one, did not vote—172 MPs. I find the Parliament has not accepted the proposal. National MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Slavisa Ristić, Dejan Šulkić, Milan Lapčević, Djordje Vukadinović, Gorica Gajic, Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Milan Ševarlic, Zoran Radojčić, Marija Janjušević, Ivan Kostić proposed to put on the agenda a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the events during the 2016 election process from the day of the Republic elections to the day of publication of the final results of the elections. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, voted for – 38 – 162 MPs. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested putting on the agenda the proposal for a resolution of the National Assembly on the recognition and condemnation of genocide against Armenians committed in the Ottoman Empire between 1915 and 1922. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for –35, against – no one, abstentioned—no one voted—166 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested putting on the agenda the draft law supplementing the Law on Higher Education after an urgent procedure. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 21, against – no one, abstentioned – no one voted – 180 MPs. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the draft law supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 August 2016, should be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 38, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 165 out of 203 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the draft law amending the Law on the financing of political activities, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 August 2016, should be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 183 of the total attendance of 203 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The state's major prosecutors proposed that the draft decision on the election of deputies and public prosecutor, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 9 September 2016, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 138, against – two abstentions – there is no vote, 63 of the total attendance of 203 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov's MP suggested that the draft law amending the Criminal Code, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 12 September 2016, should be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 27, no one, abstentioned - one, voted 175 of the 203 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov's MP suggested that the draft law amending the Law on Agricultural Land, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 12 September 2016, should be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 23, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 180 of the 203 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that, in an urgent procedure, the draft Decision on the Education of the Survey Committee be put on the agenda to determine the facts about the role and responsibility of the highest authorities in the lawless destruction of buildings in the Belgrade-based district of Savamal and the fact of responsibility of the persons who destroyed those facilities, who submitted to the National Assembly on 13 September 2016. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 52, no one, with abstentions, voted 153 of the 205 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the draft law on the suspension of the law on the temporary regulation of the way pensions are paid, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 September 2016. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 45, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 159 of the 204 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that, by emergency procedure, the draft law on the termination of the Law on the establishment of public interest and the special procedures of expropriation and the issue of a building permit for the implementation of the project "Belgrade on Water", which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 September 2016. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 34, no one, with abstentions, voted 170 of the 204 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that, by emergency procedure, the draft law on the termination of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates, which submitted to the National Assembly on 13 September 2016. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for –35, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 167 of the 202 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The Dveri Parliamentary Group proposed that the draft decision on amendments to the election of members and deputy members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 14 September 2016, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 148, no one, with abstentions, voted 56 of the 204 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that, by emergency procedure, the proposal for a law supplementing the Criminal Code, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 September 2016, should be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 25, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 178 of the 203 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov's MP suggested that the draft law on amendments and amendments to the Law on Higher Education, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 19 September 2016, should be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 28, no one, with abstentions, voted 174 of the 202 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov's MP suggested that the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 19 September 2016, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 28, no one, with abstentions, voted 174 of the 202 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The president of the National Assembly, Maja Gojkovic, proposed that the draft decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of the parliamentary Stabilisation and Association Committee, which submitted to the National Assembly on 19 September 2016, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 156, no one, with abstentions, voted 48 of the 204 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group proposed that an urgent procedure be put on the agenda a proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 20 September 2016. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 160, no one, with abstentions, voted 45 out of the 205 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The Serbian Progressive Party MP group proposed that an urgent procedure be put on the agenda a proposal for a decision to amend a decision on the election of members and deputy members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 21 September 2016. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 152, no one, with abstentions, voted 53 out of the 205 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov's MP suggested that the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on textbooks, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 26 September 2016, should be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 25, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 177 of the 202 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda for a decision to suspend the office of President of the Chamber of Commerce in Belgrade from 27 September 2016. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – five, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 196 MPs. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Proposal for a decision to suspend the role of the President of the General Court in Krusevec, which submitted to the Assembly on 27 September. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 200 MPs. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The Group of Liberal-Democratic Party - SDS Sandzak proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Proposal for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 166, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, not 36 MPs. I find that the Assembly has accepted the proposal. National MP Radoslav Milojcic suggested that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Police Act. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: no one, the abstentioned, voted 175 MPs for – 29 against. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Alexander Jerkov, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education, which was submitted on 19 September 2016. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1675	Thank you, Madam President. I have proposed for this session, and I intend to do it in the future, a set of education laws, because I think it's one of the most important things that we in society need to talk about, one of the most important issues that we need to deal with here and one of the most important issues and problems that bother us as a society. Today, a classy confession from a teacher or teacher, who complains that children who spend years at school are becoming less and less intelligent. That's not true. Our children are not unintelligent, but the fact is that our children perform poor results on both internal testing and international testing. The fact is that our children are educated not as thinking people, but as little robots who need to listen to what they're told at school and then reproduce what they're told in school and that only what they're told in school is the fact that our children in schools are trying to place them in some sort of molds, that they're killing every creativity in them, and that the method of learning in our schools is still the standard and old method of learning, where the teacher is behind the cathedral and talking, and the children are sitting and listening. That's why our kids don't know how to reproduce the texts they read. That's why our kids get bad results on all the tests, and that's why our kids come unprepared for colleges, where they're going to have a new kind of problem, because university professors also don't want to change anything, and they don't want to learn anything new about those kids that have to train other kids as some new teachers tomorrow. It's the essence of education reform. That is the essence, not dual education, not whether old students will be extended by a year or two or not, and nobody in this country does. Of course, I don't imagine what I'm proposing is a solution to the problem of our education. We have an education development strategy by 2020, which is phenomenal, which has been done by very serious people, who have devoted themselves to it, and all we need to do is implement what it says in this strategy in what we need to implement in the laws that we adopt. So, I'm asking you at least to talk about this. We don't have to adopt.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1676	Time. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 32, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 170 MPs. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law on the termination of the Law on the determination of public interest and specific procedures for the expropriation and issue of a building permit for the implementation of the project "Belgrade on Water". Does he want a word? The MP's not here. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: no one, the abstentioned, voted 175 MPs for – 26 against. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the point of the draft law on the suspension of the law on the temporary regulation of the way pensions are paid. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 31, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 170 MPs. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a draft law on the termination of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: for -24, against - no one, with abstentions, voted 177 MPs. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the session's agenda be complemented by the item Proposal for a Code Supplement Act. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 20, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 181 MPs. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts about the role and responsibility of the top authorities in the lawless destruction of buildings in Belgrade's Savamal district and to determine the facts of the responsibility of the person who destroyed those facilities. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 41, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 160 MPs. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Aleksandra Jerkov suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the basis of the education and education system. Does he want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1677	Another one of this series of laws that I have proposed, which is partly implemented in what is proposed in the Education Development Strategy by 2020, which has been prepared for years, which has been produced by a commission designed for this purpose and which offers very high quality solutions for what we need in our education. We need active learning. We need a system that will create creative, thinking people, who are critical of the world around them. We need a high-quality classroom. We need teachers who will know how to introduce active learning into schools. We need directors who will not abuse their positions to which political lines have, as a rule, come without restrictions on the duration of the mandate, without legal restrictions on how they do their job, without any control. We need a system that will evaluate what teachers have learned at the endless seminars they are going to, and not only to poke about how many seminars the teacher has, and even this has nothing to do with whether you will advance in the ministry, whether you will have a bigger, lower salary. It takes a system that will motivate teachers to teach some children, which will motivate children to come to school to learn, not to be bored, and we need a system that will value knowledge. We need schools that will again be educational, but also educational institutions, and we need a system that will create conscious citizens of this society who will be able to participate equally tomorrow in a society with practical knowledge that they have acquired during their education, not with what they have learned by heart, and in a month they have forgotten all the material they have had to reproduce. I know, from the relationship of the ruling party to the affairs of the purchased or plagiarized diplomats of large and high-ranking officials, education and knowledge were not appreciated very much. According to reckless statements, to use such a mild term, our prime minister on dual education, we can see that education in the ruling party is not much to think about, but let us agree on this. We don't have to adopt these laws that I propose, but don't let the problem of education come down to whether Vucic thinks he should introduce dual education or not and how long someone has the right to graduate.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1678	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 34, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. The National Parliament of Aleksandra Jerkov proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Agricultural Land. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1679	Thank you. The 7,000 families in Serbia live exclusively on the lease of state agricultural land and process it. The number of families that do not live exclusively on it, but are being leased on state agricultural land, and it represents a significant source of income in the family is even greater. We, by law, passed a certain number of months ago in this assembly, predicted that every municipality in Serbia, with a discretionary assessment, by some transparent decision by the president of the municipality in agreement with the Minister of Agriculture, could give 30% of the agricultural land to one legal or physical person on the basis of some plan that we do not know what it should contain, or whether it should meet certain conditions, what investments it is, whether there is at all an investment, etc., and for a period of 99 years, which you will agree, in fact, in the lives of generations of farmers, everything they are and can deal with. It can be assumed that you, call, investors, and actually selected business partners, will not take a country of poor quality, that they will not take the country of the fourth, fifth, sixth, etc., but will take the best agricultural land that exists in that municipality, and again, I say, by the free choice of the president of the municipality in agreement with the Minister of Agriculture, and we can only guess what these criteria will be when these people decide on who they will assign land to. So, in fact, these people who live on the lease of state agricultural land will be left with either any land or land of extremely poor quality, which means that again because of the selected investors, you will leave the families of farmers with no means to live. We, instead of being defined, propose to conduct a public call procedure, to know who is applying, under which conditions the country gets, which is why it gets the country, which the country can get, that we no longer have selected investors and call investors, that we no longer have the presidents of municipalities that, because of their business partners, take away people's only source of income. That we don't have a situation to really lose 7,000 families without any source of income because of someone's business partner. What I propose has been proposed in the light of the amendments to the adoption of the Agricultural Land Act. You didn't hear about it back then, but here's a chance to make it right.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1680	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -35, against -one, the abstentioned - no, 163 MPs did not vote. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. The National MP, Aleksandra Jerkov, proposed that the agenda be supplemented by the points – Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Code. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1681	Thank you, President. On 9 October 2014, it expires two years that the deadline for the Republic of Serbia to pass a law on missing babies and we are entering the third year of scandalous failure of this European Court of Human Rights ruling for absolutely unknown reasons, and that seems to me to be one of the greatest mysteries for me in the previous term, since this is 30 times how I propose this law, which is why the ruling majority do not want to adopt these additions to the Criminal Code that we propose. For those colleagues who don't know, who are new, and here's a chance for them to support it now, I suggest one very simple thing: that among the crimes that don't go out of date in the Criminal Code, a criminal act is added, so to speak, stealing babies, and actually trafficking people for adoption. It doesn't hurt to adopt anything. If necessary, I will give up this bill and give in to any of the MPs of the ruling majority. If I have to, when there's a debate about this law, I won't answer for a word, if it's considered an opportunity for some kind of political point. It means a lot to these people. Very often, they don't get along the moment they're told the child died, they don't remember. Of course, at that point, nothing seems suspicious to them because they were affected by their incredible accident and only later, when they return the film, they realize that there was something strange about it, that the protocols were not respected, that they did not get all the papers, but it is very often very late for them to react because the object had already become obsolete. Please, if you don't want to talk to me, talk to some of them, so they can tell you what it feels like when they want to seek justice, but then inform them that they can't do it anymore because the case is obsolete. The president had offered some MPs before to consult on this subject. If she doesn't want to offer it, I'm offering to agree, but just let us solve this problem, because these people didn't deserve 30 times in the Serbian Parliament to refuse to adopt one of these laws, which means only what I'm saying now and nothing more.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1682	I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 55, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 139 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Gordana Comic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts of the circumstances that led to a helicopter accident in which seven people were killed. Do you want a word? (Yes) The word is Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1683	Thank you. In March 13, 2015, we were all caught up in the news of a terrible tragedy in which seven people lost their lives and my intention to determine and the circumstances and everyone responsible for this tragedy was created at that moment and will never stop. Two Army reports. One disciplinary punishment of the two generals and the resignation of the prosecution to speak of criminal responsibility gives me the right to demand that responsibility, dialogue and determination of facts be here in this assembly because two important questions that are necessary to know who is responsible are not answered because I doubt anyone can sleep peacefully. Although character is man's destiny. I've already watched people mock other people's deaths, misrepresenting Omer Mehic's death, so I'm not surprised. But our efforts would be shared to form a committee of inquiry with one MP from each parliamentary group who would find answers to two important questions. First, who informed former Defence Minister Bratislava Gasic about the need to save one human life, in this case one baby, anywhere in Serbia? There's no sign of that. He gave the order by oral means by breaking protocols, but missing who gave him the information, key information. Any other information on who was changing the flight plan? Who notified Nikola Tesla Airport that there would be a landing of a military helicopter at the airport? One semi-responsible but unverified information concerned my question from an explanation for the survey board – who informed the false media that the baby was saved and that the rescue mission was successfully completed? Under the law of defense, the Law of the Army, the military is obliged to inform us all in good time and time. No one reacted. Our joint effort to establish their responsibilities would contribute to the rule of law, contribute to the elemental sense of justice for victims and enable all of us to warn anyone who wants to play with their powers, any arrogant, irresponsible one that never does so again and that there will never be a price in Serbia for seven lives for which nobody will obviously answer, except for all of us if we decide to establish this committee of inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1684	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 34, no one, with abstentions, voted 162 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amending the law to finance political activities. You want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1685	Thank you very much. Here I have written in some weird language how to use this scaler. The main point of the proposal is to abolish commercial advertising of political parties in the election campaign. We are witnesses, not only in the last election cycle, but in many before always the ruling parties, regardless of which they were, have a huge advantage in advertising in the commercial part, primarily electronic media, television compared to all the other participants in the election. And those differences are measured times ten times twenty times 100 probably. The abolition of this way of getting to know the public with the political parties and election lists would not harm citizens, as these media, above all, could produce special shows where representatives of political parties and election lists could face attitudes, present their programmes, fight for attention in a suitable debate tomorrow for the vote of Serbian citizens. In this situation that we have today several dozen billion euros, not from private sources but from state sources, it is spent on advertising, on videos that are hardly able to pass any minimum assessment of aesthetic value, moral value or anything in that direction. These are the sums of taxpayers and those who do not have a job and those who live on social donations and those who do not have textbooks in their own language and those who wait for the treatment of their child or their own so that they do not have the money to pay for it. There are many such things that are much more important than the bad commercials of political parties. This is not demagogy, in this proposal, I do not want to accuse the current government, it has happened before, and we all need to make a decision to prevent such a arrogant, primitively non-intentional waste of people's money to advertise our political programmes, for which I repeat there are so many better, more adequate, more civilised ways to declare to the citizens of Serbia than these are bad ads. At least 50% of the EU countries have such rules that prohibit commercial advertising of political parties. I think this parliament can take one big step, save a few dozen million euros of people's money by voting together on a topic that shouldn't be any dilemma among reasonable people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1686	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 34, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1687	And this law has the same theme, not to repeat an explanation. It concerns the same issue of commercial political parties advertising. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1688	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that there are no, 183 MPs, in favour of – 11, against – one, with abstentions. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the agenda be supplemented by the points – Proposal for a law supplementing the Government Act. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1689	This bill introduces a good practice that has so far been applied to the Serbian political public in 2000, i.e. in January 2001, when the first democratic government was formed in the history of this country, the Government of Zoran Djindjic, when he sent all the candidates for ministers to a medical examination that is adequate for the medical examination of all people who want to take part in the state service at an all-responsible place, from the porters, through people who deal with certain tasks that are at the level of official secrecy. All of them must undergo an examination that involves physical and mental health necessary to carry out these tasks. In 2001, Zoran Djindjic applied this without an existing law, but as a proposal for a good custom in the future, to all candidates for ministers for his first government and they passed the review. They got black on white from a medical reference facility, that was then VMA, that they were capable of doing business in the state service. My suggestion is to do it again and now it's up to the law. I think that the behaviour of some representatives of the government not only in the last government, but in the one before it, so perhaps in that and before it, perhaps in some others, has proved that it would be very productive, useful and beneficial for Serbian citizens to give ministers before they sit in the chairs to pass a medical examination. We have examples of helicopters and samamale and a lot of other examples that you probably know better than I do, because people who are closer to you than me, where it's absolutely clear, healthy, and probably experts would confirm it, they can't do that to people who are healthy, they're physically, they're psychic. That's why I think it's a good thing. Of course, it would apply to any future government, to any situation where some colleagues who are now closely following me are in a position to be ministers or some who will never be in that position again, but will then be able to check whether their political opponents who then adopt power will be able to do their job in a sound manner. Serbian citizens in the last ten years, perhaps more day-to-day witnesses that this proposal is highly justified. I invite you to give your support to my proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1690	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 43, against – there is no vote of 146 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Higher Education.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1691	Thank you. It's an old proposal that was withdrawn, so in the same text returned to the procedure and regarding academic congratulation. It concerns what pains many people in Serbia who cannot afford to raise their children, to invest in their education and education, to deny many things that these children would get diplomas that are not only necessary for the use of paper, but rather, that these diplomas are a testimony to their knowledge which these children have come to as a basis for living in this difficult 21st century full of temptation. In parallel, we have in the last ten years a flood of something called forgeries, which is usually a crime. This is not just a moral flaw, but a crime in the legal sense of words, where the mass of people with diplomats you can practically get from a photocopier shop without some great effort, these diplomas are used to be "qualified" to perform the highest state functions either as officials or as officials. We have a lot of examples for that. Everyone knows of the country's president, Interior Minister, mayor of Belgrade's already mentioned example. There's as many as you want. It's something that's inadmissible and because of the people who voted for the ruling party, who also have children, whose children are also smart, valuable, came up with some knowledge, but then now or with that knowledge and with that diploma waiting in some hallway to be admitted and opened up that bright future or hired in the state service not because they're smart, but because they had a relationship with someone who has a falsified diploma. It's something that's a matter of our country's future. Of course, whoever did this should be on his cheek, let it concern his morals. Of course, those involved should be properly punished, but it is much more important that we prevent such things from happening in the future. Children in Serbia need to know that they are studying not because of a paper called diploma, but because of knowledge, without the diploma being part of a photocopiery, but that the diploma is a certificate of someone's knowledge. Please do this to get...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1692	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1693	... Takes off...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1694	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 29, v-one, with abstentions – no, 155 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law on planning and arrangement of space and settlements.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1695	The problem of planning and building is a chronic disease of this country. Efforts are constantly being made to overcome the problem. We had a law of law a few months ago that was supposed to be this miracle wand that would change the situation in that area and was announced as a miracle that would solve all our problems in that area. Of course, that didn't happen. Of course, we still don't have an adequate law on planning and construction, because if we had it, we wouldn't have it if today we had lawless facilities everywhere in Serbia, whether you took a tunnel that cut off an oak several hundred years old, whether you had "Belgrade on water". We had the mayor of Belgrade Mali last night or before last, the mayor of Belgrade, who said that building permit, so that's irrelevant and that's the essence of our problem. The bill, which is the work of experts, which I have signed, is practically the best theoretical and practical experience of what Serbian science and profession in the area offers. It relies largely on a similar law that was passed in 2003, which was meant to break the ugly practice of illegal construction. Irregular construction is, by the way, a group of words that can't be translated into foreign languages. In Germany and England, people don't understand what illegal construction is. You can't say that in any language, except in Serbian or perhaps in some language in our environment. In the 2003 law and this bill, the start of construction without a building permit followed by a building permit and everything that goes after it is a crime. One who stabs a shovel, i.e. an Ash in a country without a building permit, commits a crime and gets arrested immediately. This means that a few months ago, Alexander Vukic and his centuries-old friend from the UAE would have been arrested when they started building something called "Belgrade on Water", under water or I don't know who's already on it. Without it, we will be a country where there will be no investment, as there is no investment today, unless these investments are based on holes in the law, on lex specialities, on special conditions for special people who are in special relations with some special officials of this country who have not passed a doctoral examination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1696	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – ten, against – one, with abstention – no, 172 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a proposal for a resolution of the National Assembly on the recognition and condemnation of genocide against Armenians committed in the Ottoman Empire between 1915 and 1922. Do you want to explain?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1697	Thank you very much. I've been able to appeal to my colleagues several times to vote in favour of the motion for that resolution. Question-- why Armenians? Question – why now? Because we as a people have had a lot of situations when we were part of something that might, I don't know if legally, but in a Colloquial way, to call it genocide, and I don't need that memory of history. These historical facts are not a question of whether someone is in this party or that party, whether they are falsely represented as a nationalist or a patriot, or falsely representing themselves as a cosmopolitan or a European. That's the facts. People were deprived of life outside any law, beyond any rule of war or any rule of life against both the Bible and the Koran and against the Talmud and against the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, against anything that had to do with human beings. Half the world has condemned the genocide of Armenians and Russia and America and China and France. There are a few countries left that haven't done it. The proposal was made last year when it was, I mean, a hundred-year-old event, but that doesn't mean it's past the deadline now. We can do it today. This has nothing to do with our foreign-political relations with Turkey today. Turkey of this time has nothing to do with Turkey at the time of the genocide of Armenians. So it doesn't have any day-to-day political connotation, but it has rules that when something goes wrong, whether it happened yesterday or 100 years ago, whether it happened to us or to someone else, whether it happened to a potential friend or to an enemy, whether it happened to someone under quotes of good intentions or not. This is a good opportunity for Serbia to stand by these countries that have made this moral commitment, and I think it would be good for Serbia in the future and today that with much more rights we are looking for an adequate condemnation of what happened to the citizens of Serbia, to Serbs and to all others living in these areas in the immediate past or any further past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1698	Thank you. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 28, against – no one with abstentions has voted – 154 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling board to determine the facts and circumstances regarding the destruction of buildings in Belgrade in the part of the city known as Savala on 25 April 2016. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1699	Thank you, President. Dear fellow MPs, this proposal was tabled in the June 6th Assembly, so three months ago. Unfortunately, the proposal suggested that a congregation committee be formed that would like to answer several questions and, unfortunately, for these three months, how many congregations were not in the regular session and that there was no way to discuss this agenda item, there is no such answer. During that time, we had countless interventions from the very top of the government, from full denial in the first days after April 25th that any incident had occurred, to the fact that complete idiots were doing so, through the fact that people were responsible for it at the top of the city government. When we were expecting a final break-up, there was a pain in the ass. It's been a long time since justice has been once felt that the state's authorities should do their job and that the prosecution is doing their job. However, there is no answer to what the prosecution is doing and whether it is working on the case at all, which the prosecutor is in charge and when the case is launched. That is why I believe that the involvement of the Assembly on this matter is necessary and I suggest that a committee of inquiry be formed. The Committee of Auditors would naturally act as representatives of all parties, what is the custom, and according to our proposal, should answer several questions – what have the competent authorities done to identify the identity of masked persons who, under the threat of applying physical force, prevented citizens from moving, seized the means of communication, violently treated citizens, and allowed the destruction of several objects by various machines in Savala on the night between 24th and 25th April 2016? What have the authorities done to determine the identity of the commanders of this action? Why and on whose orders did the police not comply with the law, because they refused to respond to calls from citizens who were sent to the police that night, who sought protection under the law and the Constitution, but who refused those calls, or referred citizens to the Communist Police, whose not jurisdiction? All these questions require answers and I urge you to form a committee of inquiry to finally reach them.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1700	Thank you. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 25, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 156 MPs. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Culture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1701	Thank you, President. Dear fellow MPs, as far as you've been following the current course of the session, and we've been working here for about an hour, setting the agenda for the first session of the regular session, we're going to be discussing a single law if we don't do something. The government of the Republic of Serbia has in two months, as far as it is formed, proposed one law, amendments and additions, a law of two members. I invite you to listen carefully to me and my colleagues from the SDS-National Movement of Serbia in the coming minutes, because we have prepared proposals for more than 20 laws and we think that the Assembly deserves to work, achieves that first of its fundamental role as prescribed by the Constitution, which is the adoption of the law. We should, of course, also do law enforcement control, control of the executive authority, but we don't do even the first, most fundamentally – law-making, because the law that we have decided so far to discuss quite safely after a seven-month break, as far as Parliament has not worked, is not adequate. The first of the laws I'm going to talk about today are amendments to the Culture Act. The law was passed at the end of the previous term, at the beginning of this year and, in our view, completely unwarranted from this law is as a cultural activity no art photography is included. We think it's bad. Even then, in the debate, we proposed an amendment that would change that. Of course, most of them didn't adopt at the time, but there are some other MPs here now, and I believe that if we opened the debate and re-crossed the arguments, I believe that the MPs would now accept that the artistic photography is also found in the description of cultural activities. The second intervention we had in this law concerns national recognitions in culture, or one subject that was at the time in public about whether or not these recognitions should exist, is ultimately decided to remain, but in exceptional cases, as the law states. We believe that, in any case, when a top artist gets a prize on an international plan, the state should ensure that he has a national pension, as it is said. I invite you to open the debate, so that we do not get the case as with academic Dejan Despic, who has returned his prize, offended that the state makes a difference between cultural workers and athletes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1702	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. By the way, I gave the Minister your bill to plead. I conclude the vote: for—17, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted—162 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Sector Payments System. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1703	Thank you, Mr. President. Fellow MPs, and this law was passed at the end of the previous term, although its entry into force is practically due to begin from January 1st next year. Of course, that was then explained to us that it was a condition for reviewing the agreement with the IMF. At that time, in the debate, we said that the law contained a number of discriminatory solutions, an unfair solution that would further reverse the position of public sector employees. What we can do is, in these few months before the law comes into force, change these bad things and make sure that public sector employees are not discriminated against, that employment and public sector work are not demotive and that the best personnel are leaving the public sector because in this case the whole idea of implementing reforms and the accelerated European path of Serbia and Serbia's modernisation will not be feasible. I wonder, here, if the consequence of the government's two months of work having only one bill of law, of two members, is that there is no state administration, with the government, with the ministries, enough motivated people to work on the bill's proposals. I will remind you of the many laws that have been adopted for the negotiating chapters that have been opened, waiting to be adopted by the end of 2016, in 2017 and 2018, we do not have any of these laws in the Assembly until today. To avoid public sector employees being demoted, we have proposed amendments and additions concerning several things. First of all, the thing that was the main motive for the adoption of this law is that the correcting of different levels of pay for public sector employees is not solved because of the basic thing that public enterprises are not involved in this law. This law, as adopted, does not apply to public enterprises, and we think it is bad, that it should also apply to public enterprises and to the National Bank of Serbia and to public media services. We ask that this law be expelled from the adoption of new special laws because this law itself is a lex specialis and the adoption of new lex specialis is bad. There are other things. If you adopt this bill, we will discuss it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1704	Thank you. Time. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 171 out of the 178 MPs present. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic proposed a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Financial Support to the family with children to supplement the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1705	Thank you. I will again appeal to all colleagues to consider this law in particular and put it on the agenda because it concerns a very important topic, which is the topic of Serbia's future. You know that without new babies, new people born in our country, we can't even think about her future. Every day and again these days, the focus of the public is disastrous numbers that show the country's poor attitude towards future generations. We suggest, through changes and additions to this law, a few measures that will change that. We hear all sorts of announcements, but I'm afraid it's going to remain inconclusive, and I think the debate on this law, as we have suggested, or we suggest that we put it on the agenda and talk about it, can change some things. This law, among other things, has never been on the agenda in the Assembly in the last five years, as this majority has formed, although much has been said about it. What are the consequences today? What's the status? Today, the number of poor in Serbia is twice as high as four years ago. There are 30% of the children among those poor. Today, only 25% of children in Serbia are entitled to a child's allowance, although 15 years ago that number was 50%. We have proposed several measures that should increase the number of children's allowance users as a basic measure of support for families with children. This aid is small today, and it is received by an insufficient number of children, for several reasons that we have identified and which we want to change by this law. First of all, it's a huge administrative, bureaucratic procedure that families with children need to achieve to achieve in general the right to a child's allowance. On the other hand, there are many obstacles in the law and in practice that do not respect the situation in real life. Today, a large number of single parents do not receive support from another parent, the number of alimony that is not paid is huge, the state does nothing on this issue, and on the other hand, this alimony, which exists as a right, is not realised on paper. Because it does not come true, because it exists on paper and cannot be realized, today is a devastating fact that one third of single parents live in a household with less than 10,000 dinars of income per household head and we believe that this has to change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1706	Time. Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 166, out of the 179 MPs present as a whole. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - draft law amending the Law on Public Media Services.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1707	Thank you, President. When we adopted changes last year and the additions of the public media service happened, of course, not unexpectedly and not for the first time and certainly not, unfortunately, for the last time, that the prime minister and his party failed once again their promises, which is that there will be a abolished fee on the count and again after two years, when that promise of not being a tax on an electric number for the financing of the public service will be reintroduced. Of course, it was introduced in a hurry, overnight, in order to discuss as little as possible through inadequate changes and additions to the law. So today from the beginning of the year when, contrary to that long-old promise that it will be abolished, citizens have set out again to pay a fee of 150 dinars, corresponding to the letter of the law, all those who have an electric number have become bonds, but in every electric number that is based on them, so citizens pay taxes for public service and on the number of the garages and the numbers in the cottages or in some auxiliary rooms and, unfortunately, the law did not provide for the possibility to release taxes, meaning, the law says, there are old solutions, that persons with disabilities, the poorest pensioners and other categories can be freed from paying taxes, but cannot be free from the fees of the one who has an electric number that leads to an auxiliary facility, garage or something like that. Our proposal to change and supplement is very simple – that the payment obligation only has a person who is the beneficiary of the electricity criterion on the housing unit where he has a registered residence. We think it is important to adopt this amendment and the supplement, especially given that it is announced that there will be no restriction already next year and that the tax will not be paid in the amount of 150 dinars, but will probably be returned to the maximum amount of the 500 dinar bill, as agreed with the IMF or with which other tax is not known. We think that such a blow, as citizens daily experience new blows to their wallet from this government, they will not be able to endure. I urge you to vote and discuss this law, to adopt it. Mr. President, I'd like to ask you to set the quorum before the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1708	Please determine the quorum. Put in the cards. We have no quorum, 99 MPs. Two-minute break. I ask the MPs to come down to the O.R. to continue our work. I'm asking the heads of parliament to invite the MPs down to the O.R. so we can continue our work and establish our agenda. [[After a break.]] We have a quorum, 128. We put the bill to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against – 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda of the session be complemented by points – draft law on the proposed law. Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1710	Thank you, President. Dear fellow MPs, this law of a strange name, we put the procedure in progress for the first time in the past when a bad practice was ensnared in parliament. The final number of last National Assembly meetings is that 54% of the laws adopted have been passed by emergency procedure. No public debate has been conducted in most of these cases. The public, which includes all laws and laws, and each of the laws of one part of the citizens to a lesser or greater extent, has a number of citizens of Serbia concerned and has a direct impact, had no knowledge of what was coming. That's why it happened, not a small number of times that laws are passed several times. A few months after the adoption, we had to adopt amendments and additions only because when the law was first passed, no quality public debate was implemented and it was not possible for the general public and interested to make their views known and make their proposals. This law should solve those problems. We have an idea, we're ready to hear every opinion and make one deal. The way you've been working lately isn't good. It is used that there is no clear procedure for the adoption of the law. They use, to say, the gaps in the law they say - can by emergency procedure if an explanation is given, and this explanation in most cases is completely non-sustainable. In no way does he give a reason why a law would be adopted by an emergency procedure. I think it is in the interest of all of us to raise Parliament's reputation as the most important democratic institution in one country, it would help in the extreme line and European integration, because the fact that the largest number of laws, more than half, adopted by an emergency procedure, has resulted in a negative assessment in the European Commission's reports measuring the progress of the Republic of Serbia. That is why I call on you to put this bill on the agenda, to consider these solutions, or to give a second one in order for Parliament to imitate the democratic procedure, the greater public, the greater transparency and the greater quality of our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1711	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for nine. 139 MPs did not vote. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – the draft law on the suspension of the law on temporary adjustment of the way the pension is paid.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1712	Thank you, Mr President, dear fellow MPs, this month will be two years after the Law was passed on the temporary arrangement of the way in which the pension was paid. We have criticised the adoption and implementation of such a law many times, first of all, because we consider it to be deeply unfair. He is that he is illegal, unconstitutional, but above all unfair. In one part, Serbia's oldest citizens alienated their property, according to the constitution, because the pension of property, acquired law and reduced it in a number, that pension of 10% to 25%. Maybe we could have respected the arguments when the law was passed, in a state-of-the-art state-of-the-art financial situation that didn't arise because of pensioners and because of the fact that they've spent their entire working life in law enforcement paying and segregating money into a pension fund. I don't think there's any reason for that today. At the end of the line we listen daily, unfortunately not in parliament, because parliament has practically not worked for several months. We're hearing about how the Republic of Serbia's budget is in surplus, so there's money. We think it's the last time that the injustice that was done two years ago when this law was passed is corrected. And not to offer pensioners some false hope or story of an increase of 1% or 2% at the end of the year when we see how much this increase will be granted to us by the IMF, but to correct that injustice, to return the money that was taken from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the oldest citizens, to return the pension level to the level that was two years ago. That the difference in outstanding pensions this country pays them over the next year with a pension. And then if there really is so much more money in the budget, you think about a further increase for all pensioners, including those who were kidnapped two years ago by as much as realistic and as possible. I call on you to listen to the prime minister, the finance minister who praises the Republic of Serbia's budget so much and to correct this injustice in order to restore the confidence of Serbian citizens that Serbia is a legal and, above all, a fair state.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1713	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, with abstentions, has voted for – 16, for – 16. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a law supplementing the law on added value. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1714	Dear fellow Members, this is one of the laws that is also a long series, I think, for more than a year, so we tried to put more sessions on the agenda and draw your attention to the fact that if there is no one else we can help families with small children, newborns in Serbia. Unfortunately, we haven't received your support every time, and I think today these amendments and additions to this law are so much that we need to talk about them, given that we see through the media that the government is announcing the measure that you've always justified why this should not be adopted. In fact, according to our law, there is a right to return VAT and whenever we talked about that VAT rate for baby food, which is the essence of this law should be reduced from 20% to 10% the answer was – so there is a right to return VAT. Unfortunately, it is now announced that the right is abolished, justifying the burden of the Tax Administration, which has a lot of work to do and I don't know how with such justification and with such a country's attitude towards the citizens of the Republic of Serbia we can even think about Serbia's future. How are we going to encourage people to start families and give birth to more and more babies in these families? And I call on you to adopt this law and show the government that if it has the intention of not taking care of Serbia's future, and that we here in parliament want to take care of it, this amendment and supplementation the only time we could talk about it was when the VAT law was adopted and supplemented, when the minister himself was old and present and said that it was possible, but that it requires a little more administration. Well, if the right to return VAT is already announced because of the great administration, I call on you to burden the IRS with such little administration, to determine one category of baby food, to define what belongs to that category, and to tax baby food at a lower VAT rate, as is the case with 14-15 other goods or services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1715	Thank you. We put this proposal to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for the vote – 15, against – no one with abstention – voted 142 of the total number of 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session's agenda be complemented by the draft law amending and supplementing the Safety and Health Act at Work. Here you go. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: No. Don't you? Okay. Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I beg your pardon. I am concluding the vote and I am saying: for the vote – 11, against – no one with abstention – voted 140 of the 156 MPs present. This proposal was not accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda be complemented by the point of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act. Do you want a word? (Marco Djurisic, from the place: No) No? Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that the vote was – 11, against – no one with abstention – voted 145 out of the 156 MPs present. This proposal was not accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be supplemented by a point under the same name, but since 16 September 2016. Do you want a word? (Marco Djurisic, from the place: No) No? Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for the vote – 12, against – no one with abstention – has voted 144 of the total 156 MPs present. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the point of the draft law supplementing the Health Insurance Act. Do you want a word? (Marco Djurisic, from the place: No) No. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that the vote was – 11, against – no one with abstention – voted 145 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National Zdravko Stankovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Enterprises. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1716	I thank the chairman. Given that it is necessary and clear to lay down rules that will guarantee the depolitisation of public enterprises and ensure professionalism and efficiency in the work of public enterprises, and thus ensure the performance of the general interest by the highest standards. This proposal for a law is complemented or amended by providing for the erasure of the provisions under which a public undertaking could establish a capital company to carry out an activity that is not an activity of general interest. The Law on Public Enterprises, which provides for a deadline for which the Government, the competent authority, the AP, the unit of local self-government must provide agreement at the request of the Supervisory Board, i.e. a failure of consent, is considered to be adjudicating consent. In particular, Article 22 provides for the founder to give consent to very significant decisions of the supervisory board's acts, such as status changes, the establishment of other workers, the investment of capital, the distribution of profits, the way in which the loss is covered. An absolute ban on political party membership, the performance of any function in the political party's body when it comes to public enterprise directors, is foreseen. According to the existing solution, the possibility of a standstill in the political party's performance is foreseen. In order to complete the department, it is necessary that the ban be absolute character. The Director and the Executive Director can only exercise the right to stimulate when a public firm earns profits in business. The amendments to the law stipulates that a public enterprise can only have one executive director, except for a company that is the founder of the Republic of Serbia that can have up to three, unlike the existing law where there can now be up to seven executive directors. The proposed change stimulates the departisation of public enterprises and reduces the cost of the austerity measure. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Public Enterprises provide for the departisation of public enterprises and greater transparency on the selection of public enterprises. The introduction of stricter conditions for directors in terms of work experience creates conditions for more efficient work and raising standards in the work of public enterprises. At the same time, a number of proposed provisions should lead to savings in the work of public enterprises, bringing it into the overall savings and microeconomic stabilisation measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1717	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that the vote was – 11, against – no one with abstention – voted 145 out of the 156 MPs present. No proposal accepted. National MP Zdravko Stankovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the point of the draft law amending the Law on textbooks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1718	Thank you. The legislative change that we propose makes it easier to fulfil the constitutional obligation, compulsory attendance of primary school and will also prevent the deterioration of the standard of living of families that allocate significant resources for textbooks. Since a significant number of families cannot be achieved according to existing legal solutions, the right to state aid in relation to the procurement of textbooks, since it does not fall within the statistical category of materially endangered families, and the fact that it is the opposite. The implementation of this law requires additional resources to be determined by the Ministry of Finance and the Competent Ministry of Education. If the Constitution establishes an obligation to attend a primary school, such obligation becomes the highest ranking obligation and thus the state is obliged to create all conditions and such an obligation is met without additional burden. I cannot impose any other burden on parents, or creators, and thus make it difficult to fulfill this obligation. Therefore, we suggest that basic school textbooks must be free of charge for all students regardless of their parents ’ material condition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1719	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for the vote – 12, against – no one with abstention – voted 146 out of the 158 MPs present. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Zdravko Stankovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the definition of public interest and special procedures for expropriation, the issue of a civil permit for the realisation of the project "Belgrade on Water". Here you go. Do you want a word? (Zravko Stankovic, from the place: No) No? Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and I declare that the vote was – 11, against – no one, with abstention – voted 148 of the total number of 159 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Zdravko Stankovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by the point of the draft law amending the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1720	Thank you. We have proposed amending this Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. The Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance was amended on 1 August 2014. That law reduced health insurance rates at the expense of increasing rates and contributions to pension insurance, with a reason, if you remember then the finance minister that there are other sources of funds in the health care sector from which it is necessary to finance that large savings can be made. At that time, we have reduced the health insurance rate that fills the republican budget, the Republic Fund by 12.2% to 10.2% and retired from 24% to 26%, to reduce the doping of regular pension payments from the budget by about 300 million. What does that look like in numbers? In 2014, the Council adopted The Republic Health Insurance Fund, which had a budget planned for 230 billion dinars, which is over two billion and 100m euros, following this reduction in the planned budget for 2015 and 2016, is down to 215, down to over 7%, what is interesting in the real financing of the Republic Health Insurance Fund is a reduction from 156 or 156.9 billion in 2014 to 125.3 billion, almost 15%. We have the same number of users who use the services of the Republic Fund and the same number of employees whose salaries are financed from that. What is interesting, in addition to these reductions, the Republic Fund is obliged to pay about 10.5 billion per article 22 under the Health Insurance Act for all those for whom the Republic is obliged to pay contributions to health insurance, which are unemployed, socially endangered, so that I do not now list who all the other users are. What's provided for in the Republic budget is about 600 million. Please consider this proposal and return the money for the treatment of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1721	Thank you. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – 11 MPs. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. Ambassador Goran Bogdanovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by the draft law amending the Law on Public Order and Peace.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1722	Thank you, Madam President. Dear People's MPs, as you know, the Law on Public Order and Peace came into force on 5 February 2016 and then, and we now point to the lack of that law, and for this reason we propose a change, first of all, in Article 22. The law of public order and peace. As is known, the Law on Public Order and Peace is the subject of a law that has been established, among other things, by regulating public order and peace in public places and against public order and peace. The law further states that the competent authorities of the MUP, the municipal police, the inspection authorities and other competent authorities are within their jurisdiction. Given what's been going on in the last few months, first of all with the municipal police, where she literally abused her position and her authority, we came up with the idea to suggest that article 22 be deleted, i.e. Insulting the official in carrying out his official duties. I'll just remind you, honourable MPs, that by intervention, first of all, the municipal police, we even had a violation of human rights, we even had one case with more serious consequences, unfortunately, which reflected primarily on people who work or sell, better say, on the streets. In short, I will tell you what the reasons for such a thing are, because, above all, eradicating an existing member who has been defined in an unacceptable way by us, and whose interpretation is left from case to case, as shown by the existing practice of the previous months, does nothing that would limit the official's work and make them in any way inferior to potential perpetrators of the offence. Maybe one of you here will wonder why we're asking you to delete this member. I will remind you, honourable Members of the people, that the provisions of other laws regulate to a sufficient extent the authority of an official in such cases. For this reason, I ask you to support this law, because simply, this is the only way to stop the unmigrants that happened a few months ago, not only here on the streets of Belgrade, but throughout Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1723	Thank you. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: for -13, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 147 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Goran Bogdanovic proposed supplementing the agenda with the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1724	Thank you, Madam President. Dear People's MPs, too, analyzed the effects of the Law on Public Assembly, we came, i.e. We've seen, better say, a few weaknesses, and we want to do this through the National Assembly to re-improve this law, even though when this law was passed, I repeat, by submitting amendments, we wanted to correct the shortcomings in that law. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Public Assembly are guaranteed to achieve a greater degree of freedom of assembly, especially in terms of trade union action, because freedom of assembly is the basis of every democratic society, and trade union action is a guarantee of protection of the interest of the economically weaker parties in socioeconomic, economic and labour and legal relations, and it is necessary to create conditions in which these freedoms can be achieved in full scope. For this reason, we are asking for a change, above all, in Article 3, 6, 13, where we would also add Article 13a and Article 14. I'll be here briefly, as long as it allows me to explain what we want with it. Here at Article 13, for example, by erasing the word "social" it comes out to union representatives and all employees who at some point want to show dissatisfaction. It is necessary for democratic principles, elemental justice to allow people to gather, in order to show their dissatisfaction with the current situation in which they are located and any obstacle in this way is eliminated. As for Article 6, and then we have submitted amendments and it is absolutely unacceptable for us to say that there are objective reasons or better to say there are no objective reasons why it would strictly prohibit gathering or showing dissatisfaction in front of pre-school and school institutions, because this is how employees are prevented from expressing their dissatisfaction and to indicate their status. You have a situation that, for example, many teachers, many educators are not satisfied primarily with their salaries or their relationship to their management or better to tell the directors. I don't see why they have to gather in a special place, not in front of a school or a child institution. We also add articles 13 and 13a here. So, a clear definition of the place of gathering, without reporting, in this case of Nikola Pasic Square, if you remember, the MPs who were here, we, and then as the SDS parliamentary group, insisted that there could be no meetings in that square, only by notifying the competent authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1725	Time. Thank you. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 145 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Goran Bogdanovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - a bill amending the Law on corporate tax. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1726	Thank you, Madam President. Dear People's MPs, I also proposed this law in the last term, because we believe that the Law on corporate tax, where by two years ago the rate was 10%, by the arrival of the new Government in 2014, the government increased the rate of profits to legal persons of 15%. Analyzing these effects, we noticed that there was no improvement at all or any progress or some gain or benefit for the budget. For this reason, we ask that the profit tax rate return to 10% again, because this would in some way represent a discharge of the real sector from a high profit tax rate, and this would also be an additional impulse to attract foreign investment, but also to increase the business activity of the domestic real sector. Thus, the law amending the Law on corporate income tax will create conditions for the real sector, companies, cooperatives and other market participants to be taxed through a reduction in the tax rate on the profit of legal persons by 10%. This will also imply a reduction in the unemployment rate, as lower rates of corporate income tax have been shown to stimulate the opening and operation of new businesses, including employment. I think whoever followed economic development in all transition countries saw that, let's say, in all these countries, tax evasion was reduced and thus increased in some way and GDP, and thus increased the employment rate. I don't have the illusion that this is just the only economic measure that can increase GDP or affect fiscal consolidation, but just reducing the profit tax rate from 15 to 10% will not solve all the structural problems of our economy, but can be an important fiscal instrument for the recovery and growth of our economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1727	Thank you. Before I put it to the vote, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, I'd like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 6:00 p.m. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – 11 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Bogdanovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Information and Media. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1728	Madam President, honourable MPs, another law that we have criticised in the previous session of parliament as well. When I say we criticized, that's where we insisted on improving this law. You all know that the Law on Public Information and the media has been in force since 13 August 2014. Its adoption under a set of media laws has announced a major reform shift. That's where we agreed in part, but we also agreed then, and even now, when I say we, I mean the SDS Group, we had objections. I will just remind you that the Anti-Corruption Council published a report on the ownership structure and control of the media in Serbia as early as February 2015. Although the report deals with the situation in the media regarding ownership structure and control over a period preceding the adoption of media laws, the Council still referred to the very report on a solution in the new law we are proposing. In the Council's view and in our opinion, there are in practice options that hold less than 5% of the shares in the issuer's ownership structure, and they exercise effective control over editorial policy as sources of funding for multiple media at the same time. This is actually the main reason why we are proposing today to amend the Law on Public Information, because we believe that the existing solution that is predicted is not adequate and for this reason we are asking that owners too. those who have shares in the media and less than 5% enter the owner's register. If this is not done, then space is opened for manipulation and abuse, and I do not guarantee enough transparency, first of all, ownership structures and creates conditions for influence and social flows through the media. Therefore, Article 1 of this Bill proposes to amend Article 39 paragraph 8 where all owners, direct, indirect, regardless of the level of share in the founding capital of the issue, are scheduled to enter in the Register of Media, as opposed to the solution provided for by the owners of more than 5% of the shares. I expect, honourable MPs, and I think it should be the interest of all of us, first of all, given the problems that exist in the media and what problems...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1729	Time. Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – 11 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1730	Thank you, Your Honor, the President. Dear fellow MPs, the debate so far on the agenda has shown the level of democracy and parliamentaryism, in general, because many of the laws that have been proposed to complement them concern the daily lives of our citizens and many of them are favoured by the government of the Republic of Serbia. Since the MPs did not get a warrant to vote for it, it remains for another time. I will propose laws that I consider necessary to make an amendment. One of them is the law amending the Law on Local Self-Government and establishing local communities. So so far, the legislative regulations, as well as the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, provide for the right of citizens to the province and local self-government that they exercise directly through their freely elected representatives. However, this objective and purpose is not fully met and local self-government and local self-government, according to current legal solutions, cannot be fully adequate to meet all those needs of citizens, for several reasons. One of them certainly is the mandatory form of organisation in the local community. Therefore, the law stipulates that local communities are necessarily formed in rural settlements, but not in urban settlements, as well as other serious problems are the means for the work of local communities that are not precisely defined. That is why we propose to amend Article 8 where the mandatory establishment of local communities is required. So the word “can ” is deleted. In Article 72, local communities are also established for urban settlements. In Article 74, up to 100 locals can make direct decisions on the issues to be decided in the local community. Most importantly, Article 75(1) adds that part of the property tax, which is determined by the decision on the budget of the municipality, i.e. the city is redistributed to local communities, amounting to 80% of the local communities, and 20% of the municipality's budget, and for urban settlements, i.e. urban local communities, we have 20% of the funds charged in that territory. This would mean that we have fiscal decentralisation, that local communities have their own sources of funding, have greater importance and have greater independence, as organisational forms with which citizens first meet in contact with the state of Serbia. I invite you to accept this because I think it is important for all of us who live in Serbia today.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1731	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 14, against – 145 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments to the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1732	Thank you. So, in light of what is happening with the IPAR programme, as well as with the situation in agriculture which has been catastrophic for many years, farmers are barely putting an end to the end and, besides being a branch that records the surplus in the external trade, we still don't realize that by investing in agriculture they get state, they get farmers, and then we're talking about how there's not enough funds to increase the agricultural budget, which is small. With 250m to 300m euros a year, agriculture cannot develop, nor has one of the developed agricultural countries succeeded. So if we want to develop this branch of agriculture, we have to invest more significant funds for it. It's not an argument that there's no money. The argument is that we do not allocate them as it should be, or by priority, we do not see exactly where these funds should be spent, so in the end, if only one part of the funds spent on the "Belgrade on Water" project were directed to the economy, we would certainly have far greater results, both in terms of employment and in terms of Serbia's economic development. We propose that in the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development in Article 15(4), milk premiums, milk premiums are raised from seven to 10 dinars. Also, we suggest that, for plant production, in Article 18, six to a minimum of eight thousand be raised by a hectare, as if in article 31 from six thousand dinars to eight thousand dinars to raise the regress for fertilizer and seed. It's very small, but it shows good faith that we're ready to help our farmers. Today, our farmers are making milk premiums for seven dinars. We protect them with levies and customs. We cannot expect to export without the customs duties of our fruit and vegetables and our other agricultural products to the Russian Federation and the EU market, if we are closing ourselves. So we need to strengthen our farmers and we need to pinken their ability to be competitive. The milk premium in EU countries is 24 euros or 30 dinars, which means that the moment we lift the levies, our milk producers will be in serious trouble how to deal with EU competition on their own domestic market. And they won't launch any magical solutions for us, neither will the Germans, not even Arabs, will be launched by our producers, but we have to support them. I therefore propose that this bill be supported in order to raise the premiums in the Agricultural Incentives Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1733	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 14, against – 146 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the points – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government. Do you want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1734	Thank you. So, the Law on Local Self-Government determines the competences of all local self-government in Serbia and I would point to one real need and I think most of them will agree with me today, and that is the possibility of local self-government to scholarship their students and students. Namely, the Law on Local Self-Government has defined jurisdiction, but it is not explicitly stated that local self-government is regulated and secures the scholarship of students and students and therefore we propose to add Article 16a, which says that local self-government regulates and secures the scholarship of students and students. In fact, amendments to the Law on Student and Student Standard provide for the possibility of local self-government to be able to scholarship students and students, but this is not in the Law on Local Self-Government. The presidents of the municipality and the mayors face objections and grudges from the DRI, that we do not have the right to scholarship our students and students from the territory of units of local self-government. I think it is in this light of the state of discompliance with education with the needs of the economy in the light of the 32,000 people leaving Serbia annually, in light of the fact that we are another country in the world by the number of highly educated personnel leaving Serbia. I think it should be possible for local self-governments to assess and scholarship those of their fellow citizens who achieve great and significant results. So this is one very important thing. I don't think it matters who proposes it, whether it's the government or the opposition. I hope that you will agree with me because it is one of our own need, in order to allow these people to have more reason to, when they complete their education and their education or stay in the places where they live or return to them after schooling and continue to develop their city and that part of Serbia. So if we don't do that and if young people continue to leave smaller cities and smaller communities, we're going to get into a situation where certain cities will die away from us, that we're going to have more and more centralization and centralism. What is even more dangerous, we will still have problems and we will face the departure of young people who will seek their future in some of the developed European countries. So, I suggest you pass this law so that we can give authority to local self-government, that they can assist and scholarship students and students in their territory in accordance with legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1735	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I hereby conclude the vote and find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miroslav Aleksic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on corporate tax, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Miroslav Aleksic want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1736	I thank the chairman. Therefore, this law supplementing the Law on corporate income tax should actually remove differences and discrimination in terms of tax reliefs that can bring about large legal entities in relation to those small and medium-sized enterprises. Therefore, the Profit Tax Act provides for certain reliefs, but only for those who invest larger capital and employ 100 and more workers cumulatively. That is why I believe it is necessary for the law to allow both small and medium-sized enterprises to receive legal relief if employed by workers regardless of the number of employees. We have a situation where our businessmen, domestic businessmen, who want to invest to further expand their capacities, hire new workers don't get any relief from the Republic. This way we'll motivate them to invest and hire people. In this way, we do not only have the effect of reducing unemployment, but we also have the effect of curbing the grey economy or working on black in certain companies. We therefore propose to introduce a new member of 44a, which in the financial year for indefinitely, and at least to two years employs new workers, the tax base is reduced by the amount of newly employed workers' earnings, increased for contributions to compulsory social security paid by the employer. The second amendment also applies in the same law to a newly established legal entity and to economically underdeveloped municipalities, which performs productive work. So our proposal is to free newly established companies from profit tax for the first three years in underdeveloped parts of Serbia. In this way, we motivate the opening of new companies, stimulate entrepreneurial ideas and give them the opportunity to launch their business without tax burden. I don't think either proposal will endanger the fiscal stability of the Republic and the budget, and that it will certainly return multiple times through giving, if these entrepreneurs succeed in developing their business or hiring more of their own people. So, in these times of high unemployment and relatively low economic activity, we have to look for ways and models to help our businesses and entrepreneurs, that not only big investors, foreign investors, who come to Serbia get tens of thousands of euros per employee, and that our domestic businessmen who carry Serbia's economy and are supposed to wear it in the next period, are getting nothing. That's why I urge you to vote in favour of this amendment to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1737	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 12, 148 of the 160 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law supplementing the General Administrative Procedure Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1738	Dear Vice President of the National Assembly and the honourable MPs, I would ask you to listen to the reasons, or arguments that I can give why the laws I have proposed should be discussed. There is no reason for the ruling majority not in seven months, and by March 3rd, no law has been passed in this assembly and has not prepared the laws for this regular session in seven months. Today is October 3rd, we have a proposal from the government and the ruling majority to discuss only one law, there is no reason not to adopt the opposition's arguments and that some of the 50 laws proposed by the opposition, do not allow them to be placed on the agenda and to argue before this assembly. We can face arguments about these laws when the debate opens, but you simply do not allow us to discuss in the Assembly the laws proposed by anyone other than the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the government of the Republic of Serbia is proposing nothing but one amendment and two additions to one law. I have proposed to amend the Law on General Administrative Procedure, which has absolutely nothing to do with the political views of the government or the opposition, but has to do with only making it easier for citizens in Serbia to exercise their rights in some procedure. This law was passed in 2016 and it is good and represents progress, and I now propose to improve some of the solutions that have started to apply and which aim to make the state administration as efficient as possible. There is no reason that the law states that the state authority will act urgently without having a deadline, which means urgent, so I suggest that when it comes to urgent action, a state authority that makes a decision within 24 hours must request a document from another state authority. We are all witnesses that when you want to take out your ID card, you need a copy of the birth certificate and citizenship, and these documents should be obtained by the state authority, or the MUP. He can do that, in my opinion, in eight days, there's no reason to wait for it for 15 days. There is no reason not to deliver the document electronically within 24 hours, but to stand – the shortest deadline, and we do not know what this shortest deadline means. Please support one of these changes and additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1739	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, 141 MPs did not vote from a total of 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law supplementing the Anti-Corruption Agency, which submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Nenad Konstantinovic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1740	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Members of the People, since you are all members of the political parties this topic is close to you and I ask you to support it to put into the agenda a law aimed at introducing integrity plans into political parties. What does that mean? This means that, ladies, we suggest that prevention in the fight against corruption is not only carried out in state bodies but also in political parties. Otherwise, citizens believe that political parties are the root of corruption, and I believe that with one such law, namely the introduction of integrity plans, it would help citizens to understand that political parties are doing everything to prevent corruption from themselves, and that they will later apply it in the country itself. So you have political parties that delegate their representatives to state authorities. So, we choose state authorities, and we don't want to respect our own organizations for what we're asking the state authorities to do. All state authorities have to come up with an integrity plan. Unfortunately, that doesn't happen in practice. There are about 4,500 state authorities. All about two, two and a half thousand brings together integrity plans. But there's no reason why political parties don't do it. What would that get us? It would be given to the political party itself to assess the focal points that represent the point of possible corruption. They would get this to regulate their own system to be transparent, to determine whether decisions are made in political parties in accordance with the Statute and whether they are implemented in accordance with the Statute. Of course, it is very important to fund political parties that must comply with the law and there must be a mechanism to avoid any abuse, or corruption within the political party. If we learn that within our home, it's like home education to you, then we'll know that corruption is not good and that corruption must be prevented in the state bodies. I'm afraid because of my intransparency I can say the corruption of political parties, that corruption is passed on later and into state authorities. This power has a full mouth – fighting corruption. The real proof that you want to fight corruption is that this is the law we adopt and that we act preventively from ourselves and later on in high state functions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1741	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, 144 MPs did not vote, out of a total of 160 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of National MPs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Nenad Konstantinovic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1742	I thank you, Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear fellow MPs, we had an election six months ago. I think we've all seen witnesses, we who sit in this room, and the citizens of Serbia, that this process was unfair, that it was non-transparent and that there were attempts to end the electoral will of citizens. I don't think it makes any sense to forget six months later about what happened then. Otherwise, I don't think our electoral system is good, that he has to change. There are proposals to change the electoral system that has been given by the political party to which I belong and many other political parties, but we have to agree on a change in the electoral system, and that it would be good to make a consensus, if we can't by consensus, then at least most political parties can advocate it. This electoral system that we have does not allow MPs to be held accountable to citizens, nor do citizens know who their MP is, nor from all municipalities and parts of Serbia, we have MPs in this assembly. What I've been trying to do with this bill is to change those explicit irregularities we saw in the last election campaign in the last election process. There are provisions in the current law that I think are absolutely excessive. One of these is, and you know very well what you're doing, the collection of 10,000 signatures to run for elections, and you know that all the political parties, even if they're sitting here, or registered as political parties, have already collected those 10,000 signatures once when they were registered. The result of such a provision is the counterfeiting of the signatures, which we witnessed. Also, you have seen the unfair distribution of economic resources between individual political parties and the possibility of all participating in a fair campaign. It takes more than 2m euros for a campaign just for the media, if you want to have a decent campaign. Some parties also spend 10m euros and more on television videos. Our proposal is for the release of a propaganda programme in the elections to be free of charge for political parties, i.e. that it is financed from the budget, because otherwise the funds that we receive from the budget as political parties are all over the payment of unnecessarily expensive videos. On the same basis, we propose that political parties be presented and what is very important, I end up with, the electoral will and the election results must be determined solely on the basis of the voter's minutes. Help not to repeat that RIK can arbitration which logs it will read, which will end, which it will not read and where the polling stations will change results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1743	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, v – two, 143 MPs did not vote, out of a total of 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Special Action to Prevent the conduct of criminal acts against semi-freedom against minors, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Nenad Konstantinovic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1744	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have proposed to amend the popular "Maria's Law" that has been passed in this assembly recently and which, unfortunately, has not lived to the extent that this should be done. The essence of this law is that there should be a record of persons who commit crimes against half-freedom. It's primarily rapists, and everyone else who commits one of these kinds of crimes. Unfortunately, I don't think that "Maria's Law" has sufficiently arranged this area, because it applies only to perpetrators of crimes compared to minors. We believe that there is a need to extend that record and that the records should be kept against all perpetrators of the crimes of rape and crimes against the full freedoms. Also, we believe that this record is not done in an efficient way by the criminal sanctions enforcement administration, but rather by keeping records of the Ministry of Serbia, who otherwise keeps records, criminal records, records of such a type. It is also important for the Serbian Ministry of Interior to have in its record who the rapists are so that they can prevent a repeat of the crime by the same perpetrator, and the returner has many, you have seen this and you can see it in the media. Otherwise, in Serbia, I think we are shocked every week that any of these crimes or crimes of domestic violence, violence against women in a broader sense, have been committed. I think adopting this law would allow for better recording and preventing these crimes from happening in the future. Also, there have been many announcements by the executive authorities that something will be done about violence against women. So far, there is no movement, so I ask the ruling majority to, in the meantime, until we change the criminal law of the Republic of Serbia, adopt to discuss one such supplement that I think is absolutely in line with what was wanted by the adoption of "Mary's Law": Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1745	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 MPs of a total of 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Tax Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Nenad Konstantinovic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1746	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, distinguished colleagues, the property tax is certainly an issue that concerns all citizens of Serbia. Since 2013, when the Property Tax Act was amended, some households have been increased by 200 and 300% compared to 2013. You will admit that this increase is not normal and that it is impossible for anyone in this country to plan where to live if you can raise the income tax to an apartment 300% compared to the previous time. That's why I suggested, among other things, that this law limit the possibility of increasing taxes for citizens up to seven percent a year to make it predictable. I deeply disagree that citizens who have reduced pensions 10% to 25%, in a country where electricity is increased by 20% and higher, electricity excises should be increased by 200%. I don't know how you live, but are you aware that citizens don't have to pay for it? People don't have the money to pay property taxes. The result is they'll have to sell their apartments, but the problem is there's no one to buy those apartments. Not everyone can sell apartments and move to places where taxes are lower, because there's no one to come to these apartments. I propose that this law be exempt from property tax up to 25m2 per member of the family household. Everyone and according to the Constitution has the right to live in their apartment and is not a luxury when a four-member family lives in an apartment of 70m2, no, it's a necessity. If you have a four-member family and you have one 70m2 apartment, you don't have to pay your property tax, if you have more apartments, of course you have to pay, because it's a luxury, or you earn from it by renting that apartment. Please seriously consider this issue, because this is the topic of the current one that is strangling citizens of Serbia. How many of you have a house and garden of 10 acres? Under the current law, you have one vague provision that tax should not be paid up to 10 acres of land, and it is interpreted by the Ministry of Finance so that if you have a thousand and one square, so 10 acres and one square you have to pay at all, and whoever has 999 squares doesn't have to pay anything. It's discrimination.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1747	Time, Mr. Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1748	The point of the legal provision was that when you pay your taxes on the house, you don't pay for the garden if that yard is up to 10 acres. You have to pay your taxes through that. This was in law until 2013.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1749	I thank my colleague Konstantinovic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 147 MPs out of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Igor Bečić, on the basis of Article 92(2) position 192, paragraph 2 and Article 193. From the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to carry out a joint single search on: Proposal for a decision on the election of the Deputy Prosecutor, which was submitted by the State Greater Prosecutors since 9 September 2016, the Proposal for a decision on the election of judges who were first elected to the Judicial Council, which submitted the High Council on 16 March 2016, the Proposal for a decision on the election of judges first elected to the judiciary, which was submitted by the High Council of Justice, as of 4 April 2016, the Proposal for a decision on the election of judges first elected to the judicial office, which was submitted by the High Council of Judges, as of 24 June 2016, the proposal for a decision of the Court of Justice on the first time to the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the first time, which was elected by the High Council of Justice, on 29 July 2016, the proposal for a decision of the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice, adopted by the Presidents of the Council of the Republic of 19 September 2016. The word is made by MP Marko Djurisic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1750	Thank you, Your Honor. I believe that the Rules of Procedure, Rule 92, is injured, which speaks about the establishment of the agenda of the session. Article 92(6) states that if the proposals set out in Article 2 have not been submitted in accordance with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly will not consider them, nor will they be declared. Article 2 states that MPs, the Government and other authorised proposings can propose to withdraw certain items of the agenda, supplementing the proposed agenda, bringing the debate together, which is, in this case, the conduct of a search in particular immediately after the conclusion and the change of order. I have repeatedly pointed out that when the agenda points are combined, decisions cannot be combined, only draft laws can be combined, if the mutual solutions adopted by these laws are conditioned. We have here a proposal from colleagues from Becic to bring together the debate on several decisions, so these are now decisions on the election of judges, several of these decisions by judges and prosecutors, proposed by the Supremely Greater Prosecutors in 2016, but also by the debate on changes and additions of the election of members of the Assembly bodies. So he absolutely doesn't think there's any way we can decide that. I ask you to apply this, since it has always been that the proposal has been submitted and that it must be voted on, any proposal. I tell you here, here, I am telling you, Article 92 of Section 6 says that the proposals that are not with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure are not being put in place, they cannot be considered, nor can the Assembly be declared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1751	From what I understand, colleague Đurisic, you claim to suggest... (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Unification cannot be put on the agenda. ) You have read the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the Act, not to... (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Uniting the debate. ( ) Proposals that are not submitted in accordance with the procedure are not considered and are not spoken of by the congregation. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: This one does not comply with the procedure. But let's ask the National Assembly if she thinks she's in compliance with the procedure. I will, however, ask the National Assembly, parliament, so that all fellow MPs may say whether it is in accordance with the procedure or not. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 130, v – six, abstention – one, did not vote – 30, of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has accepted this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for the agenda for the session of acts under emergency procedure, proposals for the completion of the proposed agenda and the proposal for a merger of the debate, pursuant to Article 93(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 136, v – eight, did not vote – 25, of the total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016, in general. I ask the Service to prepare the consolidated text of the agenda. Dn e v n ir e d 1. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the financing of local self-government; 2. Proposal for a decision on the selection of a deputy public prosecutor; 3. Proposal for a decision on the selection of judges who are first elected to the judicial office; 4. Proposal for a decision on the choice of judges who are first elected to the judicial office; 5. Proposal for a decision on the choice of judges who are first elected to the judicial office; 6. Proposal for a decision on the choice of judges who are first elected to the judicial office; 7. Proposal for a decision on the choice of judges who are first elected to the judicial office; 8. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of the Parliamentary Committee on Stabilisation and Association; 9. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia; 10. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia; 11. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and 12. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. Comrade, here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Ask for a word. Here you go, colleague Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1752	The Honorable Chairman, a fellow MP, has, in effect, suffered a specific violation of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, or of a member of 107, who says that the speaker at the meeting of the National Assembly is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. What exactly is this about? Presiding before you, Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, you have also used an unusual method for disciplining the ruling majority, when she should vote yes, and when she does not have to participate in the vote at all, using the bells you normally use for silence if, for example, there is noise in the hall. I believe that this is how you humiliated your own MPs and, in some way, the dignity of the Assembly because they know for sure what they're going to vote for, which they won't vote for because it's pre-arranged and agreed at a session of the parliamentary group, which is a perfectly normal thing. It was simply very noticeable that when the opposition's proposals are read on which no bell should be voted at all, the bell is not advertised, and the bell is only advertised at the moment when they disciplinedly need to raise their hands for some proposal. I simply don't think that the bells should be used for these purposes of disciplining the ruling majority's MPs, that they are absolutely independent, with their integrity and identity, they will surely know in which way they should vote. I think it's really ugly that even the chairman is disciplined in that way and he's distracting them whether they vote one way or the other. After all, there is Mr. Martinovic, the president of the parliamentary group, the other president of the parliamentary group, who will suggest that votes should be voted and, ultimately, there is no reason to mock the MPs and destroy the dignity of the National Assembly. Simple, my appeal. I think it's one correct thing to do and thus protect the dignity of every MP in the ruling majority.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1753	Mr. Obradovic, I believe there is no violation of the provisions of article 107. Rules of Procedure. It's just a coincidence, I assure you. Galama is such by fellow MPs that I can barely hear what you're saying, so we occasionally use that bell to concentrate our fellow MPs on what we do. We're working on it. You have received the resignations of MPs Ivica Dačić, Aleksandro Antić, Prof. Dr. Slavica Djukić Dejanović, Milan Krkobic, Goran Knezevic, Zivko Vrcelj, Gordana Predić and Andrej Mladenovic, acting as MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, as regards the examination of these paragraphs, which has determined that the resignation of the resignations was the case of Article 88(2) of the Law on the selection of Members of People's Parliaments and suggests that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Articles 88 and 4 of the same law, determines the termination of the mandates of these MPs. In accordance with Article 88(1), point (2) and points 3 and 4. The Law on the Selection of National MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, finds that before the end of time they were elected to the MPs: Ivica Dacic, Aleksandra Antić, Prof. Dr. Slavica Đukić Dejanović, Milan Krkobic, Goran Knezevic, Zivko Vrcelj, Gordani Predeć and Andrej Mladenović, on the day of their resignation. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the discharge of seats in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be carried out. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they are invited to attend today's session: Dr Dusan Vujović, Minister of Finance, Ana Brnabic, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Ivan Bošnjak, State Secretary at the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Ana Ilic, Chief of Staff of State and Local Government, Sasa Mogic, Assistant Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government and Jelena Kovacevic, Special Advisor of the Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government. We move to the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments of the Law on the Financialisation of Local Self-Government Before opening a principled search, I remind you that, under Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a principle search on the draft law amending the Law on the financing of local self-government. Do the representatives of the proposing Mr Dusan Vujovic, Finance Minister Ana Brnabic, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government want a word? There's a word for Minister Ana Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1754	Thank you very much. Dear People's MPs, as the new minister, I must tell you that it is a great pleasure and a great honor for me to speak before you and in this house, as the largest representative body of Serbian citizens. I will try for the next ten to fifteen minutes to explain the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of local self-government. One of the reasons why this law was passed was, as you probably all know, the 2006 Law on the financing of local self-government, which at the time was relatively well established rules and criteria for financing units of local self-government. He came into force in 2007. At that point, the profit tax was found to be going to 40% of local self-government units, that the rest goes to the central level and a pretty clear formula has been established for transfers from the Republic to local self-governments. Unfortunately, in 2011, I think there were amendments to the Law on the financing of local self-government that dramatically increased income from income tax to local self-government and that was then increased by 40% as far as it was until then, up to 80% as it is today. The result of this law was an increase of 1.1% of GDP per year, or some close to 40 billion dinars. One of the things that was then considered to be capable of being able to do is to increase this size of the share in the profit tax so that municipalities would invest more in their development projects, in their investment projects, in capital projects, but the practice proved that unfortunately, although some local self-governments have taken advantage of it largely did not happen enough. What we are talking about today is a way to try to change these negative effects, that the burden of fiscal consolidation that the state of Serbia is going through is dividing between the locals, between the Republic and, at least, correcting the vertical fiscal imbalance between local self-government and the central level of government. In the end, this was agreed with the IMF, which asked the government of the Republic of Serbia to redistribute from the locals to eight billion dinars for additional fiscal consolidation measures. What is important is to point out that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is still in its technical mandate, so I inherited this solution somewhere, which I think is much better than that radical solution that was in circulation in December 2015, and for which a permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities, or its presidency has asked to withdraw from the adoption procedure because they would have a rather devastating effect on the budgets of local self-government. The Technical Government, the prime cabinet of the prime minister and the finance ministry, heard the criticisms of local self-government, worried that at that time some local self-government would be completely unsustainable for funding and it was decided that instead of eight billion dinars of local self-government, these changes and additions of the Law on the financing of local self-government would be redistributed 4.8 billion, while 3.2 billion left over from the IMF's demands again bear the burden of the republic's budget. When thinking about how to do this, driven by some basic parameters, which is primarily that the poorest municipalities are least affected and that those at least lose in the budgets, that the difference in the budget compared to the budget that was, or which should have been, anywhere for 2017 is 4%, and that this goes mainly below 3%, and this is, I am glad to say, achieved for all local self-government except unfortunately for Bor where the budget gap is, if this proposal is adopted 4.4%. It was very important, and it was one of the basic concerns of the previous bill is to continue to stimulate decentralisation, especially local and economic development, because the previous draft was such that the share of the profit tax was divided 50-50 between the central level and the local level. We wanted the profit tax to remain the majority income of local self-government so that local self-government would in fact have the motivation to support primarily its entrepreneurs, then their small and medium-sized enterprises, and finally help the state of Serbia attract investors, because the more employees in the medium and small business sector, the more employees in the companies that come to Serbia, the more new companies and new entrepreneurs, the more the budgets of local self-government will be, so it was an important mechanism to leave the income tax as the majority income of local self-government. In the end, it was very important for Belgrade to carry the greatest burden as a local self-government that ultimately has the most development opportunities for all institutions, as well as most investors. Based on these parameters, what we are proposing is that municipalities of profit taxes, that municipalities belong 74% instead of the 80% so far, that cities instead of the 80 percent so far belong to 77% and that the City of Belgrade, which certainly had 70% of the participation in the income tax, should be reduced to 66%. With this proposal, Belgrade's city carries 40% of the total burden, so Belgrade's city has roughly participated with some two billion dinars in this redistribution of 4.8 billion. On average, cumulatively, for municipalities this redistribution would reduce the budgets by 2.65% and for cities 1.68%, for Belgrade 2.32%. We have only 12 municipalities with a budget gap of more than 3% and two cities with a budget gap of over 2%, which is Belgrade and Kragujevac. Of course, the tax on earnings in total remains the same, so there are no differences in that sense. In order to further stimulate investment projects, it is important to note, we also mentioned this to representatives of all local self-government because we had a meeting with representatives of 105 local self-government in Serbia in the first week of government work. It's important that the government stays open to the so-called. Compensation measures, which is that if local self-governments had planned investment development projects during 2017 and were affected and could not have these projects realised because of this reduction in funds then the government would certainly be open to participating in financing investment projects, but not in current expenditures and current spending. So we believe that, as I said and as the Fiscal Council has given in its reasoning of this law, in its opinion of this law, on the bill of law, that, as I said, this will correct the vertical fiscal imbalance to a large extent and will contribute to further fiscal consolidation, the preservation of macroeconomic stability which is certainly, I think we must all acknowledge, already achieved largely. In the end, I would like to stress that this will not be the end of a reform of local self-government financing which is very complex and which, in the great need of reform, because we have had quite a lot since 2006, I would say irrational approaches to funding local self-government where we have either transferred additional powers to local self-government without transferring funds or transferring funds without trusting additional jobs. So one of these things didn't necessarily follow the other which was quite a mistake and that led us to this situation. So at this point, the Ministry of Finance is working on two very important laws. One is the Tax Act, another is the Law on Compensation which should address the issue of parafiscal charges and which should introduce order and more stable business in Serbia which will be particularly important for small and medium-sized enterprises, entrepreneurs who unfortunately cannot count in some local self-government from year to year how much taxes, taxes and fees will be due, because there are local self-governments, again I say, not all of them, but there are regrets that if they lack money in the budget then they resort to a taxi, a fee for eight, nine, ten, and sometimes more times a year. So these two laws should for the first time bring order to the parafiscals in the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government are working on amendments and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government, which we will try to introduce greater co-operation between local self-government, some different competences of local communities, so that we can make local self-government a little more efficient, to try to introduce, I said, inter-municipal co-operation. Not every municipality needs, for example, at this point a sports inspector, so there are resources that they can share. On the other hand, we with a constant conference of cities and municipalities are working on a decentralisation strategy, which now needs to look again at all the entrusted affairs of local self-government, to see if all the competences of local self-government are down from the central to the local level, whether at this point they are doing well, whether some of them need to be re-centralised, some others to decentralised, and finally, the end of how much it costs to do these trusted jobs, which so far is not done, because if you do, I, as Anna, give Sasha some work and say, do it for me, then Sasha will tell me - doing this job costs five dinars, so I say - okay, if you want to do it for me, then here's five dinars, so do it. No such analysis has been conducted. So we need to see how much these jobs are costing to local self-governments at the central level and what funding local self-government is going to be like. After all, those are the steps that follow. We have three laws and one strategy in which the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government in close co-operation should actually circle the framework of funding for local self-government, so that it becomes more sustainable, more stable and transparent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1755	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? More of you checked in at the same time. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1756	Dear Ministers, respected representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, chaired by, respected fellow MPs, I am not happy that at the first regular session of this House we have an amendment to the Law on the financing of local self-government and the withdrawal of money from cities and municipalities. Also, I expected Minister Dusan Vujovic here, whom I believe should have answered our questions as someone more competent, given the fact that Minister Ana Brnabic is here now in his new assembly for the first time and that, behold, he has assigned the task to defend this law today. So let's look first at what kind of land we live in today. We live in a country today with the lowest wages in the region, in a country whose citizens pay the most expensive fuel in the region, we live in Serbia that has the oldest population in the region. Serbia belongs to the five oldest countries in Europe. We live in Serbia, where more than 30,000 people leave each year. At the same time, we boast of surpluses in the budget. We often use this, or Prime Minister Vukic uses it in his performances at theatre press conferences. The last one was September 1st, where we heard there was a surplus in the budget of 31.8 billion dinars and it was much more than the IMF estimate. I'm just going to tell you that when in underdeveloped countries you have a surplus in the central register, it usually means that you have a deficit in the pockets of the population and the budgets of the economy. We boast of our incredible reforms and results to be touched on our backs by the World Bank, the IMF and other international financial institutions, but we are silent about who we took that money from. We can't hear from where that surplus came from and so much progress in the Republic of Serbia's budget. We took it from the pensioners we've reduced to pensions, who today barely make ends meet and who don't even have the drugs. We took it from the professors and the doctors that you cut the salaries for. It'll be taken from the VAT on baby goods and a lot of other things. But it turns out that it's not enough, that we lack more praise from major international financial institutions. This is why today the budgets of local self-government are on the agenda, to take money from both municipalities and cities. You probably think the budgets of Prokuplja, Nis, Sombora, Novi Sad, Kragujevac, Belgrade are too large and should be taken away by 4.8 billion dinars and poured into the central register. The explanation of the legislator that we've got is actually a quote of the fiscal council analysis, which I think is quite dishonest, and now I'm going to tell you why. So, as an explanation, the deficit increase is said, we have now heard from the minister, since 2011 by 1.1% on an annual basis, and that such tax distribution according to the estimate of the Fiscal Council is not based on modern fiscal practice, which recommends that taxes are dominantly belonging to the central level of government, and that municipalities and cities did not use these funds during the previous period for development projects, but were acting out of pride, spending on wages, earnings and other things. Since all our mouths are full of European values, let's see what European standards are about redistributing public revenues. First, the European Charter of Local Self-Government, which Serbia ratified in 2007, obliges states that have accepted it to apply rules guaranteeing the political, administrative and financial independence of local authorities. Is that so in Serbia? In some developed EU countries, nearly half of total budget revenues belong to local levels, and in Serbia last year, all municipalities and cities, including AP Vojvodina, received only 11.68% of total revenues, or nine times lower than the central level of government. Then we hear that because of the 2011 law, the Republic was generous to the municipalities. However, the data shows something completely different. According to official data from the Ministry of Finance, which is why I needed Minister Vujovic who is not here, annual consolidated public revenues at the local level of government in Serbia from 2012 to the day of today from year to year are getting lower, so I will tell you that in 2012 local self-governments amounted to 17.7% of total public revenues, in 2013, 14.2%, in 2014 12.28%, and in 2015 we reached a record with only 11.68% of the funds. At the same time, since 2012, the central government has included 82.8%, 85.8% in 2013, 87% in 2014 and 88.3% in 2015. It says that the whole of Serbia is working only to fill the republican register, that citizens should save, that the economy should save so that we can mix all the money there, that the prime minister has something to talk about at press conferences, mentioning the incredible reforms with which citizens of the Republic of Serbia live every day. In all EU countries, as I said, one-third of total public income belongs to local self-government units, and the rest goes to the central register. When we talk about profit tax today, it's actually just one source of funding for local self-government, and if we look at it partially, then we can say that maybe we need to redistribute. All of this might be so that the situation in practice is no different. I understand that for both the IMF and the finance minister, this bill today represents figures and letters. They took the papers, looked at it, said we'll transfer from one jar to another jar, we'll have more money on the level of the Republic, we'll have fiscal stability, we'll take something from the municipalities, it won't be too much of a problem. Of course, as someone who was the president of the municipality, I can say with full right to those who never were, and also to Minister Vujovic, where does he actually take the funds from? To know what he's taking funds from, he doesn't take from any of the presidents of the municipality. He needs to go down into real life, get down among the people, get down among the citizens, hear what their needs are, and reduce what they need by cutting back in this way for years to reduce funding for local self-government. In this case, you would see that the funds for separation and agriculture will be reduced, and for local infrastructure, and for the purchase of materials for schools, assistance to unemployed maternity services, preschool institutions and everything else that is in charge of funding local self-government. Now, this may not be too much of a problem if municipalities do not often have a need, or that they do not have to finance from their local budgets something that is not in their direct jurisdiction, so because of the failure of the system of institutions, because some republican institutions do not do their jobs, they do not finance certain things, very often municipalities are forced to do so from their own budgets. I'll give you some examples, like buying anti-building missiles. It's not in the jurisdiction of local self-government. We've been given directions and the Ministry of Finance's opinion that we can buy, because there's no money in the Republic's register for that. Also, for years back, healthcare professionals in healthcare institutions are funded because the Fund does not approve of the employment of new workers. And also a year and a half ago, we got a new build-up of electricity through the introduction of a 50% public lighting network. We also received an order from the prime minister, a year ago, to give 7,000 to all workers in preschool institutions, or teachers, because this is our obligation, but the prime minister agreed with the unions and said - I will order the municipalities to transfer it. Also a few years ago, a limited amount of municipal tax is limited due to the acceleration of the economic environment in cities and municipalities, which is not bad, and I was there for that, even though I was the president of the municipality, but when you constantly damage local self-government with every new law for years, you will cause a problem for the citizens who live there. I now know that someone will say that the presidents of the municipality are some irresponsible local sheriffs, that they spend money on employment, on wages, and it could have been heard many times in the previous period, but don't make a rule based on exceptions. So, if a representative of local self-government, such as the president of Kursumli municipality, bought his first car from the SNS, the president of Kosjeric municipality, for several times in the value of the annual budget, owed his municipality, when some presidents of the municipality hiding behind the party booklet of ruling parties signed various financial contracts with their relatives, it must not be a rule, nor be a practice. I want to talk today about those presidents of municipalities who have been responsible and doing their job, who are perspective and who are prosperous, those who know what local infrastructure means, those who know what capital projects are, those who know how to talk to investors, those who know how to plan a budget to measure their citizens, to meet all the needs that citizens expect from them. They are being punished and they are being punished by such a policy that lasts back several years by continuing reduction of funds for the development of local self-government, and as far as the SNS and its presidents of municipalities are concerned, they will certainly have time to calculate themselves with the leprosy from their ranks. As funds are reduced to local self-government, on the other hand, no one is opening a topic that will pay for the failures of non-professional ministers in the previous period. We've changed 36 ministers since 2014. Many of them were announced as magicians to make an economic boom in Serbia, and then made huge costs and huge problems in their portfolios. No one mentions why results are not achieved in the reform of public enterprises, why we continue to have a situation where money is spent abnormally through public enterprises such as "Srbigas", such as "The Railway", such as the EPS or at the end of the RTB "Bore", and we all know how many millions and billions go to these companies. No one wanted to tackle the hard work, although years back from 2014, Prime Minister Vukic announced major and comprehensive reforms that would primarily start with public enterprises. It was easier for everyone to pass this burden on to local self-government, and it would be indirectly passed on to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and citizens living in these local self-governments. Many municipalities and cities are likely to seek a way to replace this reduction in financial resources, primarily through an increase in their original incomes, such as a property tax or other examples. It will be spilled back into the pockets of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I also worry about the fact that on such an important topic most of the presidents of municipalities in Serbia and the mayors remain silent. I'm sure it's not too good for them, but I know they're afraid on the other hand of not getting reproof from their party headquarters and knowingly accepting to be someone who's going to support a reduction in community spending. I note, not only this law, but I am talking about the total revenues that local self-government gets and the trend is falling from 2012 to today. I wonder – how long? They are now thinking about who they are going to spill that loss, probably not wanting to oppose or oppose the finance minister and the prime minister, because they may be getting from the budget reserve over the year for liquid liquidity, and then we have a situation, like it was in previous years, that cities like Leskovec, Nis, Kragujevac, Novi Now are getting hundreds of millions of dinars, completely non-transparent, based on the personal conviction of the finance minister or prime minister, based on their arguments, and they are now silently counting on being similar and receiving funds. Is it normal for us to reduce funds by law to local self-government, and on the other hand we do not abolish and leave that authority to transfer certain funds in certain situations to municipalities and cities in the Republic register, similar to those of course? It only says that we in Serbia today have one big problem, and that is primarily the lack of democracy, the lack of institutions and ultimately parliamentaryism. What I'm saying today is whispering in parliament, and it's no secret. That is what the presidents of the municipalities and MPs of the ruling structures say, but until as long as a truly crucial, true democracy is established, it means that citizens directly in the elections, with the change of electoral legislation, choose their representatives. In municipalities where they were never going to be decided by ministers, the laws will be passed by you, gentlemen, fellow MPs who are far more important to what the IMF and your party president say than by your neighbor or your fellow citizen. Because of what I have stated as arguments, the SDS parliamentary group and the NPS will vote against this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1757	The word has Minister Ana Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1758	Thank you very much. First, I have a few things to comment on. I understand this is a political debate. I'd like to be a little more objective somehow. We know each other. I really think you're a professionally responsible man, so for that reason I'd really like to cut down on politics and talk more about things the way they are. As for competence and that unfortunately Minister Vujovic is not here, yes, he is not here, he had other obligations. I'm not less competent to be the new minister. You don't become a man competent to be a minister, so the longer you're a minister, the more competent you are. Secondly, I really wouldn't expect you to, anyway, from your MP group, to talk about the IMF like this. I would think that you really understand the importance of the IMF for Serbia. I understand, for example, the SRS parliamentary group, that it is against the IMF and I fully understand and understand their arguments, but I cannot understand you. I thought that you shared the belief that the IMF is a good thing for Serbia because every pat on the back, as you would say, the IMF means that this Serbia has cheaper money, cheaper loans and that it is more stable and that more investors are coming into it. I'd think so, but okay. As for budget cuts, they certainly decrease in some municipalities, in some municipalities they do not shrink. I assume that you know that it also depends on local self-government to local self-government. Here, I have an example of Somboro that the city's budget is about 20 million euros, which rose by about 15% five years ago, and I also have an example of Majdanpek where the city's budget also increased because they increased 20% of the property tax, not by raising the base and raising the tax on citizens' property, but by updating their databases and increasing the scope of that tax. As for the change and the reduction of the budget, the reduction of wages and pensions and all that, again, I think that these two topics are somehow going together and what I would like to say is that the one thing I've seen in the last two years is that the government is removing the mistakes that have been made, and so it removes the mistakes that they're making themselves, so I don't see that the problem is that 36 ministers have changed. What? That they won't stay if they don't work well? But in this respect, we have a pension reduction that was completely irrationally increased in 2008, right? There was no rational increase in pensions in 2008, so someone had to reduce them to be responsible. In 2011, the share of income tax from 40% to 80% was also significantly increased. Then it was believed, hoping I thought, it wasn't believed because it wasn't based on any analysis, hoping it would go into investment development projects like I said. Unfortunately, local income expenditure between 2008-2014 has been nominally increased by 42% and expenditure on goods and services has been increased by 50%, while capital expenditures at the same time means investment projects have been nominally reduced by 29%. The truth is that it was a time of the global economic crisis, so that trend was downward at a republican level, but to a less sensitive extent than it was with local self-government. There are local self-governments, I agree completely which are fantastic, unfortunately we don't talk enough about them, we don't talk about local self-governments that aren't good and there are things that aren't well done in the previous period, which we're going to look at this year, for 2017 to remove as was a linear reduction, instead of from the municipality to the municipality where we are, we've punished the good local self-governments, but that's how it was and we're going to change that too. So if there's a problem, we'll change. It is normal for the state to have higher salaries in the private sector than in the social sector. For years, for years, I think everyone talked about the need to rationalise the state administration, that local self-government and public enterprises should also be rationalised because the economy can no longer support the financing of the public sector. And that's what happened now. I think that now in nominal values, the real values are that private sector wages are higher than salaries in the state sector. I said that the burden of fiscal consolidation is okay if we all take it equally, because this is a serious job and I agree, I think we all agree it's a serious job. I can't believe we can disagree that it wasn't seriously done. But, well, maybe we can. It's hard for me to hear the argument that it wasn't seriously done. So the state administration has been very rationalized. You now have and thanks to all the efforts in the last two years, you have an average of Serbia's civil servants from 6.7% to 100 residents where you have 8% of civil servants in the EU per 100 inhabitants. What we're going to insist on is training and redistribution, because there's still shortages somewhere, there's surpluses somewhere, but training is what we're going to insist on, and the state administration isn't true that she was just taking money out of retirement and now she's taking money from the local budget, and she hasn't been doing anything on her own, I think the state administration came first. As for the distribution on the party line, I'm not a member of any party, but I think this is proof that there was no distribution on the party line, it was led here by some other principles. I said it doesn't cross 4% a year so local self-government can continue to provide quality services to citizens in the economy. As for local self-government itself, I said, we've had meetings with all local self-governments, I've already visited a lot of local self-government, it's going to be my first priority, to be as much in local self-government as possible, because I don't recognise strategies and action plans until I see what's going on at the bar. But first of all, the representatives are the organisation of local self-government, i.e. "A permanent conference of cities and municipalities" and their presidency welcomed such a draft law. So there's no need to discuss what local self-government means when they say it themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1759	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Aleksandar Martinovic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1760	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, as far as our neighbours and friends were concerned by the previous speaker, said theirs in April of this year, when they showed their trust to the SNS exactly and allowed us to continue to lead the country for the next four years. Otherwise, I would never boast of my ignorance. So the numbers are inexorable. A budget surplus of 27.2 billion dinars was reached in January-September 2016 and this result is by 120.6 billion better than planned. The planned deficit in January-September was 93.4 billion dinars. It is not true what the previous speaker said that the state allegedly took something from someone, so there is more money in the republican budget. Statistics are next. A key contribution to achieving a significantly better result compared to the plan has been made by revenues that in January-September 2016 exceeded the plan by 81.5 billion dinars, and above all we can thank the growth of tax revenues of 51 billion dinars, then 39.1 billion dinars are lower expenditures in the country than planned and 30.7 billion dinars are better non-tax revenues. So we managed to achieve historical economic results in the first nine months of this year, i.e. that we have 120.6 billion dinars in our budget more than we planned. At a time when the party to which Mr. Alexic belonged, led this country, we were the state that was in the economic downturn, that you, Mr. Arsic, knew very well. So, GDP was down. We are now in the plus, from month to month this plus increases, year to year increases, if you look at industry, trade, agriculture, all economic branches, absolutely everything is in the plus, everything is growing, everything is progressing.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1761	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Miroslav Aleksic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1762	First of all, as far as party membership is concerned, I was in one party and I never flew again, unlike some others, or any other party, but I already made mine. As far as competence is concerned, I didn't really have any intention of demeaning you for one moment, or anything to say personally, on the contrary, I think that Minister Vujovic, as someone who runs finance, could have given a better answer, which he did during the previous period. As far as the IMF is concerned, I'm not going to say that, the state that's working with the IMF is in a state of special need. It needs a tutor in terms of finance so that it can progress and develop and I hope that in the next period we will be less and less in need of the services of world financial institutions. Also, as regards the rationalisation of employment, i.e. rationalisation and employment costs at local level, I will only tell you that local self-government today has about 116 000 employees, public enterprises around 133 thousand and various agencies and resolutions run by the government 330 000. So, still local self-government have far, far less than having a central level of government and it should be considered. As for such good historical progress and 120 billion more than expected, then I ask the question, if we have such a surplus, such a good state of public finances, why are we reducing it to municipalities. Then don't let us reduce it. Leave the municipalities, we have, it's great, we're developing as a state and there's no need for anything. As to whether the pension increase was rational, you, or not you, were the previous same government, but in the previous term, illegally took away the rights of pensioners and that is the fundamental theme. As for funding local self-government and how it was not a failure to distribute most of the income tax there and where it is created that people where they create that tax can and use it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1763	Time. Thank you. Right on the replica, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1764	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the figures are absolutely on the side of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and on the side of what the SNS is doing. So for the first eight months GDP growth of 2.8% was achieved. At the time of your government, GDP was down, Mr. Alexic. As for agricultural production, it is above the multi-annual average, so we have a crop of corn that is higher by 36.6% compared to last year's wheat 18.8%, industrial plants when it comes to sunflower 43.6%, 29.2% when it comes to soybeans. We have an increase in industrial production in August of 5.3%. What's very important is we have an improvement in foreign trade. The record value of August's monthly exports of 1.26 billion euros, representing 12.4% growth while imports grew at a rate of 10.8%. This increased the coverage of exports from 73% in August to 74.1% in August 2016. What it says is that Serbian citizens live better is also the fact that in August 2016 there is a slightly increased turnover of goods by 6.7%. When it comes to the labour market according to data from the Central Register of Mandatory Insurance, the average number of formal employees in August 2016 increased by 1.7%, which is the full result of employment growth, primarily in the private sector of 3.5%, while in the public sector, the number of employees was reduced by 2%, which was absolutely not possible at the time of your government.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1765	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1766	As for inflation, we have one of the lowest inflations in Europe - it is only 1% in the period January – August 2016. These are all the data that say Serbia is on the right track, that Serbia is in plus and that the government of the Republic of Serbia should continue with these measures.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1767	I thank my fellow Members for warning me of the time. My colleague Alexic, on what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1768	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1769	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1770	Thank you. I'm advertising a breach of Article 104. The Rules of Procedure relating to the replica, which clearly states that if the MP in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly is an offensive expression about a national MP who is not a member of the same parliamentary group, stating his name, last name or function, or misreading his presentation has the right to replication. I didn't mention the name and last name of Mr. Martinovic for a single moment, unless he was recognized in the fact that I mentioned flying from the party to the party, since he once swore to Mr. Seselj...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1771	Thank you. I understand your objection to the Rules of Procedure. Let me just tell you, colleague Aleksic, that Mr. Martinovic was given the right to replicate the party's president and to mention the government he led. So I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) The word has a People's MP Dragan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1772	I thank the chairman. Madam Ministers with Associates, Honorable Ladies and Gentlemen People's MPs, an extremely important topic, amendments to the Law on the financing of local self-government. I'm one of the MPs who's been running local self-government for 12 years and with full right and I'm going to talk about the amendments to this law. At the very beginning, I will say that the parliamentary group to which New Serbia belongs will support these changes in the voting day. What is extremely important to me is that the party I belong to, and of course I support the policy of financial consolidation led by Aleksandar Vukic, and we will support the amendments to the law. What I'd have to ask you, dear Madam Minister, and draw your attention to a few things that some parties have been ruling, and when they've been making changes to the law, we weren't in this situation to talk about, but here's the chance. At the very beginning, I have to ask you, you quoted how much the reduction in the participation of local self-government is in profit tax, so you said of course we're going from 80 to 74% for municipalities, and to 77% for cities. I'm only interested – why 74% for municipalities and 7% for cities, especially for the city of Belgrade, if we have the same authority for municipalities and cities? I run the municipality, and it's just amazing to me that now someone who has a ID card on Topol from his salary for profit tax stands out into the budget of the municipality of Topol 74%, and colleagues from Kragujevac who stand up to us 77%. What are these ingenuities and whether it's just about cities being in charge, and unfortunately in this whole story, it's going to happen that good local self-government has consequences because they've run a responsible policy, they've run a policy without the employment of aunts, scurves and other things, and now we've come to be punished for running a responsible policy. In the end, I will say about the debt itself, whether 100 municipalities in Serbia owe as Belgrade, Kragujevac and Nis together, but the essence is something else. Let's get back to the beginning as since 2000, the Law on the financing of local self-government has been amended, and first I say to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and also to the MPs, that before the introduction of the VAT of the municipality, it was financed by 27% of the sales tax, as collected at the monthly level, that it remained local self-government, and they were able to calculate exactly how much and how it will be financed. By introducing VAT, we have a rather vague situation. Professor Loncar, who served as Minister for Local Self-Government in 2006, proposes a law adopted by the National Assembly, which defined 40% of the income tax for local self-government, and what is interesting is 1.7% of GDP will be singled out through the kind of so-called. non-intentional transfers and it worked quite precisely until, I must say, unfortunate in 2009, when Mladjan Dinkic and his team were already reducing by 15 billion, which is 0.6% of GDP transfer to local self-government in the middle of the construction season when local self-government already had a bunch of things to do and we came into the situation, and then I was the president of the municipality, to make even parallel organisations, citizens' associations, to lead a real rebellion against the then government of the Republic of Serbia, and all of this led to the change of the law in 2011. Now, that law was changed in 2011. It is true that 80% of the income tax is paid to local self-government, but it is true that the transfer funds are not increased compared to the 2006 law, but have remained at the level since 2009, meaning, with this permanent reduction, but what is very interesting and what affects all of us who run local self-government is that at that point, Mladjan Dinkic introduced something called the transfer of solidarity. Now, this is what was totally at the political level, that in which the municipalities of Mladjan Dinkic and the Democratic Party in power were able to get out of the republican budget significantly higher funds and it was never clear by which criteria, for example, Loznica has five times more transfer funds than the town of Čačka or, I don't know, Raca Kragujevaca has five times the transfer means larger than the municipality of Topol, and they're next to each other. Just because we were in opposition here, and they were in good control, and they shared the funds as they wanted. I have to say one amazing piece of information, that the transfer to municipalities that are like Black Treva, which has 1,300 inhabitants, the municipality of Žitoraj, which has 17,000 inhabitants, and Presevo 40,000 inhabitants have the exact same transfer. Is it, Madam Minister, what is the key thing that you have to push through to the adoption of the 2017 budget is that this imbalance and this injustice of correction? And that's the key thing. We can't have someone here giving lectures in the Assembly who's been in the party, who's brought all this stuff. Look, you guys have such imbalances that they're just amazing. Here is the Prime Minister in the exposé, when the government was elected, mentioned some municipalities such as Koseric. That's where people owe three or four annual budgets. Who was responsible for that? We had the responsibility from 2009 to 2012, the president of the municipalities then, the suspension of the transfer funds was threatened who did not reduce the number of employees. Even very stimulating severances have been offered. What's done? Nothing. You have an interesting situation, you can also look at cities and municipalities, here I have a report from the Board of Treasury for 2014, where you can see the total share of expenditure for local self-government employees, where you will see for example for 2014 the municipality, which I run, Topola 22%, Novi Pazar 50%, Smederjevska Palanka 45%, total participation, means half of the money for payments to the Directorate of indirect budget users was spent from the total budget of a local self-government in 2014. We are now in a situation where all the local self-governments who have acted responsibly are punished and that is the imbalance I am talking about and that must be corrected. It is not disputed if arrangements with the IMF are necessary and for all other reasons to transfer those 4.8 billion dinars from the local location to the national level, but it is very necessary to clearly define the criteria by which the transfer funds will be given to local self-governments in 2017. Let's go back to the 2016 model and that law that's professor. Lončar then suggested, which was clearly given by territorial distribution, what is the size of one municipality, the number of inhabitants, the number of students, institutions and everything else, and then we ourselves could clearly calculate how much transfer funds would be in certain municipalities. This is how we have a political situation where someone has to be given, someone's not given. Unfortunately, this government of the Republic of Serbia has not changed in its last term, I must say, has not changed the Transfer Assets Act. What is interesting, he says – every annual Budget Law in 2012 to 2016 stipulates that the distribution of non-intentional transfers by local self-government is determined exclusively by the current Law on the financing of local self-government. So that looks nice to you, and by the grandmother and by the uncles, and we, as long as we have this situation, are going to have a totally uneven distribution in local self-government, and we're going to be held by those who were right to take part in this, and we're just going to watch here and when we need to vote. In order for that not to happen, Madam Minister, here must be said in a clear way – people, let these transfer funds be adequately determined and this should be done in the Budget Law for 2017. You mentioned in the opening statement that a new tax law is being prepared. I'm already warning you that I can't really vote for the law if, for example, I have to tell you, because we already see it coming, in the municipality, we're going to even the property tax with the firm and set a tax. Does that mean that the company will then be transferred from the legal person to the physical person? Then we'll have the same amount of money, but we'll just transfer companies from the firm to all citizens. It's not even fair, it's not adequate and we absolutely can't support it. That's why it's very important that you understand that. Some used to talk about making guillotine regulations. As you're going to call it, it doesn't matter, the point is that investors are looking for, of course, recognition in which they're going to be unbalanced and that municipalities are not given the opportunity to savage with neither taxes nor taxes nor anything, but they can't even transfer to the back of citizens something that is now a company or a communal tax for legal persons. Dear Madam Minister, at the very end of my presentation, I ask you once again to explain to us these percentages relating to municipalities and cities and that 3% difference, when you look at the nominal monetary part, is not small. Of course, to ask you to persist in all this that this government has started to do, which is to introduce, above all, the financial order into transfers and criteria for determining transfers to local self-governments, to look at how many local self-governments are employed and to determine, no matter how long the regulation will take, whether it will be extended on the ban on employment in the public sector and in 2017, it is very important and very important that certain local self-governments are allowed for some emergency places where we have a natural outflow of people such as agricultural inspectors, phytosanitary inspectors, many other places that are not covered at this point, and we do not have the possibility of any reception in the municipal administration, in public enterprises due to the ban on public sector employment, and this should be in a serious and adequate way to enable local self-government, which are responsible for the policy in the previous period, to fill those places. I also ask you, you mentioned that you would have the possibility from a republican level that certain capital investments carried out in local self-governments, that's something good, and that's something that is commendable, to help every municipality that has projects to complete and that jobs will not suffer with this 4.8 billion reduction on the total level of locals at the republican level. I thank you and wish you every happiness, first of all, in preparing the budget and in underlining it as a major matter, which is transfer and transfer funds to local self-government. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1773	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I set a break of one hour. Let me just point out that at 3:30 we have a special session and that we will continue to work on this session after the special session is over.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1774	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, I am opening the Second Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. As you know, I have called this special session to address the National Assembly of His Excellency, Mr Pedro Agramunt, President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I am honored to welcome, on behalf of the Members of Parliament and on my behalf, His Excellency, Mr Pedro Agramunt, and next to him, the other members of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe delegation attending this session: Mr Timothy John Cartwright, Head of Mission of the Council of Europe in the Republic of Serbia and Mr Artemi Karpenko, Deputy Chief of Staff of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. It is also an honor to welcome members of the government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as representatives of the diplomatic crust in the Republic of Serbia. Now I ask His Excellency Mr. Pedro Agramunt to take his word and address us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1775	Dear Madam President of Parliament, honourable MPs of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen, it is my honor to address you today as President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I would like to thank Mrs Maja Gojkovic, president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for the kind invitation, warm welcome, the friendly hospitality that I have enjoyed in Belgrade. I'm extremely happy to be here today. I witness evolution in Europe, post-war reconstruction and reconciliation, cold war and ideological conflicts of East and West, the end of totalitarian regimes and transition to democracy, even in my country, in Spain. I know from personal experience what all the useful integration of Europe has brought to our continent, which, regardless of the difficulties we face, continues to be the leading global player of the area of relative prosperity and common rules in which individuals enjoy the highest degree of protection of their fundamental rights. The desire for peace based on justice, international co-operation, the values of individual freedoms, political freedom, the rule of law, the idea of a united Europe from the Atlantic to the Pacific, is not just a mere word for me. This is the essence of a European project that began 67 years ago. It is not yet finished and we Europeans are the main actors in this process. Therefore, when we face challenges and challenges, such as in Europe today, we must remember how our joint project came into being and what events preceded the process of building Europe. The second world war and the terrible Nazi regime, its cruelty and hatred, the terrible sufferings, crimes and war crimes, the Holocaust. We must remember that the Council of Europe has been established to ensure peace and stability on our continent, so that such crimes never happen again. Our primary mission was and will be to improve, reconcile through dialogue and co-operation, it is a permanent challenge. Dialogue and cooperation are our instruments and they lead us forward and we need to make full use of these instruments and we need to look for common solutions when the issues that divide us are ahead. We must be prepared to listen and talk to others, to seek compromise in order to achieve our common goals. After being elected president of the assembly six or nine months ago, I decided to focus on the four key challenges we face today. These challenges are the basic priorities of our congregation at the same time. First, international terrorism, which represents a fundamental and one multilateral danger, the second, a refugee crisis, which also triggered a debate on European identity and values. The third is the wave of left-wing and right-wing populism, growing nationalism and erosion of democratic principles and human rights. The fourth is still unresolved conflicts and reconciliation. All these challenges are so complex and large that no country can solve them alone. The only way to protect ourselves and make progress is to raise awareness of our mutual dependence and focus on what brings us together, giving priority to dialogue over confrontation. We must cooperate and seek solutions to the challenges we face. Members have a special role to play in this process, because as directly elected representatives of citizens, we must accept our responsibility and respond to the concerns of our citizens. Two weeks ago, a European Conference of Parliament Presidents was held in Strasbourg. This conference, which brought together more than 50 presidents of parliaments of interparliamentary parliaments, was an excellent platform for a broader political debate on relevant issues. I am extremely grateful to all parliament presidents for their active participation in the debates, but I especially thank President Gojkovic for his participation in the conference as one of the main speakers. The debates have provided a lot of issues for the thinking and functioning of national parliaments and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and I would therefore like to share with you some of the ideas that we can jointly implement. First it refers to the fight against terrorism. It became clear that we cannot effectively combat terrorism only by tightening security policies and measures. Despite our efforts, terrorists find ways to infiltrate our societies and propagate destructive ideologies. They seek to create divisions between us and advocate hatred. They seek to create an atmosphere of doubt and fear. We must resolutely resist it, and as politicians representing citizens, we have a special responsibility to condemn the hatred and fear that terrorists spread. For this reason, our Assembly launched the "No hate no fair" initiative and through this initiative we call on politicians to accept their responsibility and duty and publicly step forward against fear and hatred and to promote basic freedoms and values, tolerance, non-discrimination and respect for human dignity. I am grateful to the president of the National Assembly, Maja Gojkovic, for accepting to join this initiative. I am counting on a Serbian delegation in the Parliamentary Assembly and on all of you to further promote our initiative in Serbia, in your election units and at regional level. The second question I would focus on is the refugee crisis. About a year ago, your region was particularly affected by a large wave of refugees, asylum seekers and migrants. This crisis could have been predicted, yet we failed to provide an adequate and common response to it. The refugee issue continues to be shared by our Member States and our citizens. The debates we led in Strasbourg two weeks ago certainly confirmed that. However, despite the differences that divide us, we all agree on two main issues. The current inflow of refugees will not stop in due time, and no country alone can deal effectively with this challenge. This requires a common and realistic approach based on solidarity and a fair sharing of responsibility. A unilateral response to the issue of migration and asylum will certainly be inadequate and short-lived. International co-operation, especially at regional level, is crucial. The agreements reached at a multilateral level must be respected and in no way challenged and submitted to unilateral procedures. Access to the refugee crisis Serbia has shown must be praised. I remember very well last year's address of your country's prime minister, Mr Alexander Vukic, at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in October 2016. It really is nothing bad for an organised state, he said, referring to 200,000 refugees who have been through Serbia for several weeks. Serbia has done everything it can to take care of them and allow them to pass through the country in the best possible conditions. Of course, we are aware that Serbia is mostly a transit country. Destination countries must face far more complex challenges that, among other things, follow the integration of newcomers into host communities. However, in whatever specific situation we are in, we need a realistic and practical approach to come to a common and comprehensive solution. The debate led during the European Conference of Parliaments highlighted a significant role national parliaments should play in addressing the refugee crisis and migration. Using this dual function, legislative and representative, we must make sure that our laws and policies respect human rights and international standards and focus on finding long-term solutions and a comprehensive approach that includes integration and co-operation with non-European countries of origin and transit, in order to improve development and restore peace and stability. We need to explain our political decisions to the citizens in order to resolve the misunderstandings and expose unfounded fears. That's how we get to the third challenge we have to solve. The rise of left-wing and right-wing pulsism and extremism. Due to the economic crisis, political instability, security threats and a massive inflow of refugees and migrants, populist movements use citizens' fears by offering so-called simple and effective solutions. We must resist the temptation to put citizens ahead of a false choice between security, on the one hand, and dignity and freedom, on the other. We must spread that myth that by raising obstacles and insulating the rest of the world, the problems will disappear. To oppose populist movements, leading parties from all parts of the political spectrum should develop a clear and realistic political narrative in line with democratic values and respecting human rights standards. I'm counting on you to support this approach. The fourth challenge we have to face is unresolved conflicts and reconciliation. The Council of Europe has been a key driver and advocate of reconciliation since its founding. Successful reconciliation between Germany and France after World War II was crucial to building a strong, prosperous and united Europe. However, as we know from history after the fall of the Iron Curtain, we have failed to make Europe conflict-resistant. You know very well from the experience of your country and region. Fortunately, wars in the Balkans have been halted and reconciliation progressed. Of course, there are still unresolved tasks, including refugee returns, missing persons, regional co-operation and the processing of war crimes. What is really important is that certain bold steps have been taken by politicians who have shown leadership skills, vision and responsibility. The negotiations between Belgrade and Pristina are a good example, they show that with leadership and vision dialogue is possible, even when there is deep disagreement and strong emotions. These negotiations are very important primarily for citizens whose daily problems and concerns must be addressed. They are a strong incentive for reconciliation and a significant factor for the stability of the region as a whole. I would like to acknowledge Prime Minister Vukic's commitment and improvement of Serbia-Albania's relations, intensifying bilateral co-operation between the two countries is a strong incentive for regional co-operation in Southeast Europe. I also welcome parliamentary co-operation between the two countries. Parliament Speaker Mrs Gojkovic visited Albania last year, and I was glad that the president of the Albanian parliament was visiting Serbia to continue talks on concrete projects of interparliamentary co-operation. Prime Minister Vukic's participation in a memorial of the Srebrenica tragedy last year is also a very strong message in favour of reconciliation. It takes a lot of courage to face the past and such symbolic gestures should further encourage everyone. Efforts invested in reconciliation in Southeastern Europe should be an example to all member states of the Council of Europe, which unfortunately still break up conflicts. The lesson we need to learn from Europe's history is that reconciliation has no alternative. War and violence never bring about a solution, only destruction and human suffering. Europe must be a continent of peace, not a battlefield or scene of conflict. We Europeans must resolve conflicts that divide us in accordance with international law and respecting the territorial integrity of all countries because our common interests are the protection of human rights, democracy and rule of law, both at national and international level, are stronger than the issues that divide us. We must accept our duty to resolve in an honest, open and dedicated way all the difficult issues and disagreements that exist between us in order to find solutions together and continue to build Europe without lines. All 47 Member States of our organisation must participate in this process in a committed manner, and I, as President of the Parliamentary Assembly, am fully prepared to make every effort possible to achieve this. Dear colleagues, as I slowly end my presentation, I would like to briefly mention another issue, which is the progress Serbia is making on the path of European integration and co-operation between Serbia and the Council of Europe in this context. Membership in the European Union is Serbia's strategic goal and a broad consensus factor between citizens and political circles in Serbia. Significant progress has been made on the road to the European Union and the recent opening of negotiations on chapters 23 and 24 confirms that. So I want to congratulate you on that. The preparation of accession implies serious and far-reaching reforms in the judiciary sector, in the area of countering corruption, respect for basic and minority rights, media freedom and security. In all these areas, the Council of Europe is ready to provide valuable professional assistance and to help you achieve your strategic goal. Serbia and the Council of Europe's co-operation is very good and we are ready to make it even stronger. As you know, the European Union and the Council of Europe jointly have horizontal support for the Western Balkans and Turkey to help users in Southeast Europe to comply with the standards of the Council of Europe and the legal assets of the European Union in areas such as justice, economic crime, anti-discrimination and the rights of vulnerable groups. Our technical support coordination mechanism allows you to use the Council of Europe expertise in all areas covered by the horizontal support instrument, as well as in the field of freedom of expression and media and constitutional issues. In talks with authorities, I encourage Serbia to use these instruments and you, MPs of the National Assembly should do so, encourage the government and ministers to seek expert advice, to consider expert recommendations and proposals to use them in the legislative process, and to encourage the government and officials to provide professional bodies of the Council of Europe with feedback. Together we can make progress faster. I wish you success in implementing reforms and achieving political aspirations and counting on your support in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Together, we can make Europe stronger and more complex when it comes to fundamental values that we share to respond effectively to the challenges ahead. Thank you so much for your attention. Once again, I want to thank you for your invitation and hospitality.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1776	I thank His Excellency, President Pedro Agramunt for his address to our parliament and conclude the Second Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. I also thank the MPs for attending this special session. With the work of our session that we started before this start in 15 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1777	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we will proceed with the work of today's session. The word has Minister Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1778	Thank you. I remained obliged to answer to the MP who asked a question and gave a suggestion before the break. So why 74% for municipalities and 77% for cities? The explanation is quite simple, it's due to a different rate of income tax. So cities have more income than profit taxes, and municipalities have fewer. So, to bring it together and get into those 4%, we went 74% for the cities and 77% for the municipalities. It's a practical balance. I would also say, as regards the transfer funds, there was a comment on the predictability of the transfer funds. We are trying together with the Ministry of Finance to go back to that 2006 law, or to get to some nearest such solution where predictability would actually be crucial, not the generosity of the Republic to local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1779	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Balint Pastor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1780	Mr. Chairman, Madam Ministerial, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians and the Party of Democratic Action will support the proposed amendments to the law. This is about partial changes. These changes concern only one problem from many of the existing ones. But regardless of the fact, we believe that, given that the government is at the very beginning of its mandate, this move is justified and we will certainly support these changes and additions, but I will, in the course of my address, talk about what we think we should still do in order for this topic to be arranged as best possible. What is most important right now, these changes are done for fiscal consolidation and building a healthy system. We believe that this is crucial, that this is the most important and therefore we support these amendments to the law. It is about harmonising the redistribution of income based on the income tax between local self-government units and the Republic of Serbia and preserving macroeconomic stability is the most important objective of these changes, as well as bringing the overall fiscal deficit of the Republic of Serbia to a sustainable level. This is one of the measures of this financial consolidation. The amendments to the Law on the financing of local self-government in 2011 led to disproportionateness between obligations and the corresponding revenues of the central and local levels of government. In 2011, the Alliance of Duke Hungarians was a parliamentary party, and then we were part of the ruling majority. The headquarters of that ruling majority was another party, but regardless of what we were at the time, i.e. And at that time part of the ruling majority, we voted against these amendments in 2011. I have to say, after five years, that it came true, that it was proven that we were right in 2011, when we voted against the amendments to the Law on the financing of local self-government at the time. At that time, in my address in 2011, and the principle debate was held on 15 June 2011, I said it was a pre-election bill and that the essence of these changes was that the current government was being assigned to local self-government units and that time would show that these amendments would create a huge and deep hole in the Republic of Serbia's budget at the central level, which is not good for autonomous provinces either, and it is not good for local self-government units. We said then that this solution also raises the question of the implementation of the obligation of the Republic of Serbia to the AP Vojvodina, because I want to remind you that according to the current budget, and so it was in previous years, 18% of the income tax of citizens, and part of the income tax of citizens is, of course, the income of the AP of Vojvodina. We also said in 2011 that the biggest winner of these amendments will be the city of Belgrade, and I think that it has also come true in these previous five years because, to remind you, the share of the local self-government unit, of all units of the smallest municipality in the capital, the city of Belgrade, has been raised from 40% to 80%. This created this big hole and this huge deficit in the Republic of Serbia's budget, and that's how it's been all these years, since 2011 or 2012. We also said in 2011 that it is not clear whether local self-government units will receive some new obligations and whether these obligations are in line, in proportion to the increase in income based on the distribution of income tax, as part of the income tax. We also said that regardless of what we advocate for decentralisation, it may not be best to increase the share of local self-government units from income tax in such an ad hoc way. We have said that it is better to find a comprehensive solution and to see what is what units of local self-government should finance from their own original incomes, what is what they need to finance from the incomes paid, and what is it about which the Republic of Serbia or the central level can help to realise local projects. We also said that if we are all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and we are all paying taxes, then it would be most natural for that tax to somehow return to the municipalities from which we come, or whose inhabitants we are. It was not so regulated by this 2011 law, but I also told the Minister at the time that it was arranged in a way that local self-government received a slightly increased allowance and that they were told – here, now you have a allowance, so finance both salaries and investments and infrastructure projects and everything else. Because of these 2011 views, we were also called centralists in this assembly debate, which is certainly funny, but we voted against these changes and, unfortunately, it was true that we were right and therefore we believe that these proposed changes are good because to some extent the old system is returning. But as for the share of local self-government, that share in the profit tax was reduced to a minimum since, to remind the respected MPs, the local self-government units received only 40% from 2006 to 2011, then increased to 80%, creating this large and deep hole at the central level in the Serbian Republic's budget and the deficit was created. Now these 80% are falling to 74, in the case of municipalities, 77% in the case of cities and 66% in the case of the capital, the city of Belgrade. We believe that these changes in local self-government will be more motivated to work towards attracting investments, on the one hand, and on the other hand, I hope that the Republic of Serbia will be able to finance from its budget in certain justified cases local infrastructure projects, good projects of local self-government units. Not because the Republic would do something which is a job of the municipalities and cities, but because there are projects that are inter-municipal character, which are of greater importance and, in the end, because of what I said earlier – all citizens are paying taxes and these tax dinars should return to their environments in some way and in some ways. But I said at the beginning that we think it's only about partial changes and that the whole system should be looked at in a broader context. We at SVM always advocate systematic monitoring of problems and finding solutions. A new law on the financing of local self-government is certainly needed. I know that's what this is about. I know the representatives of local self-government units are involved. I know there's a permanent conference of cities and municipalities involved. I hope that in the course of next year we will probably get one quality law on funding local self-government and that this area will be systemically arranged. On the other hand, I know that this is primarily not in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, but we expect that the final adoption of the law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina because if we systematically observe the financing of units of local self-government, then it is necessary to clarify what the Republic's income is and what the competences of the Republic, which are the obligations of the Republic, what revenue, original revenue and the assigned revenue of the AP Vojvodina and which are the competences of the AP Vojvodina and, of course, there should be a ratio between income, on one hand, and obligations or jurisdiction, on the other hand. In addition, there should be a sustainable way of funding units of local self-government and it should be clear what is expected of units of local self-government, and its competences from which sources they can finance. In addition to these two laws, we expect the law on fees. That's what we were talking about in the last term. I hope that, in due course, that law will also be proposed to the National Assembly because it is part of the system. We're really trying to take a systematic look at this whole area. Just before I talked about percentages and how much it would belong to municipalities, cities, capitals, as long as it belonged to 2006, as long as it belonged from 2006 to 2011, but we know it's not all about percentages. This problem should also be seen in a slightly wider way. We think the key question is the relationship between the number of employees, the unemployed and the pensioners. If we want fiscal consolidation measures to be as successful as possible, then this factor must certainly be taken into account, and the ratio of the number of employees, unemployed and pensioners is more than negative for the budget of the Republic of Serbia and for the development of our economy. Of the 45 municipalities in the AP Vojvodina, I looked at these data, I didn't look at the whole Republic, but the data, I believe, is similar to the entire Republic of Serbia. So, in the area of the AP Vojvodina, of the 45 municipalities, only in Novi Sad and Subotica are more employees than the number of pensioners. I think it is a key issue and a key issue, not only because of the adoption of this law or these amendments today, but mainly because of the economic development and prosperity of our country, or the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I have this information in the municipalities and, of course, I don't want to talk about it, I don't want to spoil the mood of the MPs, but we all know together in the government and in Parliament what our mission is, what our goal is. The government and implement measures and fiscal consolidations and economic into monetary, and fiscal policies to improve these data, to increase employment, to increase investments both domestic and foreign, to strengthen every type of entrepreneurship, especially agriculture. If that is the case, and we therefore support this government, because of these measures, because of these common aspirations and objectives, then I am sure that these indicators will also be more positive in some foreseeable future. It is certainly good that one of the priorities in the work of the government and improving health, education, tourism, agriculture and the shortest possible worded modernisation and the creation of a decent country should be our common goal, and since this is the aim of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we support the government's work. I mentioned several laws that should be amended in order to have a sustainable system and to make these economic indicators better. I would like at the end of my address to mention another legal act in this case is not about the law but about the regulation. This is a Regulation laying down a single list of developments in the development of the region and units of local self-government. This Regulation was adopted in 2014 and we believe that this Regulation should certainly be amended and clear criteria should be laid down for the transfer of funds to undeveloped municipalities. In order to encourage economic activity to avoid the situation of reducing income from earnings taxes that will take place after the adoption of these changes, to replace this by increasing the property tax, on the one hand, or by competing municipalities to gain the status of the city, which I must say openly what has been happening lately. Of course, I don't mind certain municipalities becoming cities, but it should also be done in a systematic manner and only if there are objective conditions for it. Therefore, it would certainly be important to make a vision of this Regulation, i.e. to determine the percentage of the co-financing of project funds, to amend this Regulation. But to return to the beginning and to this proposed change for all things said we will in the voting day support these amendments to the law, and we hope to work well with the Minister and generally with the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government on all these listed activities and much that awaits us, which does not belong to this group of competences, but falls within the jurisdiction of the ministry, such as the amendment of the Law on National Councils of National Minorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1781	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1782	I thank the chairman, distinguished guests and members of the government of the Republic of Serbia, colleagues and fellow MPs, following media performances and announcements by the Ministers of State Administration and local self-government Mrs Brnabic and the announced reform of the state administration and especially local self-government, I was almost certain that my colleagues from LSV would support this announced reform course, especially given that the minister had repeatedly stressed the principle of decentralisation on which this announced reform would rest. I also believed that the praises expressed by the minister to her predecessor, Mrs Kori Udovici, also refer to the announced decentralisation from the previous mandate, given that the ministry, or the previous minister, left behind a significant capital in the light of recommendations and conclusions from a good conference held in the Palace of Serbia on 4 March this year, titled "State-by-State" as we wish for the country in the future, when only the ministry pointed out that it is now significantly dominated by the state-centre approach in Serbia. These recommendations and conclusions from this conference were to respect the European Charter of Local Administration itself, as well as the elemental principle of subsidioritist and decentralisation, and on these principles should further reform the entire portfolio. And then this happened. It happened that we had been sent to the MPs a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the financing of local self-government, which, unfortunately, and my colleagues from LSV, strengthened further centralisation and in full capacity. Subtracting from local self-government the safest tax revenue, which is a profit tax that accounts for between 29% and 45% of the total tax revenues of all local self-government in the territory of our republic. To make things uglier, a few days ago, and we heard Vujovic, defending this intervention law, or alteration, along with Minister Brnabic, who said one thing for me, which is that the future principle of rewarding good students and punishing bad students will be guided. Absolutely inappropriate for any minister and all government, given that neither the ministers are didacts, nor are the executive bodies of the municipalities and cities, or the presidents of the municipalities and the mayors of their pupils to punish them, because they will not only punish mayors and presidents of municipalities, but all citizens living in the territories of these cities and municipalities. And those who voted for these mayors and the presidents of the municipalities and those who did not vote for them, and for those who did not vote at all and especially those who did not even get the right to vote, are the most vulnerable group, I mean, of course, the youngest population. Because this seduction, I wouldn't say that municipalities and cities are losing, but they're being taken away, and in that sense it would be precise when it comes to vocabulary, not loss, but kidnapping, if I can call it that, it has to feel somewhere. Whether it is taken away one or five, or 15% will reflect on the original powers that should be financed from the original incomes of local self-government, which is what is closest to citizens. Therefore, it will reflect on health, primary health care, education, social protection, security, culture, street maintenance, road maintenance, road and street infrastructure, the maintenance of a healthy water drink and all that falls under the basic original competences of local self-government. I would disagree, what the proposer has stated on page three, in the part that speaks of the analysis of the effects of the law under point two, so it is a question of what the cost of applying the law will create for citizens and businesses, and the answer is that the application of this law does not generate additional costs for citizens and businesses. That is not true, only if we want an objective state and insight into the current situation, a large number of municipalities and cities especially in Vojvodina where I come from, preventing the consequences of this intervention through the amendments to the law even last year when the measures announced as more drastically began to be enormously in debt. Zrenjanin is in debt for nearly 700 million dinars, my Panchevo is in debt for nearly 900 million dinars. That's one-fifth of the city's budget, Pancheva. These loans were taken to provide them with funds precisely for their original competences, for the maintenance and creation of schools, ambulances, street platforms, infrastructure management on the territory of municipalities and cities. I wish I had heard that information from the minister, and I hope that in some coming period we will come up with the situation with the borrowing of all other cities and municipalities in the territory of the Republic of Serbia in the last year. What I also believe is that it does not stand as an argument is the parallel relationship between what you called an increase in local tax segregation, which is seen through an increase in the fiscal deficit, simply put, the wasteers and consumers at the site have led to an increase, i.e. an increase in the fiscal deficit. I would say that the facts stand a little different and I will refer here to the public finance bulletin of the Ministry of Finance, which are valuable and smart people from the National Coalition for Decentralisation summed up in a very socio-economic research, which, as far as I know, has found its way to the Ministry, in which we see that at the level of annual consolidated public revenues, local self-government participates in the continuing downturn from 2012 to 2015, almost 6%. So, we have a continuous decline in local participation, and on the other hand, we have continued growth in the fiscal deficit. Logically, the question arises whether these spenders are actually local consumers or are they central consumers? I'm saying this because the finance ministry's data suggests that out of the 10 dinars collected at the central level, nine remain at national level in 2015, and only one dinar to all local self-government units. More than 170 municipalities and cities on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, including the AP Vojvodina, fall into the single dinar. So, one dinar all together, given that the AP Vojvodina in the finance ministry regime was treated at the level of local self-government. One of the arguments that you have also cited for this intervention legally states that this is a modern fiscal practice that income taxes are dominantly central. When we talk about modern fiscal practice, in my own senses, and it is the attitude of the Member States, for example. The EU, whose community and we are seeking, since announcements and expectations are to open all negotiating chapters by the end of 2018, by 2020 and close, but the picture and attitude of EU countries towards their own clubs is completely different. The best relationship is with the Scandinavian countries, to which the prime minister has so many times urged us to look up to them, and in these Scandinavian countries, income tax is an exclusive income of local self-government units, and separations, i.e. the relationship of national and local authorities, i.e. participation in public revenues is 50:50, i.e. equal. The second group of the vast majority of member states stands out for the locals almost 30%. The only countries that single out less than the Republic of Serbia are Cyprus, Malta, Greece and Ireland. Cyprus and Malta, we can consider them state cities. I wouldn't spread about Greece and its economic situation. Everyone knows the situation. Ireland is quite unknown to everyone, no one has the basic data of what the system of funding local self-government in Ireland is. But I do believe that when we talk about modern fiscal practice, we are talking about the EU, and on the other hand, the data points to something quite the opposite, as well as this similar argument on the local scale, and in fact, I'm afraid the thing is the other way around. In this context, I will use only one piece of information, which is that only one EPS public firm's debt increased twice during this government. In fact, from 2008 to 2012, it was constantly at a level of 600m euros, currently approaching 1.2 billion euros, and only that amount of the EPS debt increase exceeds the annual level of total consolidated public revenues at local level. What was also not clear enough to me in the following reading of the legislator is the process itself, that is, to act until this stage when the bill was put before us, given that on page 4, and under point 5, you were talking about interested parties who had or did not have the opportunity to declare the law. It is mentioned from 3rd to 23rd December 2015, when a public debate was held, but I think it was then in circulation of the second draft law, so that the public debate certainly does not refer to this bill. It is then said that, for the sake of drafting this law, an educated working group, consisted of representatives of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, the Republic Secretariat for Law, the Permanent Conference of Cities and Municipalities, the Fiscal Council, the University of Belgrade. We still don't know what this task force was doing, whether it was doing anything, whether it died of natural causes, since in the next paragraph you are already starting with, however, since an arrangement with the IMF was agreed on in the meantime, it was estimated that an amendment of this law should be made. I'm interested, and I haven't heard that in the introduction of the motion, what happened in the meantime from the establishment of this task force to the arrangement with the IMF? And I wonder how it's possible for an arrangement with the IMF to come together by counting on the support of the MPs? It is kind of an elemental order to at least indicate that it will be proposed to the MPs to discuss this, as I have, I must notice on several occasions, also, that I have seen the manner of most of the new ministers, who mainly speak in the first person of the one about what is the work of the MPs. We'll pass the law, we'll settle that question, so at least elementally now, vocally, to honor this house and our work as MPs, so to speak, we'll propose to the MPs to support our draft laws. Of course, in addition to everything, since I come from LSV, and before this law or before any law, going to meet the new financial year and the new programming budget, I expected to see before us a law on funding in the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, since, as I said, the AP Vojvodina was treated as a local self-government in the Ministry of Finance regime. This is another reason why LSV will not support this law, i.e. amending the law. I would like to really pay attention to the representatives of the Ministry of State Administration and the local self-government to look at the conclusions of their predecessors from this important meeting, which was, I must admit, rare in relation to the discourse of the state when it comes to local self-government and when a number of good solutions have been offered since the establishment of and universityal competences in addition to basic powers, and I have not noticed that these conclusions are on the Ministry's site, as I have, for example, noticed that the only job in the Ministry of State and local self-government has been carried out for more than a year exactly the place for a person to be responsible for decentralisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1783	Thank you. The word has Minister Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1784	First of all, about rewarding bad students or good students, I'd like to say, if we talk here right now... So, as far as rewarding bad students and that's it. The punishment of bad students and rewarding good students, I think we can talk verbally whether it's well said or not, and whether local self-government should be called students or not. I agree, I probably shouldn't, but I think we should look at the essence, and I don't think we can argue about the essence, so I'd rather talk about the essence again than how someone verbally said it. I believe the finance minister probably knows more numbers than he knows the social methods and the social direction, so... Okay, I wouldn't apologize on behalf of the finance minister, but I don't think we can really argue about the essence, and the bottom line is that we have two groups of local self-government. We have a group of local self-governments going into their professionalization and rationalization, even before the state administration started to professionalise and rationalise and before the state administration, or the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, gave them a decision on the maximum number of employees, which they absolutely respect and there are many local self-governments that are below that decision on the maximum number of employees. We also have another group of local self-governments that absolutely did not take into account this Decision on the maximum number of employees and which do not consider whether over 50% of their total expenditure goes to salaries or capital investments. So, in that sense, I think the purpose was, I stand behind that purpose and I will absolutely work with the Ministry of Finance and with Minister Vujovic to go so that, let's say, and what I mentioned earlier, the next time we go to the provisions on how we should reduce the number of employees in local self-governments we do not go in linear principle because it is not fair. That's what they were talking about, because we last year, I said, I think it was a mistake that this government, I think, has no problem admitting and correcting now. You, in a linear principle, punished local self-governments who were local rationalization champions who did good business. Minister Vujovic accepted and said we would try to do something different this year. I think it's fair to those good local self-governments, too. Should we divide them into good students, should we call them students or not? We can't call them students. It's okay to separate that there are excellent local self-governments and there are local self-governments that are completely unoccupied and unprofessional towards their jobs and citizens who have chosen them. In that sense, I'm going to tell you an example of Srlig, which we say is quite a poor local self-government, belongs to the category of devastated local self-government, which has no extra employees, even if there are 22 fewer than the prescribed Decision on the maximum number of employees. He's got over 95% of his income. Let's just say, last year we told them that 3% had to be reduced. So that's what we're talking about, these good local self-governments that are devastated and that we need to help. I think we agree on that. As far as decentralisation is concerned, I absolutely don't think we can say that someone is really as much, with heart and soul, for decentralisation as me and the State Department and local self-government. It was also under Minister Kori Udovicki and today it is. I assure you. It is this principle, as this draft law has changed since December 2015, that I am actually saying that we are serious and deep for decentralisation. One of the things, to go back to public debate, since it was all together, when it was a public debate, was a very broad public debate, and this is a bill that has a lot of controversy in the media, by the local self-government itself. In December 2015, the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities required the withdrawal of the bill from the adoption procedure, and that is exactly what happened. So the local self-governments heard, heard and adopted their objections, and it turned out that we were not going to eight billion, but to 4.8 billion. Is it a lot? I'm sure it's a lot, but was 2011 a lot? Yeah, it was crazy a lot. We go to some principle that may require more sustainable business, but we will be in local self-government to help them with the practice of their colleagues in the local self-governments that did it. So, the new draft, or proposal before you, is the result of this broad public debate and criticism at the expense of the original draft. One of the biggest criticisms was why the income tax was so reduced, it went 50-50. So, more than he was in 2006, when he was 40%. Why are you going 50-50? Local self-government will no longer be motivated to encourage local economic development, to fight for their businesses, primarily for their entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized enterprises. It's adopted and we said okay, it's not going to be 80, it's going to be 74% for municipalities, or 77 for cities, but just because cities have more income than taxes, so that's actually the same thing. The new proposal was presented publicly in the first week of the new government's mandate. I personally had a meeting with representatives of 105 local self-government at the Serbian Palace where we presented this. There was also a Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities and the National Alliance for Local Economic Development NAED which organised the event and at which we received, not unanimous support for this draft proposal, we did not get unanimous support, but we received great support from local self-government for this draft proposal, which expressed one openness because the government accepted the comments. It seems to me that this is a bill that accepts the largest number of comments from all the laws in all the public debates. He's fundamentally changed. As for further decentralisation and conclusions from the conference in March, we are absolutely behind these conclusions. This had to be done because of fiscal consolidation and, after all, because of the arrangement with the IMF. We didn't listen to the IMF with eight billion, but we cut it to 4.8. So, a serious effort has been made by the government to meet local self-government and to be to some extent satisfied with local self-government because most of the income tax has remained exactly in local self-government and, on the other hand, to satisfy the IMF which, you will agree, is very important to all of us to this country. I understand the position of the parties that are against the IMF, but I think this is a serious job for all of us together. We work with a constant conference of cities and municipalities on the decentralisation strategy. I think a permanent conference of cities and municipalities is an organization that has been engaged for years and has been promoting decentralisation. I've found myself with a constant conference of cities and municipalities, since I became minister, now it's two months, five times. I was at a workshop in the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities, with no media presence, to hear and consult with them what needs to be done to encourage decentralisation. So we're totally into it and, once again, what's changed the law is a way to prove that we are. We'll see in the future, so I'll stay open for criticism if that's not true. We've got big problems. How come we don't have big problems? You have local self-governments that have huge discrepancies, and local self-government in Serbia should provide the same number, the same quality of services to its citizens, from Montenegro, which has 1,608 inhabitants to Belgrade. We talk about this with the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities to see how we can make a system that is sustainable, which is financially sustainable. When we talk about local self-governments and another proof that this government is seriously and deeply committed to decentralisation, "Statired conferences of cities and municipalities", I wrote down a sentence from that rally that really meant a lot to me and would be my idea of leadership, which is that local self-governments are not looking for greater generosity of the Republic, but are looking for greater predictability, and that's why the 2006 law was good. Because even when he gave 40% of the income tax, transfers were such that any local self-government could predict and transparently calculate what their transfers would be. It was the least critical of the law at the time. So we're talking here, we're discussing about 2.3% of the cumulative effect on local self-government budgets, and what they're looking for is predictability and that's what we're going to be working on in the future. Predictability, too, has the greatest impact on respect for the budget calendar, which is extremely important, and which has been respected for the past two years, which has not been respected before. So local self-government lived in complete uncertainty. So predictability and respect for the budget calendar is something that we are now doing and that is important to local self-government, which is "The Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities" pointed out that it is important. I didn't make that up. That's what I'd actually end up with.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1785	He tells me that you do not have the right to reply and I respect his assessment. The next speaker, Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1786	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, Mrs Brnabic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to come from something you said at the very end of your previous address, that the government is deeply committed to decentralisation. You're the new minister, and I think it's the first time you've ever been involved in a debate like this. I remember the last debate on amendments to the Law on the financing of local self-government. It was led in 2011. The Liberal Democratic Party has invested its maximum in order not to adopt the law. You are today counting on the support of your ruling coalition, which consists of most of the parties who voted in favour of these changes in 2011. I'm not saying that because I don't think the government should be committed to the idea of decentralisation. I doubt there's that level of consciousness in the ruling coalition. You've been a minister for two months, and there's not much room for a debate between me, as MPs of the opposition party, and you as ministers. I'll tell you what's wrong with this law. That's what you least talk about. That was the problem and the 2011 law. At that time, we were reportedly full of ideas about decentralisation, and in fact it was a coalition trade that gave someone the right to buy their electoral body in 2008, by affecting the policy to be conducted in the area of pensions, and someone at the end of the term gets the right to buy their potential electoral body in the upcoming elections, by amending the Law on the financing of local self-government. What are the consequences? Over 300m euros a year, we lost because of the law. Five years a billion and 500 million euros. This is not such a simple amendment to the Law on the financing of local self-government, this should be the last warning. I hope people will be aware of how important the decisions that are being made here are. A billion and 500m euros is a hole that was made in 2011 because a good law has changed to us today, not because we are committed to the idea of decentralisation, but because we cannot financially consolidate the country without the support of the IMF, change the Law on the financing of local self-government. That's the point. This law will not bring any new concept of rights and obligations to local self-government, will not make local self-government more engaged, will not create assumptions that bad students, whatever we call them, have nothing against them, that they go into another plan, and that some are more competitive, more capable, more useful to the community, on the contrary. What are the effects of the five-year application of this law, growth – 42%, drop in capital investments 30%, increase in the cost of goods and services, these are cabinets, cars, representations by 50%. Where's the basic problem, Madam Minister, in your law? They're changing two members. You said yourself that 2006 was better because it was predictable. Why don't we have that kind of predictability in this amended law? Why did the government not address the criteria that would have a crucial impact on the transfer of budgets to local self-government? They used to be famous, the area of the municipality, the number of inhabitants, the number of students, not to enter these details now. Because of the essential role of the law, in 2011, they had to be moved aside in order for one who had the money to be discreetly able to do what the law was adopted. I will guard your coalition, you allow me to survive the upcoming elections. Who's gonna pay a billion and 500 million euros in five years, I don't know. Now there are no criteria. We kept that principle that someone's discretionary right to decide who's a good student and who's a bad student will have a crucial impact on the fate of local self-government through the transfer of funds to municipalities and cities. It can also be a principle, that someone comes out and says – it's a difficult time. And then we said in 2011 that the crisis and centralised didn't go together, that all the countries affected by the financial crisis in 2008 first began to save through decentralisation. This was also the case in France, Greece, Italy, in all countries that had a wide decentralisation system, it first moved there. All right, then someone should show up and say, "I'm the finance minister, I'm the finance minister, and my assessment will depend on the level of funds that will get a good Srlig or a bad one, not to mention now some other municipality because now is the time. Then as MPs, we need to decide whether or not we will show that trust. This is how it seems to me that the government in its formal intentions is actually dishonest. You're talking about the fact that they're not God knows what kind of savings, that they're not being reached through changes to this law. Every euro is significant, but there are segments of our lives that are also looking for some cuts and changes, and it seems to me that the government has taken a line of less resistance. That's what's wrong. Secondly very important, your initiatives are contradictory, on the one hand the government wants to relax the economy financially, it is said to be considering a policy of reducing tax burdens, and then discussing the possible rise in the untaxable part of the profit. There is a dialogue with the economy, on the other hand, with local self-government. The profit tax is not the most stable financial basis for the development of local self-government, and the fundamental precondition of a modern-organised state is an effective local self-government. So we retain this concept that can't lead us to the goal that we're setting before us. In the end, one logical question, where will people feel the effects of this law? How will this be seen in our daily lives? We're not talking about me, New Belgrade or us here, but we all do politics and it's in the nature of our job to travel. We all know very well what our country is, wait until someone loses that 4.8 billion, will that minus feel on their salaries, will it feel like the cost of services and the purchase of goods that monitors the work of local self-government, or will they feel at capital investments, or investment? Where's the guarantee that it won't put extra pressure on that very important role of local self-government, which she didn't answer not because she doesn't want to, but because she doesn't have the funds, it's those capital investments? How are we gonna control all this? It's not easy to do in your firm, not in a country like this, but we want to change that country. A colleague from the League mentioned the Law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina. We have adopted ten budgets, with our hands down on the topic of the Law on the financing of local self-government, and also, ten budgets, paving hands, on the financing of the AP Vojvodina. Until these basic preconditions are established, we will not be able to achieve those objectives, which the IMF did not impose on us, but, obviously, it is easier for us to say that for ourselves. A major mistake was made in 2011. That's what we need to talk about now. Not with the desire to point a finger at someone, I have no intention of now waging wars with Dinkic or with that party that no longer exists, but then there was no awareness in the country's political life about the importance of local self-government. I don't think she's here today either. This eternal dualism – which is stronger, the republic or the locale, is also very present. The Republic government is negotiating with the IMF, and the bill puts it to local self-government. From the position of local self-government it is very clear what the relationship of power is and that is what must be changed. If someone needs to be sacrificed, and people are already sacrificed, if it's supposed to be a belt, then let's talk about it openly. There are no transfer criteria because we can't predict everything that stands in our way. The minister takes responsibility, so if something is wrong, the minister will bear political consequences for such a thing, and those behind him will also stand. For what happened in 2011, no one was politically responsible, no one. Most of the ruling coalitions make up the parties that voted for the law at the time, and that's what's wrong. I'm just gonna say why it's a mistake. This law, in some ways, must be plowed. This can't wait, an effective law on funding local self-government can't wait some new five years. There's no such thing as theoretical odds. If this is an ad hoc initiative to bypass something, if it's some crisis management, let's say something like that and see when a law will be passed that creates preconditions for effective local self-government, cities and municipalities that will be able to meet those obligations they have to people. For those reasons, we can't vote for the law. In order not to be hypocritical, I'd rather support an initiative that was in motion, which is eight billion, because it's a lot of pressure on the place anyway, but at least it would relax the situation in another position more than it is right now. The worst are half the solutions. My impression is that on the one hand there's a place that's been under a lot of pressure, that it's been going to respect his argument, and on the other hand there's this hole that can't just patch up. If there was a compromise here, I'm not sure that compromise is right.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1787	Thank you. Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1788	First of all, I can hardly blame you very much for your exposure. In most things, I agree with you, honestly. Is the solution pretty much, I said yesterday on the board, I don't know if it's okay on that simantic side, to repeat, ad hoc? The truth is, because we had another solution that was totally unacceptable. You're saying maybe it was better with eight billion first. Maybe it was better. I don't know right now. It would endanger the full sustainability of some local self-government. We could sit down right now and write some new law on Serbia's territorial organisation. I'm not into it right now. We went out, we were pressed over time, it's true, because of the IMF, and I think everyone knows that. I think that's what we talked about in the media. I think that's what I said. We met as much as possible with local self-governments and their comments and again insisted that they have motivation for local economic development, that they have the motivation to support their small and medium-sized enterprises. I'm not talking about investors on purpose, because – what is the probability that a large foreign investor will come to one of the smallest local self-governments? It's not something we need to go to in all local self-government. I'm just saying that they should support their entrepreneurs and their small and medium-sized enterprises, because every new job goes directly to their budget. Okay, no more than 80%, but 74% or 77%, so that was the point. As for each euro is important, absolutely every euro is important, and that is why it was going to make poor municipalities the least lost. We have a Major with 0.9%, Black Grass with 0.5% budget difference, Little Black 0.9%, Shop 0.9%, Frogs 0.9%. It took care to find some mechanism to keep these people working until we can see if, as I would say, the difficult situation in local self-government was absolutely difficult and the Ministry before me, the hand-to-heart, was more concerned, because at that point it was a burning problem, by rationalizing the state administration. That job was done well. We will continue to deal with local self-government because the state administration is quite rationalized. Your numbers have been reached, or we're definitely on the right track. We will now go into training or professionalizing the state service as much as we can. As far as local self-government is concerned, we've had all those years that you're talking about, and I agree with you, but we had a policy where you transferred funds without transfering powers or transferring powers without transferring funds and those two never went together, and they have to go together. So we should sit down and as a ministry relys heavily on the Permanent Conference of Cities and Municipalities and, of course, on colleagues from the Government, the Ministry of Finance, and look at what needs to be done. The primary health care and primary education are also decentralised. Could some of the municipalities have brought that? Some are, some aren't. We have a problem with the debt of apothecary institutions that we also have to solve. So, it didn't go systematically to local self-government, reforming local self-government, and that's why I said that this is a transitional solution, that we're going to go because of the Law on Taxes, and because of the Law on Compensation, which will certainly re-moving some of the budgets of local self-government, and because of the Law on Local Self-Government, where we'll see that we introduce principles of co-operation among local self-government, that they can share some resources because not every local self-government needs a sports inspector, so that they can share resources. Let's see, too, what is the role of the county, which is the role of local communities and with that law and the decentralisation strategy to try to round it up once, and then move on. In addition, I would disagree that municipalities do not have the means to invest, and I am trying somehow during this debate to give you examples of how it can, but not examples from the EU, not examples from some other countries, but examples from Serbia and our local self-government. Nova Varosh, for the last three years, one third of the budget has been allocated for capital expenditure. In 2015, the municipality allocated 39.6% for investments. Yeah, but all we have to do is learn from each other and learn from these good local self-governments. As far as compensation measures are concerned, that's one thing, whether it will affect, how it will not affect the costs of citizens and businesses... There's one thing we haven't talked about here as well, which is certainly a compensatory measure, which is that the minimum profit has been increased from 121 to 130 dinars and that an agreement has been reached within the Social-Economic Council. So, from 121 to 130 dinars will certainly be a compensatory measure, because it's a tax on earnings, right, from some bigger profit, and in that, unfortunately, the worst, the weakest, not the weakest, they're often strong, but the poorest local self-government will also be important. We have an example of what happens when you have centralized public procurement, an example of Belgrade. It is the first local self-government in Serbia to organise a centralised public procurement service, and a total savings of 1.2 billion dinars for centralised public procurement has been achieved over the past two years. By 2013 almost 40% of public procurement in the city of Belgrade was made and completed through the negotiation process. It's 3% through the negotiation process right now. Let's see with the other local self-government -- can we have centralized public procurement and have savings? I said, property tax. Unfortunately, the property tax when it was transferred from republican to local level, which I think today was a very good decision, was transferred because the Republic actually realized that there was not enough capacity to update the database from the locals and to collect it. Local self-government didn't want to do this for the Republic because it wasn't their own income, so it was decided to transfer it to local self-government and to go to local self-government 100%. Not many municipalities have updated their databases and thus increased their budgets because they had updated databases and increased the scope of the property tax. I have an example of the project of municipal and economic development in eastern Serbia, which was implemented with the help of the GIZ of Germany, for nine local governments of Golubac, Bolec, Soko Banja, Majdanpek, Velika Gradište, Kladovo, Književac, Negotin and Zaječar, where they, with the support of the GIZ, hired censusers from the national employment service to collect data from the field. We have an example of the Majdanpek municipality that has collected more than 1,400 tax returns through this project, of which almost 20% for unrecorded immovableities and 20% to 30% of applications relate to immovableities with newly recorded surfaces or updated taxpayer data. Total in these nine local self-governments, the total number of immovableities was 26%. If we're talking about how this is going to compensate by increasing some local tax or some local fee or increasing property tax for citizens, I'm telling you that some local self-government is going to do it because they did it when nothing was changed, but what we need to change and what we need to do now is to promote a little more of these positive examples and focus on those who don't have such professional management of local self-government, we see that these are examples and they apply. I deeply believe there's room for us all to be together and to have better results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1789	I thank the minister. The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1790	Dear Presidents, a respected minister with a team, ladies and gentlemen, what is most important to the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, when it comes to amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of local self-government, was that there was a broad public debate and that the new minister was conducting a serious, intense dialogue with local self-government representatives. As far as we know, there were 105 of them. It is that there has been no full consensus, but in any case a lot has agreed, a lot of suggestions, a lot of comments from those, therefore, whose fate is being resolved in the next period when this legal solution is being implemented. What is also important is that this dialogue was conducted with representative representatives of units of local self-government, so with a permanent conference of cities and municipalities and with a national alliance for local economic development, which is, in any case, one representative level of agreement that we can talk about in terms of the legal solution being much better than before, but we accept that it is not finally, that it is temporary and that it can come to a much, much better solution. In that sense, I would agree with my colleague Jovanovic. When you take a comprehensive look at what only the ministry plans when it comes to legislative proposals, it is said that it will be working on new tax proposals, a new bill on fees and a law on local self-government and what is the cap of all of this, so the decentralisation law, so I am sure that in the next few months, we will have one really holistic approach to the best possible legislative solutions that will affect us to continue fiscal consolidation, but that this change of approach that the ministry and the minister make when it comes to the relationship between the central government and the local government itself, but also an attempt to motivate local self-government and their managers to change their relationship to work, according to functioning, towards creation, both soft and soft, infrastructure and, which is the most important focus of the state and the ministry itself, will also be on how they manage capital. Someone mentioned earlier that the effect of the 2011 law is such that capital investments fell by about 30% and that pay allocations were increased by 42%, which is inadmissible and clearly says that access to the work of local self-government and access to functioning must be very different and that they cannot only wait from the central authorities and negotiate and discuss the level of transfer. There are many aspects and possibilities for action, starting with the creation of infrastructure to attract new investments. Where it is impossible to attract large foreign investors, it is possible to develop entrepreneurship, it is possible to give incentives and work with micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and completely change awareness in the functioning of such local self-government. As you said, I can accept this term of bad and good students, there are municipalities that are responsible for as many as three budgets, there are those units of local self-government that have been showing surplus for several years, which is also one indication that there is a lot of ignorance and that we have a lack of ideas about these units of local self-government, in the context of applying for projects, not only for our state and central government, but also for projects that can be applied to European funds and many other funds. I'm just going to remind you of the fact that we have over 200m euros available to our country only from European funds over one year. Of course, I'm not talking about local self-government here, but part of it can be used to raise their capacity. I'm talking about the USAID. That's not what nobody's talking about. From 2003 to today over one billion dollars, there are opportunities, as you said, there is money, but in any case we lack one new approach, education, new ideas and defining that we cannot expect the state, or local self-government to expect the state to give money, if local self-government itself does not support certain activities. I will quote what the Minister of Tourism, Trade and Telecommunications said last week and a clear message to local self-government: "If your investment in tourism is zero, then the country's investment in tourism will be zero". So in order to support a project, to support certain activities and define the development of certain industries and the development of local self-government, we need to keep in mind that we have clear ideas and, you have given good examples, one good part of the investment goes right into capital investments. What is very, very important, is the fight against the gray economy and it is a fight for better tax collection, while fully, the minister, I agree with you that it is possible to make a greater scope when it comes to paying taxes on property. Why just mention Scandinavian countries and EU countries? Why don't we mention the U.S.? How is local self-government financed there? From the property tax. Of course, we can't apply that if we can't fully apply the practice of countries that are much more modern and much more like societies than we are, not only in this economic sense, but we can find our model of access to the relationship between the central government and local self-government units and the definition of one competition between units of local self-government, but not in who's going to ask for more than the central government of money, but in who's going to attract more investment, who's going to make more choices to create infrastructures of education institutions, social protection institutions, everything that goes naturally with one local economic development and which is of course important for the development of the locals, and therefore for the development of the whole of our country. Also, what is very important is to establish this system if money is transferred, as was done in 2011, of course, to transfer and jurisdiction, and that, as I hope, it will be when a new law is passed and a new law on fees is proposed, to define what it does for a certain fee that a businessman should pay when it is paid, or a certain fee, how much it costs and what kind of benefits it has. For the time being, we have a situation in this area which is still messy and I hope that these announcements, so what you have said is that you are working intensively on making these new laws, and I am sure that we have worked together for many years to reduce this number of parafiscal commitments and to address the situation in that domain, that it will come in full capacity to the benefit of our businessmen, and to the benefit of the most domestic small and medium-sized enterprises, but also to the benefit of large investors. That I'm not taking out tables now, and we're not coming into a situation where when he thanks money, then he's taxing himself, or there's a new fee being introduced, or he's taking a dime off the average for someone who's doing good work, who's doing good business, who's hiring people, because the mance is such that he's got money and that he needs to be taken from him. No, he needs to be supported. He needs to be relieved. Because if it works well, especially those investors who have investments with new technologies, who have that so-called. By spilling the effect, which brings us new technologies, a new system and a model of management, they should be stimulated, and a little less those based on working intensity, with which we each have little problems. What I'd end up with is very important, and these are the compensatory measures you mentioned earlier. This means that if units of local self-government have certain ideas when it comes to capital projects, capital investments, that the state will support it in accordance with its capabilities. In any case, each unit of local self-government can count on the support of the state to have maybe a lot more through these compensatory measures than to get a clean transfer. This is good because it will change the final approach, which will create a single competition between local self-governments that will compete daily to develop their municipality or their city, which will race to develop entrepreneurship and race for each investor, whether it is domestic or foreign. I think it's a key aspect of this bill of yours. Of course, in the day to vote, Serbian Social Democratic Party MPs will vote for this law, with of course full support from you as, I feel free to say to the reformer we want to perform as soon as possible what he has drawn up and what he has been doing for several years, both in the civil sector that he has led and in certain organisations of the public private partnership, both now and on the other hand, but of course in co-operation with parliament and other partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1791	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Dejan Šulkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1792	Thank you. Madam President, Madam Minister, dear fellow MPs, today we are in a position to discuss the Law amending the Law on the financing of local self-government, which has been in place since 2007. I would like to begin by saying that this is the first major in this assembly, so, after the constitution of the Assembly and after the government's election, the first legislative project that we are considering and, as you said in your reasoning, the first so-called budgetary redistribution in this assembly session. It is from the point of view of positions, i.e. from local self-government positions, and as such is not an encouraging announcement of future legal projects. As for the existing law, or the applicable law on funding, which has been in place since 2007, I am also speaking of, of course, all the changes that were in the meantime, which predicted 80% of local self-government and 70% of the city on the one hand, and on the other hand, the Republic of 20 and 30% for the Belgrade area. The reasons for its adoption, and I am speaking from the position of someone who has been president of the Great Plan for almost 12 years, and I am a modernist, to say, the passing of laws and all these events, it was a motivational law for local self-governments that encouraged competitive ones, and I would say the entrepreneurial spirit of local self-government, which is certainly necessary to deepen and encourage further. The municipalities were thus motivated to plan development, were motivated to invest in infrastructure and thus directly contribute and encourage local economic development. For example, for example, the Great Plan of the earlier years, I would say to the good services and good conditions it has given investors, both domestic and foreign, without the state's grant to create jobs, really achieves significant effects and improvements in the budget when it comes to this budget revenue. So, share in the profit tax. Now with this law in some way the effects that have been achieved in the Great Plan, so the state is operating on the effects of the municipality, so to speak, in some ways itself. These effects of this fiscal decentralisation, I think, were excellent for both the municipalities and the state, and above all for the citizens. Often amendments to the Law on the financing of local self-governments spoken of, and in the end you say that there will be some changes, whether through the form of amendments to the law or new ones, you are not really clear enough either, but I don't think it's possible to predict it at this point. In any case, it represents one blow to local finances and a source of one uncertainty and instability. After all, that's what you were talking about. On the one hand, local self-government itself, and on the other hand, I would say business clientele when it comes to development projects. Maybe someone will ask a question - why is it such a source of uncertainty and instability for local self-government? You well know, at least you understand that planning for sustainable local economic development takes at least five years and more, so you can't plan anything shorter, and for five years it takes for a roof plan documentation, I mean a spatial plan, a general regulation plan and other low-level plans for up to two years, that it is necessary to produce technical documentation and obtain permits for up to one year, that public procurement budgeting is also up to one year. Of course, it takes some time to realize the project itself. In such conditions, when in a few years the municipalities plan their development and when they count on these funds, you will indeed agree with me, it represents in some way, at least causing one hesitant. I believe that the damage was not for anyone, nor was this system jeopardising macroeconomic stability, because in the circumstances in which it was brought and planned was not crucial, and it seems to me that there was no obstacle to macroeconomic stability. On the other hand, I understand you and I, you represent one portfolio in the government, local self-government and, of course, within the overall government policy to ensure macroeconomic stability, you have, as I would say, the obligation to arrange in one area for it to be compatible with government policy. But I don't think so, but I'm not asking you to answer that, of course, I wouldn't say that in other areas and other restaurants, perhaps not as much as you are making efforts, making savings, and that rationalization is being done to contribute to the macroeconomic stability of our country in other places. On the other hand, I would mention that in the previous term, even earlier than 2012, this law applies almost as much as those authorities that have passed it. So I'm talking specifically about this 2011 amendment, which you're saying was fatal to macroeconomic stability. I think now that the issue of survival or the preservation of macroeconomic stability, or the sustainable deficit that's being talked about, I'd say 4.8 billion dinars, really doesn't seem convincing. As for the amendments to the law, I'm going to use one metaphor, so you don't mind me, I think this represents another one in a series of local finance trimmings. So, after reducing the general rate from 12% to 10%, then abolishing some local fees, so I'd say administrations in policy control of the price of municipal services, therefore, there needs to be some control, but there are cases, and I've been able to face such conditions, where local self-governments are conditioned in local municipal price policies that you simply can't meet the costs of providing municipal services. Why? Because it's all being viewed globally. You are suggesting that there will be more detailed consideration, that local self-governments may be categorized in some way according to the current liquidity situation and that the measures will be measured according to the state in those categories. I'm really surprised that you, as someone who has been dealing with local self-government for several years, and I would say, it's no offense, in the eyes of people you represented your own kind of unionist local self-government in some earlier period, and I suppose you've been keeping an eye on macroeconomic stability, which is important for the sustainable development of local self-government and that you didn't warn at the time, at least I didn't see it, as the president of the municipality, you didn't warn the central authorities that they should reform, as I would say, this system of distribution of funds, or income from profit tax in such a way, or perhaps in a different way, not to worry about the state register, but because you cared about local self-government. I believe that you are well-versed in the state of local self-government because in just a few months it is obvious that something in the circumstances, therefore, I am not talking about your beliefs, they are yours, but something in the circumstances is so variable that you are now representing and defending yourself in this way and I believe that you are doing so with conviction – the change of this law. Furthermore, I would say that you didn't do it today, but by the representatives of the authorities is in preparation, as I would say, this law and in some kind of public debate, so it could be heard from some MPs today, that it is underestimating the reduction of income by local self-governments because it is not as much as it is necessary and you are a guide to an example from the end of last year when it was supposed to be eight billion, and then we should be satisfied because it is not so much or, on the other hand, I repeat everything you said, not as much as the IMF asked for, for reasons, of course, which I'm going to talk about later. And in that regard, it's said to be a symbolic reduction. Well, I'm sorry, if that's a symbolic reduction for local self-government, then that symbol of 4.8 billion is a far smaller symbol for the state budget than it is for local self-government. I mean, it's been in our society for maybe a long time already seen model, that, as with the reduction in wages and pensions that preceded the reduction, I would say, dissipating one fear or one psychosis that maybe we can run out of everything and then we should be satisfied if we stay with 10% reduction, I'm talking about a reduction in wages and pensions. Also, the IMF's asking for 7% in electricity collection, we're increasing 3% and somewhere, so we're always swimming at that pleasure that we've managed to play with some arguments, I guess, the IMF. I believe that in such an atmosphere and the dialogue that you are talking about with local self-government, that if you were conducting a dialogue, you were talking to representatives of foreign conferences of the city, you were talking to representatives of local self-government, presidents and other officials, but in some atmosphere you talked about, I'm not saying that you created it yourself, but it exists and we simply can't ignore such a circumstance. The basic reason, I'm talking about an explanation for the proposed amendments to the law, you've considered, it seems to me, the state register, but on the other hand, in the very explanation that we've been given for the proposed amendments to the law, so I'm not talking about your discussions, because we've been preparing for this session on the basis of the material that we've received, and of course it's not possible to put all the discussions into account and I just think that in the explanation you didn't talk so much about the consequences of local self-government. The truth of the will, in addition to the general opportunities in society that are reflected in local self-government, therefore, it is inevitable, for the state of local self-government are to some extent responsible and holders of local functions, local authorities, it is doubtless. So I'm not talking about any party, it might take a long time, but on the other hand, and that local policy, and that's what you should be working on. Local policy should not be created in party headquarters, but should be created at a local site. I'm not sure, you're the one who mentioned it, I don't know why, but you probably needed something to justify yourself and say you weren't a member of any party. I'm sorry, I don't think you wanted it to be offensive, but I don't see that it can be an advantage in objectivity and objective consideration of the situation. If you had appreciated these circumstances, it seems to me, at least according to what it says in the light of this law, although you said something in the discussions, I don't think you've made enough difference between progress and, I would say, failure, on the other hand, in local self-government because there really are such opportunities. One of the important credentials, I would say, which preceded the adoption of this law is the often called "local self-government" by the central authorities that local self-government is a matter of unhappiness, corruption, crime, ignorance, inability, likely to have it somewhere, but it really cannot be generalized. On the other hand, it is also mentioned as one of the reasons, so marginal, but I don't think it's irrelevant, that some local self-governments have surplus budgets and that they tend to transfer dedicated funds at the end of the financial year as untapped in the coming year. You well know that this is happening, but it's not always the result of unhappiness, incompetence or indifference, but it can also be a consequence of some circumstances. For example, when competitions for the distribution of local self-government programmes are discussed from the central state level, these competitions are often delayed, and the funds are allocated in the autumn or late of the year, when it is really physically impossible to implement even the procedure, and it is physically impossible to implement the project. On the other hand, if we talk about this kind of fairness and solidarity, so does the state budget, the transfer of untapped assets, and the state seems to be paying for years, it's not a question for you, for the finance minister, that the state pays millions of dollars for the agreed and undrawn credit funds because there are no projects or projects are not implemented with good dynamics. That, of course, represents a huge budget expenditure. I'm sorry. Someone's responsible for that. Because someone is responsible, you have to pay, now on the other hand you have to provide the funds. Allow me from my angle, to be subjective, perhaps with these means and part of that expenditure will be settled. The basic reason you cited in the explanation of the redistribution, as you said, in favour of the Republic. So less municipalities by 6%, cities by 3%, and Belgrade by 4%. I believe that, in addition to this reduction in the percentage, and I want to say something about it, although I talked to Mr. Ivan on the board yesterday, that besides this percentage reduction and structurally, we have three structures -- municipalities, cities and the city of Belgrade, you have also structurally damaged municipalities because the municipalities in these 90 existing billions, as you have marked them in the table, have 23.39%, and now in these 85 billion have 22.86%. So by 0.53% lower in the structure of the municipality, the city of Belgrade is 0.14%, and the cities are honored with 0.67% structural increase. It is clear to me, Madam Minister, that this is about projections and that these projections may not be realized, perhaps they will be more favourable for local self-governments, so that depends on the number of employees the trend will be, on the one hand, and on the other hand, sorry, depends on the average salary, because it is not the same average salary at the level of Serbia as a whole. You know very well what the odds are in Serbia. There I would use one of the sayings disillusioned in our people to get the impression that it was in the system, until one of them is dead, the other cannot be lighted. Mr. Ivan tried to give an answer on the board, and he justified that cities are more attractive to investors and that they may have stronger support at this start, but if we increase the difference between the Ministers in this way, then the advantage of the cities will be even greater and for the rest of the municipalities smaller. That's how you took cities to protect them and assigned them about 580 million dinars more, so structurally. Furthermore, in your explanation, you are saying that this current law is not in line with modern fiscal practice and is not followed by the transfer of new competences to local level. I was coerced from the corner of the president of the municipality who was in the Grand Plan of Presidents in three terms that I had to deny you. So, we're talking about formal competences, the responsibilities that have been passed on formally, and in particular I mean primary health care, when municipalities took over their founding rights over their homes, I don't think there's any additional means for taking over primary health care. I'd like to pay particular attention and I assume you know that, and something Mr. Alexic said about that, that there are responsibilities that are informally passed on to local self-government. I'll just give you some examples. Joint investment with the EPS in the low-voltage network and trafo cells. No one can get abandoned pipes to make local self-government do it. To be clear, I've been on my own, pressured by the needs of the citizens of the Great Plan to sign a joint construction contract together with the EPS, and it's really an engagement of large-scale funds. Furthermore, we have a telecommunications, distribution pipeline network, and even joint investments with "Serbian Railways". So, this informal transfer, if I may say so, of the arrangements of jurisdiction, is all good for the overall improvement, but something the municipalities must give up in order to invest in systems for which the state established public enterprises to care for, to which it has entrusted some revenue and of course which should build and maintain that infrastructure. I would especially point to another issue in this first part, which is a reduction in public sector wages, I mean employees in municipal administrations and municipal and city administrations and in public enterprises whose salaries are financed from the level of local budgets. So it's about the expenditure that's being financed from the local level. Employees' salaries, whose salaries are reduced, are financed from local budgets, but this 10% reduction, so we're talking about gross amounts, is not left with local self-governments. If the state wanted to protect local budgets to spend less on salaries, the funds should remain local self-government, while at the same time determining the purpose of these funds and being used for local development projects. This has been reduced by 10% to employees in municipal and urban administrations and in public companies, and the amount of this reduction in gross is transferred to the republican budget. So, the Great Plan alone, based on some 17, 18 million dinars on the annual level, has been denied. It's about a permanent reduction, we don't know if it's going to change anything, whether it's going to come back, whether the state is going to change the law, you're not announcing anything, but believe me, everyone's talking about some now minimal reduction. But the large number of decreases in continuity for several years in mass is really enough, so there's a vision that if we take a little bit of each of these municipalities out there and local self-government can fix the situation, that's for sure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1793	I thank you, MP. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1794	Thank you. I'll try to be very brief, so I don't take too much time with the MPs, and I think I've already taken a lot of it. First, when we talk about the 2011 law, and you say it was one motivational law. I mean, that the intention might have been that it was motivational, not to say that the intention was political, that we wouldn't go that far, but to say that the intention was motivational. Perhaps the intention was motivational, but he had no effects, these were not effects, and as Mr Jovanovic said at the beginning of the exhibition, they were that expenditures were increased by 42%, expenditure on goods and services increased by 50%, and that capital expenditures were reduced by 29%. So that was the result of that law. I remember that in 2011, and I also hoped that from 40% to 80% of the share in the profit tax would be a motivational factor, that they compete in capital investments. When you say often changing the law, yes, I said this wasn't the end. The warning that it is not good is correct and thank you for it, it is constructive and absolutely agreeing with you, I just wanted to point out that we agree completely and that we are going to work hard because it is necessary to fix this area of action, I don't know what to say, this whole sector, that we are going to try to do it, not to change things, not to go into serious announcements, public debates, watching what effect it will have, the impact on the business of local self-government and business of the economy. Here's how much I as a minister can promise, I promise, and thank you for pointing that out, it's really a constructive remark. When you say we're trying to play the IMF, I don't think it's constructive because I think if someone is trying not to play the IMF, international institutions and expectations of Serbian citizens, it seems to me to be this government. It is a hard road, and it is hard to bring the IMF's demands, which are unfortunately necessary, and said the MP from Triestenik that the IMF is there as a means when you need help, as he said, a special case. The truth was, at that time, at that time Serbia's economy was such a case, and if it wasn't for us anymore, it was necessary for the IMF and now we have to push it through 2018. What the IMF is asking for, local requirements, needs of Serbian citizens, and as shown in this draft bill, the government is doing very well, and it is a very difficult task. As for justifying whether I belong to a political party or not, I didn't justify myself, I think it was in some context. Certainly, sitting in this government speaks enough of who I support. In the end, I'd just say that some municipalities have to give up building local infrastructure. I wouldn't agree again, but well, maybe I didn't understand, anyway, I'm asking the question where the public-private partnerships are. We have a law on public private partnership that's not bad. For a few years, we haven't used private partners' finances to build local infrastructures, sewerage networks, heating systems, roads. So far, this has been successfully done, let's say, one example, by Stara Paz, who has improved local travel infrastructure, I think, through a public-private partnership and is now looking for a partner for sewage infrastructure. Anyway, thank you for your generally constructive attitude.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1795	The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1796	Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, the PS-NSS-USS parliamentary group will vote in favour of the proposed amendments to the Law on the financing of local self-government. First of all, Madam Minister, I want to thank you for one absolute honesty here, and that is the fact that you have clearly stated that this measure that you have proposed together with the Ministry of Finance is the measure that has been extorted. The second reason for congratulation is that you did not listen to the IMF in that volume that you mentioned with the expectation that eight billion savings in this position would be achieved through this measure, but far less, because Serbian citizens, and I too, personally, are more important to the position of the republican government. We voted here for this government because we expect it to be absolute stability in the Republic of Serbia. We expect you to achieve what is a very difficult task in the coming period, which is a certainty and predictability that implies stability. It won't be easy for you. Obviously, all the topics that were launched through earlier discussions are just talking about it. The least of the problems, the least of our concerns are exactly the simplest solution to what is today ahead of us, and what is waiting for us in the future shows how complex the problem is, the complex way in which the issue must finally be resolved is the clear distinction between the functions of the republican government and the function of local self-government when it comes to citizens of the Republic of Serbia, or what is it that the Republic of Serbia as a service of citizens must provide, and what local self-government must provide. It is good that in this move you have also turned away with a linear reduction, because solidarity in Serbia cannot be achieved in any other way anywhere in the world. It can be viewed from this and that angle from certain municipalities in various ways, whether certain management of local self-government in the previous period was more successful or less successful, but from the point of view of a citizen who should not suffer the consequences of the success or failure of local self-government management, I think this is the only possible methodology that could be applied at this point. If you hadn't put your throat into the strawberries, it would have shown the information you've reported here. I am absolutely certain that, with minimal efforts, each of the municipalities, perhaps except Bor, whom you mentioned as one of the perhaps biggest losers in finance in this part, with minimal efforts, a little more attention and savings within their resources that they already have, and that citizens do not feel it to the least possible extent. You know, it's a constant drive for a decentralisation advocate to reach the level of decentralisation that every local self-government becomes a small state. I'm afraid that, come on, I'll accept that it was a motivational intention in 2011 with the adoption of these changes and the addition of the law to local self-government, that I might even think it was intentional, but the path to hell is paved by good intentions. You know, allowing local self-governments to be in charge of credit, and without any responsibility for leaving local self-government representatives behind for citizens who were tasked with caring for and allowing them to have a more decent and better life in Serbia is simply something that needs to be changed in the future. We cannot allow the situation to be ruled by one municipality that had a very large budget and that, after these elections, because it is punished in the locale, is no longer in the management of the municipality, that the municipality has blocked almost all accounts, that the multiple budget is in charge for several years in advance, that there is no drinking water, that the municipalities have shut down the phones, etc., etc., without any responsibility. It cannot be allowed for the central government and the Republic to allow such behaviour, because in the end, the loss that was made, this responsibility will not be paid by anyone but by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, whether in solidarity, so they must pay it in full because neither the residents of the city nor the municipalities are guilty because someone did not care how they operate. It is very important and it will be difficult to reconcile what the authorities and obligations of the Republic are, and what the authorities and obligations of local self-government are. You know, we also have positive examples of whether or not they're positive. We have local self-government that, because citizens in their territory are troubled by something that the Republic should have long ago done and fulfilled through their investments, they assume that commitment to the expense of some other opportunities and benefits that they could offer to citizens. For this reason, not just you, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia expects you to have a very serious and responsible task, as it is systemic regulations, system laws that need to be incorporated, combined to make it work properly. I am for decentralisation, but for decentralisation that will not deny Serbian citizens certain rights. The consequences of calling decentralisation, which occurred through these financial effects that followed over the past five years, in some municipalities is catastrophic. A mechanism must be found and cannot be allowed to local self-government, no matter how much anyone claims to be restricting local self-government and stifling local self-government in some kind of development, to be uncontrollably indebted and therefore, without any responsibility, to any new government, whatever it may be, leave something that can't be handled without the Republic intervening and with enormous financial resources repairing it. In the end, it is again linearly paid by all Serbian citizens in one way or another. Responsibility for everything that seems and what is done must be clearly established in this country. Among other things, it's good to get it out of local self-government. I expect in the coming period that you will have enough opportunities and time to prepare the appropriate concept of systemic changes in all laws to make this happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1797	Thank you. The word is Mira Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1798	I would like to say that we will support the amendment of the Law on the financing of local self-government. As we have supported the difficult fiscal consolidation measures, which were necessary in the previous period, and we know that the pensioners have submitted the most, but these measures have brought their results. So, we deeply believe that these amendments to the laws that are before us lead to an even better financial consolidation towards the necessary measures. Whether it was necessary to listen to the IMF and have those eight billion savings, that's the question now. In any case, the figures are ahead of us, 4.8 billion is a large sum, it will complete the central budget quite safely, but it is also the fact that in 2011, when the amendments to the law were made, we all know why they were implemented. At that time, alleged fiscal decentralisation preceded the elections that followed. Of course no one's going to say that now, but that's the way it is. The fact is that it could then be supported by potential investments, but it did not occur. The wages have increased. So we all know what happened in that previous period. It is necessary to finally put order into finance. This is one way to do it. What encourages me in all of this, I'm not going back to numbers, we all have material in front of us, you've talked very exhaustively about it today, as well as my previous colleagues, but what's important, it's really the energy that you have here and that we all feel together. I want you to succeed in everything you've drawn up now, and we're going to try to be as supportive as we can. So much for PUPS.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1799	Thank you. Any other authorised representatives? The word has the People's MP Goran Jesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1800	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, I think we have here...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1801	I just forgot to let you know we're not on direct transmission. We've been informed by RTS that we'll be going into a delayed transmission.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1802	... We have one understanding here. In the morning part of the session and in just two months before that, there was a candidate for prime minister and then prime minister, we heard that our current account situation was the best in this country's history, that we solved all fiscal problems. We heard this morning from individual representatives of the ruling party that Serbian citizens live dramatically better, live excellently, and then to my general surprise, the first law that comes after seven months into this parliament is a law that deprives some of the funds to local self-government units in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. You and I know very well that this is not the original income of local self-government units and that it's totally atypical that this kind of income in this form belongs to local self-government units. This income in developed European and US local self-government is not so distributed. I must say that I participated in this intervention at the time of 2011, unlike today's intervention by representatives of local self-government who have their representatives in parliament, when Minister Dinkic denied us the 40 billion then. We had to react somehow and save local self-government, so one of these proposals was to focus this amount of money on local self-government units. The reason we are discussing today and where most of the conversators in this room debate with you and what you are discussing with us is the non-transparent division of the most important and most valuable income for local self-government, which is the ongoing transfer of non-intentional, which comes every year after the adoption of the republican budget. This is what was dislocated in 2011, but I ask you why four years has not changed in this House with a ruling party that has an absolute majority over the past four years? Why are we coming back today to talk about mistakes in 2011 when we're in 2016 and getting ready for the budget? We've heard from representatives of those parties who support the government that it's an unsustainable thing. I'm asking you when will that change? What's my problem with this law? The problem is that you understand for yourself, and that he's fast, that he's not celebular, that he's half-dogged and that he doesn't solve problems. I think Cedomir Jovanovic here has said that we must arm the time when we will pass the new law. I'm sure you can do it, but you have to do it as soon as possible, so we don't come back here to criticise ourselves, that local self-government representatives, who are dominant today in front of a political party, are again criticising the authority that passed some laws in 2011. Second thing, I'm dividing municipalities into good and bad. You've only been here two months. The role and task of the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government is also to punish those individuals from the provincial Secretariat who do not comply with the law. It is impossible for anyone to be in charge of Serbia without the consent of the finance ministry, if that exceeds the level of the budget that was achieved last year. If someone did that, they'd have to answer. We also have a situation today that in most local self-government, where there was a change in government six months ago, we have an increase in the number of employees. As far as I know, the law has not been amended and the Regulation on increasing the number of employees in the authorities of the state administration and public undertakings has not been amended. If we can't get into the Clinical Center of Anesthesiologists, we don't have surgery for a few months, then let us, we can't even receive the political glue posters that came from the winning party to be some officials in the local administration today. And it's your job to stop it. What have we experienced in this process in 2011 until today? We've experienced a devastation of public finances in local self-government. Yeah, 4.8 billion doesn't mean anything to the Republic, that's about 40 million euros. I suppose dozens of sides in the budget can find savings smarter, deny that money than deny the units of local self-government. On the other hand, this money is huge for local self-government units. It is that these are small percentages, but these are opportunities that I will read to you afterwards, total social contributions on an annual basis to citizens of these local self-government units. I only say that for those local self-governments, which is again your problem that you have to solve, which is in most local self-government, you don't have a website and you don't have budget transparency, which is in the 21st century, you'll allow, one serious non-transparent thing, first of all, for citizens who need to control how funds are spent. Since that Dinkic law, where we as local self-government have been cut off by 40 billion funds, we have tried to compensate with this donation aimed at disrupting local self-government to invest as much as possible in infrastructure, to fight for investors, to have, not only the SIEPA, the Minister of Economy, the Regional Secretary, the President of the District Government and the Prime Minister, but to have a bunch of people fighting for investors, first of all, to solve the problem of unemployment, and thus to improve the financial situation of their local self-government. At the end of 2012, the state has denied local self-government units by six billion more in various ways through the removal of parafiscal revenues. I'm reading to you the data of the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities. In May 2013, income tax was reduced from 12 to 10%, which automatically affects a reduction in incomes that were around 20 billion on that basis. At the same time in 2013, this famous immovable income tax, which is a marginal thing in relation to this part of the job, was taken away, that part of the income was taken away from local self-government units. Because of the 2014 ministry's failure by the minister himself at the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities where, I think, you were, too, that he forgot to transfer 3.7 billion. I hope that was the reason for the replacement of then-Minister Krstic. Of course not, but I hope so. The man admitted to forgetting to transfer funds to local self-government units. Then there goes hell, then the famous new Construction Act, where we first integrated the compensation for the use of city building land, and later we threw out an amazing thing by the new Construction Act, which is paying communal taxis for local self-government units, and those who built the infrastructure were left without serious incomes. After that comes the famous law, where we have heard today several times to put out of force, and that is the law on new legalization, where you simply devastated all those citizens who honestly and in accordance with the law took out building permits, paid communal fees. You punished them, and all those who have violated the law backwards have amnesty and allowed a few dozen euros to legalise their facilities. You haven't explained to them that you'll never make them infrastructure, because there's no such money. It's a chronological situation from 2011 to today. This isn't an excessive problem today, but the problem is when you put it all on the pile and add it up to over 50 billion dinars that were taken away from the units of local self-government. Do local self-government units have good money? Not the biggest number, and that's not the problem. That's unfortunately your problem. You have to control them. When I was doing my job, the first, second division couldn't have crossed 10%, and that was the political goal, the 50% investment. Maybe it was a different time, maybe it was other people, but that was the political goal. Today you have hundreds of thousands of new employees in the last six months, and that will reflect on the budget when you see the next year in units of local self-government AP Vojvodina. What it looks like to the units of local self-government that have a transparent budget, so we could have pulled it out over the past few days. Belgrade will be denied nearly two billion, which is also the highest unit of local self-government, you noted, will run out of funds. King 41 million, Nis 157, Novi Sad 265, Subotica 71 million, Sremska Mitrovica 34, Kragujevac 165, Indjija 50, Stara Pazova 54, Baka Palanka 46, Vrnjačka Banja 14. It's a local self-government unit, I say again, where there's data. Paracin for almost 29 million. What's the problem, and you've talked about it several times, and I think there's a dose of misunderstanding that we need to correct, compensation measures by any authority is institutional corruption. We can't have a situation to say if someone started the project we'll help you finish it in the future. Well, I hope every unit of local self-government doesn't have one project, but there are dozens of projects that have been launched that have been projected through one single possible way if these are capital investments through a capital budget that isn't for a year but for five. If there is no problem then, it means that the past few years in Serbia have absolutely nothing capitalised, but we cannot possibly allow one ministry, one minister, one Prime Minister, Prime Minister, Prime Minister of Vojvodina, the Serbian Prime Minister has the discretion to decide who he will give the funds to. That's what we all agreed on here, because it wasn't right under the 2011 law. Right? Why do we want to continue this principle now? Who's going to measure, what projects are they going to start, who are qualified and who aren't qualified? On the other hand, the downsizing of a Leskovec or Kragujevac is 200 and a few million, and then we transferred a billion to the discretionary power of the finance minister, probably to the same Kragujevac, to the same amount of money to help this Kragujevac, we transferred a billion to the new Sad. You want to explain to me New Sad, a city that can't, a city that can't finance itself, if it can't Black Grass, if I can't do that to some undeveloped municipalities of the Plandište, the citizens, etc. I'm sure the new one can do it. The fiscal council gave its opinion, I read it carefully. I'll read for those who didn't do it, this second paragraph that is the essence of this debate. It says – in the conclusion of the Fiscal Council we negatively assess that the proposed legislative changes do not address the expressed horizontal imbalances between individual local self-governments on a personal non-objective, unpredictable and non-transparent system of republican transfers to local budgets. This problem remains the priority of fiscal policy at the site that needs immediate resolution in the coming period. It's the essence of this whole thing or we're fine, we have enough money, don't take from local self-government or it's not so great, and we don't live well, but let's agree we took this, but let's get the law and get in after the new budget in a transparent and clear way how we're going to share these funds. A few more things, I read your statement carefully, I think it was in August in front of NAED, where you, from the Permanent Conference on this public debate, say one thing that we can agree on, that maybe it's not quite true, that if we reduce what is a motivational thing for income to the local self-government unit, that this will improve the activity of local self-government in attracting investment and new employment. That's not true. This measure wasn't, as you definitely did, and that's what you're telling us with the numbers it wasn't even when it became 2011. Obviously, we have a more serious problem here, and this problem is not financing, and this battle about decentralisation has been going on since 2000, we have fought together in that fight, many of you here and we have managed to take big steps, but we haven't finished this process. This process is stuck in a political sense. He's politically stuck, the moment we gave up the concept of the direct mayor's election, when we don't know who's responsible. When we have people in this case one man who is mayor in all the cities of Serbia, we have a situation that of course we do not have competent, responsible and high-quality people at the local level. We're the problem, people. If I were, in the end, Alexander Vukic, I would probably reduce the transfer of certain units to local self-government, the City of Belgrade, knowing these people who exercise power on his behalf. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1803	The word has the People's MP Aleksandar Martinovic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1804	I agree with Mr. Jesic, and I really don't want to be politically scarred, indeed, Mr. Jesic is the problem of people, but you said one amazing thing, the government of Serbia gave Kragujevac out of the budget, gave Leskovac, and I'm sorry, who made those debts? He made a gentleman behind you in Kragujevac. Who made a debt in your India, a billion, if I'm not mistaken for 500 and something million? Who made a debt in Becic's Vervain of a billion 550 million? A democratic party. What should the Serbian Government do? To let the citizens of Indjia, Kragujevac, Vrbasa die of hunger because someone before them had non-domestic, irrationally managed public finances at the level of local self-government. Don't create that artificial rivalry between the state and local self-government. It's not a state-wide set of municipalities and cities. This money that, as you say, is being cut or taken by municipalities or cities, whose budget is it going to? To the budget of the Republic of Serbia. What's being financed from that budget? Our army, the police, health care, teachers, teachers, educators, teachers, etc. So, we're not giving that budget to a foreign country, but here is a key issue -- who has put the Serbian government in a situation that has to intervene to save budgets from local self-government because someone has systematically robbed them since 2000? How many projects in Serbia are there that you have talked about that have started, which have never been realised, where jobs have been paid, and never been completed.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1805	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1806	You remember that famous Hetherland castle that was supposed to be a home for children distracted by development, which is a ruin where there's no roof, no windows, except it's about to collapse.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1807	I thank my colleague Martinovic. The word has the People's MP Goran Jesic, right on the line. Make a deal between you two, you can't both. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1808	Thank you. I'm confused again, whether we're living well and we don't need to take the money, as you said several times today. Do we live great, whether this government and the governments of Alexander Vukic pay salaries and pensions for the first time or if nobody ever paid their salaries and pensions again, it's not clear to me. Let me remind you, when you're in your populated place where you're president of the Assembly today and you're sitting in this room, untransparently paid money, I was rebelling even when the DS did it. As for Indjia and 500 million that, probably 500 million, whoever didn't do anything knows he had to be in debt, property remained several billion values, the city's own building land itself, in a public-private partnership. You can easily check that. There's a fair in Ruma, so that's where you can cry, not here. I forgot to say one thing. Minister, you said a few things about a public-private partnership. It's in Paz's totally wrong. Those investments that are supposed to be are investments that are waiting for us where we can be. These are wastewaters, these are dumps in Belgrade and dumps in Serbia, where our first priorities are, but therefore conditions must be created by the government of the Republic of Serbia. We've got some safe money that someone like a private spends and makes sure of it. That's why we need to prepare the projects. We don't have them right now. It's not the fault of local self-government, it's supposed to be working on it. Once again, I must tell you, you must make it clear to me because of the citizens of Serbia, although this transmission is no longer seen, do we live better or do we not live better, Mr Martinovic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1809	The denominator, I can't give you a replica, he didn't mention you. Any city mentioned, if anyone was mayor... (Goran Ćirić, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Kiric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1810	Article 104 is injured, which says, if the MP in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly is offended by an MP who is not a member of the same parliamentary group, stating his name and last name, which is not indicated, or function, that is, citing and misreading his presentation, the MP to whom the presentation relates shall have the right to replication. In this case, Mr Martinovic also spoke in his presentation, mentioning Kragujevac mentioned Mr Verko, who is sitting behind Mr Jesic and I think it is necessary to give the MP the right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1811	Mr. Kiric, as you read the Rules of Procedure, means that at least two conditions should be met, to say the name and last name and to say something offensive to the MP. I often apply the condition to say at least one of these examples, that it states that it would give an MP the right to reply. If the mayor owes the city, it might have rights and grounds for replication. As far as I know about any task of local self-government units, the Assembly gives consent. So, from all that, it is an individual's responsibility, but to a political party that then exercised power. So, based on all this, I don't see Mr. Stevanović being called. (Goran Ciric, from the place: So what is so terrible, that you give an opportunity to answer. ) It is about the debts of the Vrbas, which other cities have. If you want the Parliament to make a statement in voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1812	Minister Ana Brnabic has the advantage.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1813	First, Mr. Jesic, you and I have been working on decentralisation in this country for a long time, and I agree with a lot of things. There are, of course, things I disagree with, that this proposal, which is in the assembly today, does not solve a single problem, I would disagree. He certainly doesn't solve all the problems and he doesn't solve the big problems. He's dealing with some problems. He solves part of the problem and he's solved one big thing, which is that there's been a positive conclusion on the revision of the IMF arrangement, which I think is terribly important for this country and for all its local self-governments, and yet, as I say, I heard today that with the IMF the arrangement only concludes a country with special needs. We were a country with special needs, and I don't think we're a country with special needs anymore. In that sense, I don't think this bill solves the matter. The 2011 law was not fatal to macroeconomic stability, obviously it wasn't. But at this point, eight billion were asked by the IMF, who needed it once, after where we were and double security to save on certain things. When you've already shown that you have macroeconomic stability, they're asking you to do more. So I think this is just another thing that we were forced into because of the situation in which the country was in, and so it will be until 2018 when we have an arrangement with the IMF. I hope not after that, because we have proven that we are fiscally stable, macroeconomicly stable country and that we have a system that will, in fact, guarantee that we will remain such a country. That's how they should work in theory. So I think this is going like when we agree now whether we're in a good situation or not, I don't think this law is saying that we're not in a good situation, but that there's just another measure that needs to preserve the macroeconomic stability that has been achieved. As for parafiscal incomes, as I said, I would at least expect you to be invited to parafiscal incomes, or that it's bad that parafiscal intrusions were lifted at that time. Although I understand that it was a document of a permanent conference of cities and municipalities, so maybe it's not really just your opinion, because you as the president of the municipality I think you understand well that you don't need to bring into the municipality a single investor and take him down to fatigue, but you need to reduce the burdens and bring more investors. So I still think that, when the parafiscal revenues were abolished, it was a good thing and I am truly looking forward to the Law on Taxes and the Law on Refunds, which the Ministry of Finance is currently working on, because I think it will make Serbia an even more predictable business environment which, as a result, will result in more investors and more small and medium-sized enterprises. As far as new employment and political employment are concerned, I admit I am only two months from the Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we have had the most criticism of local self-government because we do not allow new employment and because the Government of the Republic of Serbia has a lot of, indeed, strict employment commission. The Ministry of State and Local Self-Government gives only an opinion on the commission, the commission decides, but I find it hard to imagine how there could be additional political employment, to go through that commission, and I believe it's okay to give you the numbers for allowed employment so far, but that was the greatest criticism of both this Ministry and the Ministry of Finance, which is not allowed to sufficiently new employment. I don't know what was transferred to the New Sad. I honestly didn't catch it, but I know it was transferred to Kragujevac and Smederjevska Palanca and Koserić, as the local self-governments most in charge and which, without the support of the Republic government, could not function, which is terrible, and we will agree that you, whom I consider to be, in fact, the professional and responsible president of the municipality. As far as public private partnerships are concerned, I still think that the Republic Government has done enough to have a legislative framework and I think there are private initiatives, I don't think local self-governments are going enough to see whether because of the lack of expertise to assess whether something should go from their own investments or from private partners' investments, but I don't think that this is definitely used enough and that there is a big space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1814	Thank you. The word is Alexander Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1815	Madam Minister, the Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I think that everyone in this House would agree with one thing, and that politics and governance of the state both in business and in everyday life is an extremely important matter of predictability and predictability is something that should be our ultimate goal when I think about how much decentralised the state is and how to regulate relations between different levels of government. We have, in some ways, a strange predictability in this country, and it has continued to repeat more than some 1996 when for the first time local self-governments as a punishment of seized property, which is that we talk a lot about decentralisation, that many of us have been engaged in one fight for Serbia's decentralisation and one better division of jurisdiction between different levels of government, but that the only constant is that essential decentralisation is not happening in Serbia and that when we take a step forward, and I will not say that this step in 2011 was the very best step that could be done and that it was not motivated by some other reasons, that in time we return to another direction and that the Republic ate less and the resources and competencies of local self-government. The vertical division of power is as important as the division of power which is horizontal and which is not disputed in our society. In the vertical division of power, we have problems that have existed for years, which is that we haven't found the best formula to bring the affairs of the state authorities at the level of the Republic and the level of local self-government closer to where they would be most efficient, to bring citizens in the right way and to establish a crystal clear line of responsibility, since by transferring a lot of competence to the level of the Republic is the responsibility. This law is a step backwards and pushes Serbia towards centralisation, and we already have too much centralisation in our society. In some ways, although it would be a reality in the current political environment and with some other laws, we will have the establishment of an old pattern of behaviour, which is that the best mayor is not the one who best manages local property, which best regulates local regulations, which is most cautious towards business, but the mayor who lobbys best in Belgrade. We have generations of such mayors in Serbia who have changed four or five uniforms. I can't personally resent them because they came from poor municipalities and their ability to lobby in Belgrade was crucial, which is why they needed to change their uniforms. That's why we as a parliamentary group have huge reserves for any further centralization, because we give wrong incentives, encourages people who should be involved in the development of local self-government in ways that work by their colleagues in the world, to deal with lobby activities, which aren't bad, but I think their key lies in good communication with the central, although the research we have this year shows that local self-governments don't perceive that the Republic understands them very well, and that if they measured on a scale of one of five, that would be one very thin three. So we have one side of centralization, the law is an additional incentive, not essentially, of course, I can't say that this is a law that essentially changes things, and, on the other hand, we're losing some things and we're showing that we're going in a direction that's not really the best. One more thing my predecessors pointed out, it's a matter of compensatory transfers. If we're already removing some of the municipality's revenues that they thought they'd say to the original incomes, then why do we have the compensatory transfers back? I believe in the commitment of our people who run the Republic, I believe in the commitment of ministers, I believe in the commitment of all the people who do this work, but it creates a terrible space for you to try to reward someone and someone to punish. And it's very difficult for humans to resist such a desire. Power is a strange thing, and centralization itself is a kind of concentration of power. So when you still have the opportunity to decide whether a municipality will be a good municipality, and if another municipality will be a municipality that will not achieve some of its goals, there is always the possibility that it will be brought to some extent by political criteria. As you are not from the world of party policy, I sincerely hope and expect that you will be as you have been, a top professional and look only at the criteria, regardless of whether it is the municipality run by the party that is today leading the most municipalities in Serbia, or whether it is some other municipalities. These are some of the dangers that exist. Also, when we talk about the effects of consolidation, we essentially don't have a consolidation at the level of the entire state, we just have a shift of funds from one level to another. Or, in a way, we have one game we've been playing during fiscal consolidation over the last two years, which is that the deficit that has been clearly shown is extremely large. It was a great effort to cut it by one or two percentage points, we'll never say it was easy to do at all. But on the other hand, you're actually sending that deficit to other places. So the Republic will be in better shape, but on the other hand, the municipalities will suffer a little bit. Or, as we had -- the Republic will cut the deficit, but it will be paid by pensioners. There will be a minor deficit in the Republic, but it will be paid by doctors, professors, judges. It's going to be a smaller deficit, but we're not going to issue guarantees to public enterprises that we're going to end up paying again, implicitly or explicitly. So it's one game, so to speak, of transferring money from one level to another. I understand that at this point, due to the arrangement with the IMF, it may have been opportunistic to do consolidation at the level of the Republic, but essentially, we at Serbia's level are not going to solve things this way. Solutions are somewhere else. Another reason that is a skeptic and we have is that our future house is the European Union and almost 85% of the MPs in this House think so. One of the EU's rock foundations is a high degree of decentralisation. All right, there are countries where decentralisation is at a lower level than in Serbia, but in most countries lower levels consume most of the total budget revenues than we do. So again, we're going in some direction that's not very good from the point of view of what we've declared to be a strategic goal. I say again, I sincerely hope this will be temporary, but learning from 20 years of experience in Serbia, where we have always had an opposition that was full of decentralisation while in opposition, and then when it becomes a position, suddenly forget it all. I'd like you to be a shape-shifter, but 20 years of experience says you have a very difficult task ahead of you. It also mentioned an extremely interesting project to collect property taxes in eastern Serbia and that local self-governments were fundamentally uninterested to collect some incomes that were their original incomes, even, and that it took a lot of, much effort to invest to make them fit and collect property taxes. The question that can be asked here is how will now be a greater motivation to collect something that is even harder to determine? If more assets can be identified, using appropriate records, databases, lease contracts are even harder to identify with us, and the motivation of people working in local communities is even smaller, so that's where the question arises whether in this case we're going to lose and that we're going to have a slight drop in fees because we're moving income from the municipality level to the level of the Republic? Although formally-legal, it can be viewed as capital revenue, but the question is do we also achieve what is essential to the consolidation of public finances? The municipalities will not stand passively, life is such that when people get a certain reduction in income, try to adapt, no one stands passively. There are two ways that municipalities can adapt, actually three. The first is to be extraordinary in good relationships and try to get some funds back from the plant. It may be realistic for 10%, 15% with the governments that have the best contacts and are very important. The rest have two choices – to cut costs or what most municipalities reach for and what usually leads to the emergence of new parafiscals, we have a constant game of cats and mice, is that the municipalities will try to make up for it, always do. Who's he gonna take it from? In a large number of cases, he'll reach out to the economy. I'd like it not to be the case, but still, experience teaches us that it could very easily happen that in fact local businessmen pay the cost of such a fiscal consolidation, and there you have to be extremely careful, so that we don't make a much higher cost because of one transfer of funds in the medium and long term. It's something that's a big problem. Also, the law carries another hidden waste of this society's resources, which is that people, whether in business or in public administration, need to deal with the jobs they need. This law leaves room for some municipalities to move into the status of the city, to take advantage of the benefits these solutions bring them. This is essentially an unnecessary process, but there is an incentive in terms of the difference that exists. Some municipalities are likely to respond and go through a process that may not be needed at a given time, but they will do everything in their power not to lose what is at their disposal. Further centralisation in Serbia and the constant decline of local self-government revenues in the total revenues of the consolidated Serbian state lead to us reducing objective space for one of the most important things and for local economic development, which is competition between municipalities. When municipalities have, let's say just not completely tight budget, when they can really save, then there's room for municipalities to compete with each other in having lower taxes, have cheaper procedures, that they can offer better conditions for people who want to invest in these municipalities or start their own business. If you're taking their means, in fact, you're taking their ability to compete with each other and that's also one of the negative sides that this law carries. If we add all of this together, it seems to us, as our parliamentary group that is extremely committed to decentralisation and one smart vertical division of power in Serbia, where jobs are done to be closest to citizens, and they are not needlessly transferred to the level of the Republic or, God forbid, there are also jobs that should not be transferred to the level of the municipality, because it would be extremely ineffective, therefore, we stand for one optimality, and we stand for predictability and one system. We sincerely hope that this will be an extremely short-term move and that we will go towards building a system of reputation for countries that have well solved the vertical division of power, with the possibility that we have as many original revenues at both levels of government as possible, that none of them depend on anyone or, if we already have certain transfers, that these transfers will last as long as possible and be as clear as possible. Finally, I have a question for you that's quite touching me. You said the IMF demanded that we do exactly this kind of transfer of funds. Did the IMF require explicitly to take from municipalities a certain amount of money and transfer it to the level of the Republic, or was the IMF's request that the Republic have one additional amount of money? In fact, would it be acceptable for the IMF to consolidate at a republican level, for example, by reducing subsidies, which could also lead to significant savings, the implementation of a substantial restructuring of large consumers' funds in this budget, such as RTB Bora, which spends 100m euros each year? So, was there any possibility of choosing a way to secure new revenues, or, of course, we don't have to do everything with new revenues, since we're usually a country that's known to spend a lot of money and tax a lot, was it possible to cut some spending and the IMF says that after that we are the champions of consolidation? Or could we have chosen another time? I wish you good luck in your work in that position, you'll need a lot of happiness, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1816	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1817	First, this law either changes nothing or encourages centralised. I mean, we either didn't do anything with this law, or we did something. I think the law is changing something. I don't think it encourages centralization. I don't see how in this law he encourages centralization. On the contrary, we've been talking all day today, but good. He proves there's decentralisation. If for nothing else, then because the comments of cities and municipalities were adopted on such a large scale. As far as the IMF is concerned, I understand the IMF has requested direct distribution from the locals to mitigate the effects of the 2011 law. As far as I'm concerned, the municipalities are going to behave better now because they're losing their share of the profit tax, I said there's room for that to happen. So I think we'll agree that there's a big space for additional serious fiscal discipline of local self-government. Whether or not this will happen depends on these local self-government and depends on us. So there was an obligation to control the budget of local self-government before, so it was not particularly well implemented. Now there's this rino system, so that control is finally being carried out. So, I think there's more space in the property tax. I think there's room in centralized public procurement. I think there's space in public private partnerships, and I think there's a space implicit in the fight against the gray economy, where I think especially in smaller local self-governments, the presidents of the municipalities can appeal to their hosts, to their entrepreneurs to issue fiscal accounts. But what's more important right now, because of the tax cuts, is that they register the facilities and that their employees no longer work in the black zone, but to get out of the gray zone and work in legal flows, which is why not only those workers will have health, social and pension insurance, but also tax, i.e. income from the income tax for local self-government to be higher. The previous government has passed the Inspective Control Act, which is very important, I think we'll agree on that. Since the application of that law, some 20,000 workers have come out of the gray zone, so I think there's space. I don't think that's the direct jurisdiction of local self-government, but I think the mayors and presidents of the municipalities can appeal to people they certainly know, respect the laws of this country, and therefore the budgets of local self-government are a little higher. How will local self-government react? I say again, from local self-government to local self-government, we'll try to communicate with all of them and follow how they react, try to help them put in more fiscal discipline together. But on the other hand, you know that unfortunately there have been situations where nothing has ever changed, legal frameworks have not changed, and taxes and fees have been increased. There were examples of local self-government that charged both EPS and Telekom the company on each post. There were local self-governments that were eight and nine times retroactively increasing the environmental tax. It wasn't clear to me at the time, but I hope it doesn't happen now. In addition to what I hope, we'll try to work with them and communicate, so that it doesn't happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1818	Thank you. The word is Bosko Obradović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1819	Dear Chairman, first of all, I would like to express my hope that you will respect one of mine, hopefully a proper application, which is that at this point we interrupt the session and continue tomorrow, for the simple reason that there has been no direct transmission on RTS for an hour. In order not to have unnecessary insinuations on whether the session was right at the time when the main opposition parliamentary groups were supposed to get the word interrupted to be directly transferred on RTS, I think it would be most practical for us to continue tomorrow as authorised representatives, since otherwise we remain very few, if you agree. That's my suggestion.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1820	I'll give it to the director of television, just keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1821	Thank you. That's what I expected of you, of course. So this is one of, I would say, the latest, unprecedented RTS scandals, which, at the moment the word should be given five of the largest opposition parliamentary groups in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, abolished a direct transmission. Last time it made sense, because it was the Olympics in Rio, so we paid the costs of that transfer, and it could still go as an explanation, but at this point there's a concert of the Russian Kozaks, which I welcome, and I think is one big artistic thing, but it's certainly no excuse to interrupt the direct transmission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, we will seek the shift responsible for this, because Serbian citizens are paying RTS, and today one of the most important things for the lives of Serbian citizens is the Law on the financing of local self-government. The interest of Serbian citizens is to have a direct transmission and hear what their representatives have to say in political life, which they voted for in the elections, especially because they finance the public media service. But we're going to leave room for an analysis which is the role of the authorities in this impediment of the opposition's representatives to be heard in direct television transmission. What I'm trying to say, Madam Minister, with all your, of course, nice team, is that you're not actually authorized to talk about this agenda point. Namely, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of local self-government, which is on the agenda, aims exclusively at meeting the IMF's requirements, rather than at solving the core accumulated problems of financing local self-government. So, Mrs Gojkovic, it would be right if you asked an IMF representative to defend this law against the People's MPs of the Republic of Serbia, for the simple reason that the IMF ordered these things. In fact, the IMF is the one who tells the government what to do. The government, as the current Prime Minister said, cannot spend a single dollar in the budget without asking the IMF. It's not a dispute, it's just that you, Mrs. Brnabic, don't have any role here. You are a channel that implements IMF ideas in the legal life of the Republic of Serbia. So, I think, it would be much more correct if we had an IMF representative here, if then we as the MPs could ask him why this law is being passed in Serbia, that he would answer why the republican budget is robbing local budgets and why, that's a key question that isn't asked here today, when the budget is in surplus, when the budget is so stable, when we start with such a brilliant development, when we're so economically well standing, why do you take local self-government money from the local budget? The Republic budget is stable, no problem, fiscal consolidation has succeeded, everything is maximumly fine, so what are you robbing local budgets? So that's what you do, of course, by the IMF's order. Now let's see who the IMF is. First of all, the IMF is a white-world economic killer, an inspirer and an accomplice to Serbia's economic downturn. Serbia's path to an economic Sunflower, launched by Mladjan Dinkic after October 5th, has been consistently conducted by Aleksandar Vukic since coming to power. He does so by listening to IMF orders, as an interest in foreign capital in Serbia, puttings above the interests of Serbian citizens and businesses. The IMF has always inspired and supported a devastating economic policy such as stimulating imports, drilling domestic production, lectures on the domestic banking sector and retailing to foreigners, privatization and sale of our strategic natural and economic resources, and I expect you to go in the direction and sales of Telecom, EPS, agricultural land, of course, by order of the IMF. Citizens in the election, gentlemen in power, did not vote for the IMF. The IMF has no authority in this country, and the IMF must not have authority in this country, and ask your friend Victor Orban, who kicked the IMF out of Hungary, if you are already some friends.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1822	Ambassador, can we please hear a little bit about the law? If a minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia could participate in the debate, and I don't have an IMF phone, I can't call them.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1823	Sure, thanks. If it is forbidden to talk about the IMF in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we know that too, nothing is disputed. I just want to point out, if the minister herself has said here ten times that this is according to the IMF's terms, according to the IMF's orders, in the IMF's arrangement, it's very important that we know who this IMF is imposing one of these laws on us.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1824	The MPs know.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1825	So, to finish with that part of the story and move on to the rest, the IMF is a classic debt pusher that makes the state work to pay back the IMF's debts. The IMF doesn't care about our banking, the IMF doesn't care about our production, the IMF doesn't care about our agriculture, the IMF doesn't care about anything that's our interest, but that we return to them the debts that some former government has owed, and which you, gentlemen of the advances, have increased this country's debt by six billion dollars during these five years of your authority. So, the IMF and how interested it is that you pay back the debts you owe this country. This is one of the ways the IMF makes you fill the republican register to pay them back. So that's the whole point of this law, there's nothing else here. Now I'm going to prove it to you, Madam Minister, why there's nothing else here. Your basics, to put it this way, the excuse for you to pass this law is that there are certain local self-governments that do not work well, that purposelessly spend their resources, which have too many employees, who cannot trace what happens to the money that remains at the level of local self-government and that have not turned them into some new value, into new production, into new infrastructure capital investments, into anything new. Yeah, that's right. But why are you taking money and local self-government doing good? If you really wanted to set things straight, you would punish those who do bad and take money and tell them – from now on you can take money from the budget only when you give a quality project that we will control. Why do you punish local self-governments doing good? Why are you taking their money? So it has nothing to do with that. This has to do with the IMF and his warrant that you have to fill the republican register in order to repay debts to the IMF. There is no solution here to any of the problems of funding local self-government. These are cosmetic changes and meeting IMF requirements. What I particularly want to point out here, and I think that's actually the point of what is excluded from direct television transmission. Serbia, therefore, under one, is not governed by the government of the Republic of Serbia, but by the IMF. The Serbian government is doing everything according to the orders of a foreign monetary fund. Under two, Serbia's cities and municipalities should be pleased that many were not robbed, as planned by the original draft law on the financing of local self-government, were already robbed less than that. There is, for example, an excellent statement by incumbent Novi Sad Mayor Milos Vučević, who says: "We in Novi Sad are satisfied. Under this law, the Republic will only take 250 million dinars. “ Watch out, only 250 million dinars of Novi Sad will have less in the budget under this law. My Cachak 50 million dinars less, the entire agricultural budget that Cachak singles out on an annual basis, we won't be able to single out after this bill of yours, Madam Minister. Under three, Aleksandar Vukic boasts the surplus and stability of the republican budget, but still the republican budget complements by robbing the local budget. For what? In 2013, Dinkic took 20 billion tax changes, and the best Dinkic economic student, guess who, Aleksandar Vukic, takes another five billion local self-governments in Serbia. So Dinkic and Vukic together robbed 25 billion of our local couples. Under four, the Serbian government doesn't give any legal guarantees that the looted funds, this is crucial, Madam Minister, pay attention, please, you can wave your hands, say – these are nebuloses, but this is of interest to the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1826	MP, she didn't say they were nebuloses, she just doesn't understand because you're not talking about the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1827	No, she was shaking her hand. That's right, here, great. Here, to hear the answer to the next question – what are your guarantees that you will return the looted funds from local self-government to those local self-governments in the same amount that you robbed them for? Where does that guarantee say in this law? She's nowhere to be found. So, you're gonna take the money and then you're gonna see if you can get some transfer back and who you're gonna return it to, and then you're gonna get Radomir Nikolic back to Kragujevac, if he needs to secure the stability of his budget. And will you pay back the 50 million you took from Chačka? Of course you won't. You'll give some other municipalities by some of your party logic. Not to mention that you have additionally burdened the municipalities you take more than the cities, which I cannot understand in any way. Why are the cities privileged to you, and why are the municipalities, which are normally in various problems, in some way additionally burdened here? Fifth, the good news is, and that may be the only good thing, that there are advances who have opposed that original proposal that really was a robbery of robberies. It's probably why he's gone, because simply certain municipalities and cities in Serbia would have to close their functioning. Six, spending funds in local self-government criticises a government that does not have a final budget account, very interesting. Intentional spending on local level has been criticised by the president of the SNS, forgetting that most of Serbia's cities and municipalities are headed by SNS personnel. Specially characteristic cases of corruption and accidental spending of budget funds that are being poured into private pockets, e.g. Municipality of Prepolje and Nova Varosh. Let me give you two examples. Dragoljub Zindovic, president of the municipality of Prijepolje, who installs new furniture in his office before the end of the tender for the purchase of furniture or, for example, paves the way for the meat community of Kolovra in Prijepolje, where the layer of made asphalt is measured microscopicly. Or, the subject, mentioned Nova Varosh by the minister. Dimitrije Paunovic, former president of Nova Varoš municipality and the current head of Zlatibor County, pictures and opportunities of corruption in the SNS ranks and why the government is kidnapping money from the local budget, under the pretext that non-intentional spending is being spent. That's exactly the kind of guy who's been spending his money unintentionally. It's more logical then to arrest him, prosecute him, not take money from the budget of local self-government. The best evidence in the end is that it is not a matter of curbing local incompetences and kabadias is that the same relationship has been established for successful and failed local self-governments, that both those who have purposelessly spent money and those who have purposely spent money and that it is clear that this is nothing more than an IMF order and robbery. In that sense, you look like a government, all together, of course, to the modern Superhik, the one who kidnaps the poor to give to the rich. What does that mean specifically? Kidnapped pensioners, educators, health workers, soldiers, police officers, local self-government, but you must never hit tycoons who do not pay taxes in this country, you must not hit foreign banks that create extraprofits on the back of this poor people, you must not hit foreign companies that do not pay taxes on profits achieved in Serbia because they fakely expropriate money abroad to their mothers companies. You don't touch these things, you don't consolidate the finances, you leave the robbery, the money and extraprofit abroad. But you want to hit on local self-government, especially those who are successful and who don't deserve your relationship like this. That is why it is more than clear why the Dveri parliamentary group will vote against this law of yours, which is nothing more than the implementation of an IMF order, which you are actually an agent of interest in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1828	The word is Gjorge Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1829	I would also like to express my clearness, determination and determination by the government of the Republic of Serbia to continue the reform course, and in this you will have the full and absolute support of the SPS parliamentary club. Serbia's reform course for us is an alternative. Reforms that Serbia would primarily be a healthy country in the economic sense. Serbia today is on track to finally resolve the state of public finances and that precisely thanks to heavy and responsible reforms, difficult and responsible measures with optimism, it looks at the period ahead. What the government of the Republic of Serbia is opening today is a successful reform in the area of economy. It is something for which Serbia is both recognizable and respected and respected. For us as a Parliament club, economic recovery and progress is a national interest, and I say that for one simple reason because we believe absolutely no one has the right to take irresponsible action and irresponsible behavior to undermine the realization of this extremely important goal. The realisation of this important objective depends on the realization of a number of other key objectives. Serbia is as powerful as it is economically advanced and economically stronger and economically stronger. The goal is clear, sustainable economic development, the goal is to improve in each sector, today we are talking about local self-government, but a improvement that will be based on sound foundations. We have a positive trend, the intention is recognizable, the government of the Republic of Serbia's momentum to make a huge effort to keep Serbia on track. We have clear and precise defined goals and a very precise long-term plan. The law we are talking about today, the draft law amending the Law on the financing of local self-government, is actually a continuation of reforms, a step further in reforms. The reform law in the system of financing local self-government, and the key change, the fundamental change, therefore, is the correction of the percentage redistribution of funds on earnings, as you said in the introduction of the fiscal consolidation measure, which has clear objectives to preserve and maintain macroeconomic stability and to affect the reduction of the budget deficit. The SPS Parliament Club, of course, fully supports and for us these are fully justified objectives which are intended to be achieved through the adoption of this legislative proposal, but since this is a law which had two versions. The first version that was a serious burden for local self-government, for municipalities and cities, and the second version that we are talking about today, and that a serious and quality debate on the relation of municipalities, the city, the permanent conference of cities and municipalities and representatives of the resolution ministry has been held. For us, it's very important and important to a few things. First, the adoption of this legislative proposal will in no way compromise any of the essential and most important essential functions of local self-government. The other thing, what you were talking about during the opening presentation, is that most of it, not all of it, but you said most of the municipalities and cities accepted this proposal. So, I would say by rational and responsible action, there has been one of the most sustainable at this point in time of this solution of the most optimal, most realistic solution that is a compromise. At one stop requires the IMF, on the other side of what are the real needs of municipalities and cities. This compromise and this solution actually shows how important dialogue is when we talk about local self-government with representatives of municipalities and cities, but a dialogue that will always go in the direction not to financially weaken municipalities and cities and that local budgets lose, but a dialogue that will go in the direction that everyone will eventually get more and find those alternative sources of income. Reforms do not involve popular measures, the crisis never comes out with popular measures, but with unpopular and necessary measures. If employees in the state administration have borne the burden of reforming the economic crisis, if in a dignified manner the burden of reform has been borne by the oldest category of pensioners, then it is entirely justified and adequate for certain savings to be made at the level of local self-government in municipalities and cities and for this percentage lower amount of income to be directed towards the republican budget. On the other hand, taustwards, as you said, will somehow be compensated through capital infrastructure projects that can be supported from the republican budget. For us as a parliamentary club, it is also of utmost importance and it is important to adopt this legislative proposal, i.e. the impact of this legislative proposal on capital investments. So that municipalities and cities that have started infrastructure projects, means, with the support of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, with the support of the republican budget, to complete these capital infrastructure projects. If that is the position, and we believe it is, we support this position and the definition of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and encourages it, the fact that in 2015 capital investment seems to me to be 2.9% of GDP. Why do we think this is important? In a period of crisis, saving the sea should be a priority. Save first of all at the state level because it's always being saved where there is, it can't be saved where there isn't. It can't be on the most socially endangered categories of the population, but saving alone isn't enough. It is necessary to find a way for Serbia to develop over the next period of time and how to address what are key issues today in Serbia through development, and one of these is exactly the issue of unemployment. Investment in capital infrastructure projects is not a cost, it is an investment in the future and one data and the fact that capital expenditures have about three times a positive effect on economic activity compared to current expenditures. On the other hand, this is a real chance to solve what is a key issue today in Serbia through the realisation of capital infrastructure projects, which is the issue of unemployment. Of course, the effects of previous legal proposals concerning local self - government were discussed and lessons from what was not good should be learned. First of all, I don't think we should have ad hoc redistribution of funds when it comes to municipalities and cities, so we have municipalities that will be in subordinate and municipalities and cities that will be in a privileged position. And it must not happen that the funds are not spent on capital infrastructure projects but are going into consumption. It is true that in this way we also meet the IMF requirements and you spoke about it in the opening statement, but on the other hand we believe that some things when it comes to local self-government we need to do in Serbia for ourselves, because of local self-government, not just because it is a commitment to the IMF. A well-managed local self-government is also the meaning of organised Serbia. An orderly state should rest on well-managed local self-government. So, local self-government, I think that's what we were talking about today during today's debate, and we need to be more responsible, more serious, to prevent non-intentional spending of funds and to eliminate all that are the weaknesses of the existing system. The ultimate goal should be to have in a financial sense both more efficient and more stable and more transparent and predictable local self-government and I repeat that we reduce those regional differences that exist among municipalities, somewhere these differences are one to ten. Of course, it's good, here we agree with you, to encourage competition between local self-governments that deal well with resources and those who do not. Simply encourage local self-government to be more responsible in implementing measures heading towards incentives for economic development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1830	Thank you. The word is Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1831	Gentlemen of the People, where is he who asks who the IMF is? What does it explain to us? Or the one who was talking about Koseric, I'd love to see them because I've been here listening to MPs whose first term is so they don't know and they think they can say whatever they want and they can't be answered. I've listened to other more experienced colleagues who know, but they think we don't know. We are talking about amendments to the Law on the financing of local self-government and the IMF. First of all, the IMF can't tell us anything, nor are we obliged to obey their terms. It gives an assessment of the fiscal consolidation measures that we are carrying out, and it gives this assessment precisely so that you would not attack us to falsify the results of the government of the Republic of Serbia, you from the former regime that has ruined the state, which has led it to a situation that we now have to vote these laws and that we do not have these good results, without these good results and good estimates, Serbia would not have 3% of GDP growth, but would have recorded a minus, as when you were in power. Inflation would not be 1%, but 12 and 15 while you were in power, it was. The euro would not jump 0.75% a year, but 10 and 12 dinars a year. Then you're talking about how someone took something away from the pensioners that you gave one to two percent higher pensions, but that's why you took 25% from them through inflation and the jump of the euro. That doesn't apply. But one other question to ask my colleagues, not just the minister, and the fiscal consolidation measures and pension cuts were two years ago. The pensioners have borne most of the burden, and we thank them for that. But what are you crying about at their grave? There were elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1832	Ambassador, can we go back to the bill?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1833	We're going back to the topic because it was both local and republican. I'll explain, President, why I say so, and in those elections you've been beaten to your feet, and now, that's why I say that elections are a very interesting story in all of this, because many have been dragging Mladjan Dinkic here. A lot of what I can blame him for, but this last amendment and the addition of the law, of 80%, to go to local self-government from income tax, was not invented by Dinkic, the then prime minister and finance minister Mr Cvetkovic invented. Why do you pretend you don't know it and pretend you don't know it was an increase of 40 billion dinars according to local self-government, to finance the upcoming local, republican and parliamentary elections you've lost again? If you were honest, you'd read the whole law, so you'd know or at least introduce it to the citizens of Serbia if they were a member of 6. The law on the financing of local self-government provides for the original revenues of local self-government. Are these original incomes the subject of amendments and additions to this law? I don't think so. At least I'm so written that article 6 doesn't change. But someone's not writing, so he's talking about it. This is covered by Article 35. Have someone read from you, when you start telling lies, I'll use mild words to write the title above article 35 – incomes from taxes. This means that the Republic of Serbia has waived its taxes in favour of local self-government. She's the one who collects those taxes, or else they're called still-trusted incomes. There's no local self-government on their collection. There's one other thing you can't mention, which is Article 37, so here you've done some kind of depression, and the minister, and the prime minister, and they're going to determine which local self-government will get more, less, etc. Article 37(1) says – the annual amount of the total non-intentional transfer, which represents the accounting category for the allocation of funds to units of local self-government, is 1.7% of the GDP achieved according to the latest published data by the Republic Office for Statistics Affairs. So in 2017, the amount of the transfer will be higher by about two billion and will go right for those municipalities that have the least revenue for budgets and which are the poorest and most underdeveloped. Then who are you defending? Defend one failed policy that led Serbia to one suicide, an entire country. I even once said that the then prime minister of the government of the Republic of Serbia Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic was an irresistible reminder of John Smith, Captain Titanic, and you know how the Titanic approached. This is where you purposed your destiny to Serbia, nothing else! Now, you, who have passed the law that 40 billion get local self-government, have left these same local self-government in debt because these municipalities, or local self-government, have been robbed, defend interests. Well, whose interests are you defending? You're no longer in power there. What are you worried about? What do you care that Millian of Koseric will pay back 250 billion dinars for the sports hall made by someone from the former regime? These are two and a half budgets of Koseric municipality. And one millia beats you. Well, no wonder. He'll beat you again and he'll kick your ass in a year. Not to mention the Vrbas, Vrnjak Banja, the situation you've left public enterprises in. No problem, I'm ready for every discussion. Just so you know, I'm willing to answer and attack everything that you're saying is false. Get ready for that. This one policy, which is being implemented here so as not to recognise the results, that those who have the result are being attacked by being attributed to the failures of those who ruled Serbia by 2012, will not be left without an answer from these parliamentary benches. Nemanja Sarovic, from the scene: Are you attacking the SPS? ) I ask the chairman to provide me with the conditions to work, as colleagues earn, but fine.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1834	They're getting from all the benches. You're the last speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1835	We can talk about everything, but make sure every single one of your lies is answered, every one of your unfounded attacks will be answered by an attack with arguments. We will not allow this Assembly simply to be caught up with untrue, unfulfilled and unfulfilled political ambitions and a desire for power and privileges that the parties of the former regime have lost, or all of their mutations of the Democratic Party from 2012 until today.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1836	The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1837	I answered the line, the Democratic Party was mentioned. I don't know how this sudden need for this kind of effusion of emotion, very strange. I object to you for not warning the previous speaker that all the time, as he spoke, for more than ten minutes, he actually spoke a line to all those who spoke about the subject of the law. I don't understand why you're attacking the DS if we're talking about the subject. If we're talking about the main objections being that, you're attacking the DS that sincerely advocates the decentralisation process, to strengthen local self-government, because I know what the budgets of local self-government were in 2000, how much the budgets were inherited, and that they grew all the time with desire and with that awareness that DS has that centralization, fiscal centralisation and money centralization are equal to political centralisation and the path to absoluteism. One who manages money in absolute terms certainly reduces the power of decision at local level, and thus the participation of citizens in making those decisions. We mostly talked about those principles. I don't know why we have this kind of criticism, because we have clear data that many colleagues have talked about, that income levels and local self-government budgets grow from 2000 to 2012, that from 2012 to 2015 they clearly fall from 18.8% to 12% or almost 11%. So that's the point. That's true, and we're just repeating the same thing that diminished the influence of local self-government, the mayor who later went through the same Permanent Conference...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1838	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1839	... With whom you have consulted Madam Minister, they have no power, no political power to say anything about such a solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-04-0.u1840	Thank you. You've replicated Ambassador Veroljub Arsic. (Veroljub Arsic, from town: Replica. There are no elements for replication. The MP only responded to what you said "mutation DS" since 2000. Zoran Krasic throws. I see we're in the mood to throw each other away. We've all been authorized, except for those who are absent, they'll have to wait for a list of speakers. We're done for today. We start tomorrow at 10.00. The first speaker is Milija Miletic, the second one is Zoran Zivkovic. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 90 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your cards into the Members of the Electronic System. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 122 MPs are present in the hall and that we have conditions for further work. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by Members Konstantin Arsenovic and Branko Ruzic. We are continuing the initial search on the first item of the agenda of the draft Act amending the Law on the financing of local self-government. We're moving on to the speaker list. First speaker Milija Miletic, let MP Zoran Zivkovic be prepared.
