ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11103	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 115 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 94 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11104	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I urge the president of the National Assembly to put immediately on a session of the colleges to decide on the formation of a National Assembly delegation to visit the arrested Serbs in Podgorica who were imprisoned in Spuž prison on suspicion that they were involved in an attempt to crack in Montenegro or a terrorist attack on the holders of the highest functions, including Djukanovic. I got a letter, an official letter from Branka Milic, an old lady here somewhere my age, I'm not old, well, then neither is she, but it's not for terrorist action, believe me. I received her letter, officially, sent after the approval of the Supreme Court judge in Podgorica Miroslav Bashovic, officially passed through the Ministry of Justice of the Institute for the Violation of Criminal Penitentiary Penitentiary Penitentiary Penitentiary, whose head is Darko Vukcevic. Branka Milic, on behalf of the Serb prisoners, is demanding that the National Assembly form an independent commission that will visit all citizens of the Republic of Serbia in Spuž prison and determine under what conditions they maintain detention as the most difficult measure of procedural coercion and will launch an independent investigation into the alleged attempt of a state coup in Montenegro. An investigation into the non-existent work, led by special state prosecutor Milivo Katnic, was ordered as the coup itself and does not promise minimum guarantees of the procedural right to material truth. The arrested Serbs are being harassed in prison, threatened by police officers who listen to them, exposed to various pressures to extort recognition, but so far there are only statements of two protected witnesses, one of whom formalised his status, and the other still has not, which are agents of the provocators, who have been active in various patriotic organisations to come in as many as possible in Montenegro to support the rally of Montenegrin Serbs on the day of the election, and no one has mentioned any armed action to them. I suggest that the National Assembly first organises a delegation, which will visit all Serb found, listen to each of them and report to the National Assembly, and the National Assembly after deciding whether to take further measures, whether to address the government, the competent ministries or to launch a specific action in the form of a polling committee or commission. I've been made aware here that they expect me to deliver this to all MPs. I delivered it to you this way, since I have no other communication with any MP groups. To the government of the Republic of Serbia, this is how I delivered it, and I ask that the Assembly inform the Ministry of the right, above all. The OSCE Human Rights Office, based in Belgrade, that's what I'm waiting for Davenport to come to me, it's not there at all, so I can hand it over to him. And to all the embassies in Belgrade, as you know, I am in contact with some embassies of countries that have not recognised Kosovo and Metohija, and with the embassies of states that have recognised Kosovo and Metohija we Serbian radicals have no official contacts. This should be carried out urgently, in my opinion before New Year's Eve, in order to ensure primarily civilized treatment in Montenegro's prison for Serbian citizens. Serbian citizens arrested in Montenegro must have the status of political detainees, and they treat them as criminals.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11105	You're bringing the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11106	Here, I've brought the end. So, an urgent college to meet and form a delegation, a multilateral delegation that will go to visit our citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11107	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11108	Thank you. I'd like to ask you a few questions. One of these issues is the Ministry of Education, and about the Law on Fundamentals of Education and Technology, which is necessary and important, that a large number of people who do not have a job and have a number of hours to take care of. On the other hand, I would also ask our minister, with an emphasis on problems that have small municipalities, small communities such as the Svrlig municipality, where we have two schools, where we have more workers, teachers and teachers in these schools from Nis, than from our neighborhood, from Svrlig. This applies to other municipalities that are as small as my municipality, and have young people, people who have graduated from colleges, who have the same qualifications and can work, but because of people who are sent from bigger places, from bigger centers, they are sent to these small municipalities. These young people of ours are also going beyond the borders of our municipality, going beyond the borders of our country of Serbia. I would ask the Minister, if there is any possibility, that, in some way, within the framework of their programme, these small municipalities such as Svrljig municipality, Gajin Han, Bela Palanka and other municipalities should be exempted from such a way as to send educational workers as technological surpluses, because the problem is also the budget of municipalities, because they should also pay travel expenses, which is a major item for the budgets of these small municipalities. That's one question. The second question to the Ministry of Agriculture, the competent Minister of Agriculture, is whether in the following year it will be possible to amend the rules, to grant subsidies to cattlemen with one parent throat. Now, according to the rule, two parent throats, because I think it's very important, and we can also talk about the municipalities that are undeveloped, demographically threatened, that have a shortage of people, a great territory, that in these municipalities, that the rule is changed, that cattlemen who have the right to use the help of 25,000 dinars. This is very important precisely because we are witnessing that one throat, one cow gives the future, in some ways helps that agricultural producer survive the difficult situation, and we have had some statements from some of our people working in the ministries that these throats are pets. That wasn't appropriate. So, our minister's question -- will that obligation be reduced to two, to be one throat? At the very least, if it can't, I would ask the competent minister not to happen to get into a situation to increase that limit, not to be two, now to be three, to increase the limit, so that an even greater number of people from small municipalities, who are small producers, small landowners can use the funds given by the government, or the competent agriculture ministry. I think it's very important for our cattlemen, for our agricultural producers. I would also stand for myself as a man, and I am sure that the competent ministry will hear about undeveloped areas, marginal areas, for mountainous and mountainous areas, that in this way the same way will help cattlemen and all who need it. Now, once again, as a man who comes from a small municipality, but the host municipalities, as a Serb host, to all the MPs, I would congratulate all the citizens of Serbia on St. Nicholas and wish everyone that we had a lot of health and happiness and that the year and this coming year be born and noble, both in the field and at home.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11109	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11110	Thank you, Chairman. First question I ask the Ministry of Finance. Entrepreneurs who are paying their taxes have come to a tax settlement at the addresses of companies that have been leading for the past two years, so, same as us or the deforestation paors. I ask: Why did they wait two years for the IRS to send them solutions? Why haven't the solutions been sent last year and why can't they pay their debt for the war tax quarterly? The cobwebs owe them a lot, and they didn't even know it. As a result, many people have found themselves between the urgent payment of claims and putting a lock on the store. For example, tailoring shops pay their taxes on a flat-rate basis, with up to 200,000 dinars in two years for taxes they have to pay at once. They worked for the state for two years, not for themselves. Everyone knew that the tax differences would be, but not as they got 200,000, I said. I'm asking -- how did this big tax difference come up with the cobwebs? The so-called country cobwebs did not issue tax solutions from 2014 to several months ago. Why? Instead, they were advised to pay the state as much monthly as before. So, the cobwebs were counting their taxes on themselves, and that's why this big difference is now being made. When new solutions finally started to arrive, it turned out that for the past more than a year and a half, it took very much money to pay. For small cobwebs, it's a big problem, and that difference will simply lead them, not to close the store, but to either work on black or really pop out. I ask another question – did the state predict mechanisms that would make it easier for the cobwebs to pay the debt? So, does the state plan to allow them to pay their debts quarterly or to some wars? Correspondents say the Regulation on the coming conditions and criteria and elements for the flat-rate taxation of income taxpayers brings them a lot of unpleasantness. This is insecure because they cannot calculate how much their income should cost, or how much they should pay taxes. At the end of the solution, it says they have the right to appeal, but the appeal does not delay execution. Same as the drain. The second question I ask the Serbian government and the minister without portfolios in charge of demographics and population policy, Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. One in a series of burning problems for mothers on maternity leave is that they are waiting for their earned compensation for a few months. I ask – will this be settled in 2017. Also, I ask – will VAT waivers be allowed, VAT refund on baby equipment from January 1st? In the difficult financial circumstances in which most parents live, besides the usual one-time assistance of the Republic of Serbia and local self-government, it is also very important to support the state in the form of a return of 40,000 in the first and 30,000 in the second year of the child. Also, one in a series of burning problems for mothers on maternity leave is that they are waiting for their earned compensation after several months, because the employer does not arrive, cannot or does not want to bear several dozen papers each month to be refunded costs and funds paid retroactively. I ask – how will this be resolved in 2017, will the birth parents, women on maternity leave continue to wait for their earnings for months? The Social Democrats League of Vojvodina has proposed, through an initiative – full pay for pregnant women in local self-governments, to pay once for pregnant women and maternity care, and that somewhere this practice is included in regular social givings that have been taken over by local authorities. Some local self-governments introduced this, but eventually abolished it, so I ask – will local self-government have some help for families, mothers with three children and in 2017?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11111	Thank you. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11112	I have three questions. The first question is for the Justice Ministry and the Anti-Corruption Agency. I am interested in their opinion whether it is against the law and whether it is in any way in accordance with the regulations that a business bank concludes a contract with compensation for obtaining a legal opinion from a high-ranking state official, while it performs a high state function. To be specific, it is the Pireus Bank, which ordered a legal opinion from a group of professors of the Faculty of Law in Belgrade on 25 February 2013, with regard to variable interest rates and whether they represent zero contract provisions, within the meaning of the Law on Liabilities. One of the three professors who worked such a legal opinion is Professor Oliver Antic, and at that time the main adviser to the president of the Republic and member of the SNS presidency who is the ruling party at that time. Is it normal, is it against the law and whether there are elements of the corruption crime that the business bank hires a group of professors, but that one high-ranking state official, chief adviser to the president of the Republic of Serbia, means not only for legal matters, but for a person who regularly appears in public information and to do one legal opinion for the needs of that bank? Imagine how many economic operators would like the minister of justice to do to them some legal opinion or Prime Minister, since he's a lawyer, too, to do some legal opinion on any question, which doesn't have to come from the scope of his actions, especially because it's a legal opinion, I have him here, the Piraeus Bank used him in court in proceedings. In 2013, a large number of citizens filed lawsuits against banks in Serbia with a request to declare the futility of contract provisions that are very unfavourable for bank service users. Now that you have a situation for a judge to get one legal opinion, and in that legal opinion the late Professor Hiber, Professor Dr Milan Zivkovic and the signed professor, Dr Oliver Antic, who is chief adviser to the President of the Republic, is located as one of the givers of the opinion. I would remind you that the problem in charge of the Swiss francs, not only of Serbia's problem, but of the problem in all of Central and Eastern Europe, so at the level of the state in Hungary they regulated the problem, and recently, the courts in Poland made a very important decision by which they declared the zero provisions of the debt contract, the variable interest rate in the Swiss francs, and they declared those contracts a unscathed loan in the evils. So it's not a Swiss franc credit job anymore, it's a cash-free loan in the domestic currency. Is one of the reasons why we are being obstructed and in the judiciary, among other things, is the existence of one of these legal opinions, as we have proven that there are also contracts between judges and courts on the one hand, and business banks, on the other hand, on which they have the status of VIP clients. There is no Swiss franc anywhere, and we have yet another proof of that, here is the report that KPMG's audit firm worked for the needs of Piraeus Bank, where it is also found that the bank's operations, which approved loans in the Swiss francs, did not have deposits in Swiss francs and were not in debt on a minus market in that currency. A second question, also for the ministry of justice, but also for the finance minister and prime minister. You're boasting that you've taken care of the financials. Then how are your courts on lockdown? Court blockade status, on 11 December 2016, was 534 million 583 thousand 903 dinars, meaning a large number of courts. The basic courts owe 359 million dinars, the Higher 129 million, the Infringement 24 million, the General Public Prosecutor's Office 10.5 million, the Commercial Courts 440 million, the More Public Prosecutor's Office 340 million and the Appealal almost 150 million dinars. In doing so, they are exempt and can pay both wages and contributions, and citizens cannot collect their claims, which is against the constitution, because not all forms of property are protected. Here's a list of all these courts and all those duties. The third question, a question for the Prime Minister. You were on a visit yesterday to "Electro Networks of Serbia", you said it was one of the most successful state-owned enterprises, and you also announced that you would review the work of all directors of public enterprises and those who are not doing well. Now, I ask you, what is the reason that the director of the "Electro Networks of Serbia" will no longer remain in office, the mandate expires, but, as some information says, will not run again. We know that this is not about the lack of a university degree, because until now he has been acting as director Nikola Petrovic, without a diploma, and if there is any indication that he will move to the United States, since his best man, Nenad Kovac, called Nasha Roming, has already transferred the company to America, brought several hundred million dollars...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11113	You're bringing the end, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11114	What is the reason for Nikola Petrovic's departure?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11115	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Ivan Bauer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11116	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I would like to request a notice, or explanation from the Commissioner for the Protection of Information against Public Matter, regarding complaints I receive from certain citizens. What's this about? Many citizens complain that they are getting, so-called, what is professionally called unwanted, or unrequested communication, phone calls, or phone messages that are commercial content. This mainly refers to certain insurance companies, before it was a much more frequent case, and today it's less with banks, but also with certain other business entities that send us SMS messages that we didn't ask for, or I'm not sure they have the right to send us. So this is about a few possibilities. One option is that these business entities use documents, from which they take our numbers, which we can say conditionally that they are public, but that does not mean that they can be used for these purposes, or that they can be used to send commercial messages. Another possibility is that our phone numbers get from a third person, which also doesn't mean that this number of phones can be used for unrequested communication, which is a commercial character. And the third option, which is most dangerous, is that someone is making databases of phone numbers like this and then selling them to someone, which I believe is the most serious piece in this case. So, all three options, as far as I'm concerned, are controversial, and in that sense I'd like to get a concrete answer from the Commissioner for the Protection of Information against Public Matter, because I think he's the right person to deal with this, because this is exactly about, I think, breaking the right to the privacy of citizens. Here in terms of legal implications, I'd say there are three possibilities. One is that the Law allows such a thing, that is, that this communication is legally allowed in our country, which I am not sure about, and in which case I would expect the Commissioner for the Protection of Information from Public Meaning, to launch an initiative to make appropriate legal changes, or to agree with the best practices in the world that such communication does not allow. Another possibility, is that there's a so-called. The legal vacuum, that is, that this is not regulated properly by law and that certain economic operators, are most often used by insurance companies, and that they are unsolicited to communicate with us, or to invite us to our phone numbers or to send us messages that we have not previously asked for. The third option, is that it was absolutely not regulated by our law, in which case I would ask the Commissioner for the Protection of Information against Public Matter to launch an initiative to arrange something like this. Of course, there's another option, which is that he gets in touch with fixed and mobile phone operators and asks them to ask them, or to initiate them to do, one code of conduct of fixed and mobile phone operators who can, even if there is no legal regulation, these things to regulate in such a way as to prevent such communication themselves. In that sense, I'd like to introduce you to the best practices in the world. In the U.S., from a time of fixed telephony alone, when you take a phone number, you decide in advance whether you want to receive calls that are commercial or not. So if you choose not to, no one has the right to call you and to ask you to accept any communication that is commercial. In many other countries, for example in the UK, it is very clear that communication via mobile phones can be done exclusively if you do something that, professionally in English, is called double optinas, or you have to double allow someone to communicate with you. That means he has to ask you twice to get a confirmed answer, even if you initiate communication, he has to ask you once more to get an answer from you. So, this kind of communication is something that is not common in the world, and I expect it to be regulated in a proper way, or unless it is regulated, that the Commissioner for the Protection of Information against the public importance protects the privacy of our citizens and initiates the initiative to solve this problem. I'm saying, it can be solved, even at the level of the fixed and mobile phone operator, which one of the codes of conduct can solve, or they can rule out the phone numbers of those who perform such communication. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11117	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11118	Thank you. Question for the Minister of Education, Mr. Sarčević and Police Minister Mr. Stefanovic, concerning events of peer violence at the "Takovski Uprising" school and the procedure, both during the event and the school director Branka Žizovic. Namely, there was violence in that school, and her mother reported her child being harassed, beaten. She went to the doctor, to see evidence of the violence she was kicking, from the students of the elderly, in the doings, applied, to make a statement to Director Branko Žizovic, which in the free quote reads – that she does not understand why it is raised to a higher level and why the Centre for Social Work and other institutions is involved in a children’s gambling. So, I ask the Minister of Education what part of the process within the Ministry is in the relevant sectors, talks with both the school and the school director, and the conduct of the Ministry under the Regulation on the conduct of the institutions in which the violence is taking place, which is in force. And the police minister, in which part it is and what stage is the ministry department's conduct, which, in co-operation with the Social Labour Centro, should also be under the Protocol on the treatment of cases of violence in institutions. Why is this my question important, and why do I expect both ministers to respond within 15 days, knowing what the Director said? The director said it was minimal what happened, that it was irrelevant. The principal gave public support to peer violence. This, apart from being prohibited by laws and regulations defining all types of violence, including regulations submitted by the minister of education and by the police, is unacceptable. It's inadmissible from someone who's in charge of a school principal. Our high tolerance for violence, our contempt for the suffering of children who are victims of peer violence is unacceptable. From these two questions, my request to all of us who, in the nature of our work, have some kind of public function, some kind of public obligation, some kind of power of public word, to watch what we say when it comes to peer violence, when it comes to violence against women, when it comes to violence against people with disabilities, to be very careful about what we say. If we have evil stereotypes in our heads that it's always been like that, children have always fought to forget those stereotypes because they're forbidden as behavior. The regulations that we have decided together in this assembly, and the authorities and the opposition, would be good if this case, firstly, had no tragic outcome to which the mother and child of the victim would be blamed and there would be no tragic outcome to which the director would tolerate the minimalization of the case of peer light, would be good for us all to reach consciousness. In research done in Serbia by 30.7% of children, a sample of over 57,000 children in schools in Serbia suffered some kind of verbal violence, abuse, 15% of children in schools suffer some kind of physical abuse. If we don't understand the extent of the child's panic between six, seven or 15 or 18 years of age, then we're in vain bringing regulations in this assembly, if we're going to keep the unhappiness of institutions that have been paid out of the budget as well as all of us to prevent peer violence, to act preventively, to support the victim, to support the victim and the bully, then we're just going to testify only by insulting cases of violence both at school and in the family and on the street. Atrocious is stupiding. Please do not be disgusted, but to act and therefore ask the two ministers – at what stage are they based on the protocol on acts of violence in institutions of business, sectors in their ministry? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11119	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11120	Ladies and gentlemen of the respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the first issue goes to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic, about the 2016 budget. I will remind the Prime Minister first of his statement on 10 March 2014 at a pre-election event in the Pinki Hall – "Whatever reforms we are taking, whatever dear friends are going on, keep in mind one thing I guarantee you, the pensioners will be the last in whose rights anyone can touch in the country. It is better to take everything off our backs, and there is nothing to take from the pensioners." As we have seen in the 2017 budget, 47 billion dinars are foreseen to pay guarantees on the debts of incompetent public enterprises running incompetent party personnel, where the state must pay their debts for them because they are unable to do so. On the other hand, 20 billion dinars were taken from pensioners, public sector employees, including teachers, doctors, nurses, etc. 22 billion more, a total of less than the loss of public enterprises. All taxes are increased, electricity excise is introduced, all rates are increased by more than four years, as much as Aleksandar Vukic is in power. The last step in taking money from citizens' pockets and businesses and giving that money to other foreign investors and incompetent party personnel and increasing the flat-rate taxes faced by many citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the family business sector and businesses, and there are over 200,000 in Serbia, employ more than 400,000 people, after two years have finally received solutions from the tax administration, so solutions which now require that by the end of the year, they invest in the deficited taxes. So they've been retroactively raised in their flat tax, and they're forced to pay for it. This is the way the Prime Minister, or Prime Minister, gets the budget, so it's my question for the prime minister – when will he stop taking from the citizens and from the economy, patching up the gaps in the budget and giving money to foreign investors and incompetent party personnel? Is this the reform he promised and which is obviously in direct contrast to the statement he made in March 2014? Another question for the Prime Minister, we have one letter from the Citizens' Protector, who answered some of the allegations made by the prime minister, so since that letter did not get the light of day in the media, let's say for RTS, I will read it here in the National Assembly so that citizens can hear this – "Dear Mr. Vukic, on December 30th, you are in public speaking to Serbian citizens, in direct transmission to all national TV channels, among other things, saying about me and more people that we are apostles against the state and their people, they because they were once in power, and I was then very pleased with the rights of minorities, as you said. It's not the first time you've been untrue about my work, the Citizens' Protector and the annual report from 2012 before will show more of a problem in the area than the report for 2015. Unfortunately, neither the reports for 2015 nor 2014 have been discussed in the National Assembly, although this is the obligation by parliament, but it could not prevent you from reading, as they were personally sent to you for information and publicly published these reports. However, the content of the report for you is not of importance, but of the need to say something bad about the Citizens' Protector, that is, about me personally. There is, however, a much bigger and more dangerous problem, not only for the people you mentioned me, but much wider for democracy in Serbia. You have marked before the entire Serbian public several citizens of Serbia, including the Citizens' Protector for opponents of the state and of your people. Emphasizing such a terrible grade, I don't want to take it any further because of her obvious senselessness. However, you are obliged and you must make sure that no Serbian citizen has the right to say such a thing, no one has the right, especially you." The prime minister replied that he had no obligation to answer these questions, that he was not really interested in it, however, that he had an obligation to explain to Serbian citizens why he calls other citizens such words, why he insults press conferences and why he says others are against the state when it's simply not true? We only have a different way, or concept of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11121	The word is by MP Ivan Manojlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11122	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my question today is addressed to the competent inspection services, first of all to the municipal inspection services. In recent days, and as we seem to be getting close to New Year's Eves, we were expected to be informed more closely about prices for New Year's Eve, the prices of kevapa etc., but something else appeared. In Serbia over the last few days, another gentleman appeared, we expected estrate artists, but so he was able to decorate, so from different trafos, water supply sites, etc., means all those places that are explicitly banned by the Law on Advertising and Advertising of Political Parties, but also other commercial advertising, so there was a slogan of our famous military leader, with whom we can really determine the only thing we might have in common, is that his last name, Misic, might have a slightly different accent... (Saša Radulovic, from the post: To whom is the question addressed? ) The question is addressed to competent municipal and inspection services. Is there anyone under the slogan "who can, who can, who can," can really abuse the law, break the law, and put out of the election campaign promotional material? Here we have another photograph where there is really no choice of places, so even among the dead, political propaganda material is being placed. We are also asking the Anti-Corruption Agency. Since December is the month, that the elections are announced somewhere, about April or May, how is this political movement financed, which has been advertised here all along to represent a social category of citizens, and we see that the militias spend money and go into a pre-election campaign, and the elections haven't been called yet? So, where did the funding money come from for four months' campaign? We really don't think Donald Trump could afford something like this on such long paths. Also, we expect the competent authorities to act in accordance with the law and to approach, if necessary, the removal, or, already, in accordance with their competences, determine and punish such offenders. Not punishment for being punished, but for sending a clear signal to others who are likely to start this good part of the opposition and to advertise, and for someone who spends all the time here trying to destabilise parliament, who is trying to obstruct parliament, and then boasts that it is actually for parliamentaryism, and is found amongst the dead, and is found on the power traps outside of the election campaign by spending money, we would like to know, of which the money is funded by this movement that may have allowed citizens to realize that it is a new person on a political scene and 16 years are present in Serbia. But, well, after 16 years, someone can give himself the right to be called a new man. Although it has already been proven in practice that they are neither innovative nor able to come up with something new, plagiarism is a feature of such people. Since he's already used this slogan – who can, he can, I'd only add that - and who doesn't know about fear, he goes forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11123	Since none of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups are answering for a word anymore, we are continuing to work. We would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Milisav Petronijevic and Predrag Jankovic. We continue our work and move on to a search in detail on the 15th item of the agenda – the proposal for a law on airport management. In accordance with Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they are invited to attend today's session: Prof. Zoran Mihajlović, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, Aleksandar Damnjanović and Miodrag Poledica, State Secretary at the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, Jovanka Atanakovic, Zoran Milić and Veljko Kovacevic, acting as Assistant Minister of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, Mirjana Cizarov, Director of the Civil Aviation Directorate of the Republic of Serbia and Andrijana Jovanovic, Deputy President of the Commission for Public Private Partnership. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Zoran Zivković, Vjerica Radeta, Nemanja Sarović, Milorad Mirčić, Vesna Nikolic Vukalović, Zoran Krasić, Miljan Damjanović, Natasa Jovanovic, Jovo Ostojić, Nikola Savić, Marko Milenković, Aleksandra Belačić, Gorica Gajic, Milan Lapčević, Dejan Šukić, Marko Đurić, Miroslav Aleksić, Goran Bogdanović, Nenad Konstantinović, Zdravko Stanković, Srdjan Nogo, Boško Obradović, Ivan Kostić, Marija Janjušević, Zoran Radojić, Dragan Vesović, Miladin Ševarlic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćić, Radoslav Milojic, Gordan Jesic, Gordana Čomić, Balša Božović, Maja Božović, Maja Šižović, Maja Šišavić and Prištavno Vrsanović as well as well as well as well as Moštav. You have received the Report of the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's Opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. I'm setting a five-minute break, until the proposing's authorized representatives enter the O.R. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11124	Dear MPs, we are moving on to the debate of the amendments. On the 1st title above the members and the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by Members Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojičić, Goran Ješić, Gordana Komić, Balša Bozovic, Maja Vidinović, Natasa Vukković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic and Veroljub Stevanović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Gorica Gajic, Milan Lapčević and Dejan Šulkic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11125	Thank you, President. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, our interventions in general in the law had the intensities to make the law clearer, more precise, and to remove those places that, in our opinion, leave room for such creative interpretation of the government in the future or whoever applies the law. In this respect, and in Article 1 where Article 2 provides for what happens in various cases that can happen in the management of the airport, that the award of concessions for the airport is excluded, the law establishing public-private partnership and concessions shall apply. As it is written, according to our interpretation, other laws can be applied. Since there are various cases and various laws in the position of the 2nd member. We have granted our amendment and added a new position that says that only the provisions of the laws governing public-private partnership and concessions are applied to the concession procedure for the airport. In your explanation for not accepting this amendment, you say this is listed as an option in point 2. We believe that it is not precisely defined enough, that this better formulation is because the concession law itself says that this concession procedure is governed by the Law on Public-private Partnership and concessions and only by that law. So we believe that there was room and need for this amendment to be accepted and we are sorry that the government did not do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11126	The word is from MP Vlado Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11127	President-in-Office, the esteemed Madam Minister with associates, respected fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, I suggest that this amendment be not accepted for the reason that Article 11 of Article 2. The Law on Public-private Partnership and concessions from the "Official Messenger" of the Republic of Serbia No. 88/11 and 15/16 provides that all other issues of importance for the award of concessions for certain areas of activity of the position of the 1st member may be governed by a special law governing the area or activity. The above-mentioned laws have provided an opportunity for the issue of importance for the granting of a concession for airport management to be governed by a special law, which appears to be a proposal for this law. In relation to Article 1(2), the reason for the adoption of this law was to grant an airport in a concession within the meaning of the provisions of the Law on Public-private Partnership and concessions, where there is a cooperative relationship between the public sector represented by the state and the private sector which, in this case, takes over the management of the state-owned entity, i.e. "Nikola Tesla" Airport, given that it was at a plenary session, between 20 and 30 years, with around 10m euros in concessions annually plus some 400m euros in concessions for fees. Since air traffic is expected to expand in our country and in the whole region it is necessary to prepare a financial framework for the more efficient commercialisation of Serbia's airports. This law defines the activities of airport management as the subject of a concession where airport management is a measure of general interest. Belgrade's Nikola Tesla airport serves about five million passengers during the year, with 350 000 registered in November. It is among the best in the region as regards respect for the time of take-off and landing. In her opening statement, Minister Mihajlovic listed a number of airports, and today I would like to point out and say a few words about the Sombor airport, which was defined in the spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia as intended for civilian needs, and the government's decision of 26 December 2002 gave the agreement that this airport, along with the airport of Boats near Kraljev, "Ponikva" near Zlatibor, was put into civil traffic. Unfortunately, the Somboro airport has not yet received this purpose. I'd like to say a few more technical words about this airport. The airport is located in the western bacca district seven kilometers from Somboro and nine kilometers from Luke Apatin. It is located at 707 hectares of which 350 hectares is a fertile orna. It is realistic to expect that for the needs of the army, 200 hectares are sufficient, and that all this remains, and in line with the proposal of the Airport Management Act and the introduction of a categorisation of an airport complex covering the area of the airport from which the part of the military and part of the land necessary for the development of the airport is excluded. According to this, the Sombor airport has all the conditions to become a civilian. In this area different activities can be developed, such as building aircraft maintenance hangars, free customs zones, developing intensive agricultural production, above all, vegetables, construction of cargo warehouses, etc. Technically, there is a concrete flight path at Sombor airport, which is 1800 meters long with 60 width, and besides that there is a summer grassy road of 1600 meters times 150 meters. The air traffic conditions have changed. The company's lou-bone, cargo traffic is on the rise, as is the number of passengers transported. We can't explain now how much this entire region would bring to life and how many workers would be employed, thereby increasing purchasing power and improving the lives of the citizens of the region. By the way, the Sombor airport is considered an alternative to the airport "Nikola Tesla". Accordingly, it would be desirable to initiate again and continue the talks with the Ministry of Defence and bring them to an end, so that possibly the Somboro airport enters the concession process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11128	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11129	I think it would be important to create a framework for today's debate, whether we will stick to the Rules of Procedure and talk about the subject and discuss in particular the amendments, or whether we will repeat the story from the principle debate. I think it is a good thing that MPs of the ruling majority are now defined to be able to talk about everything and repeat discussions from the principle debate in the discussion of details. We heard about the airport in Somboro, there's obviously some scenario to tell stories that haven't been told or to repeat themselves when there was a principle debate. I think it's important at first just to find out that you've set up this framework and that if on this side of the Assembly there are discussions that may be a little outside the framework of the amendment itself you're not responding, as you haven't responded now, you let a fellow MP tell what he's told, which has nothing to do with the amendment that's the subject of the debate, then I'm just asking you to keep this criterion until the end of this debate, because the debate is large, four laws, 800 and some amendments. I'm sure at some point we'll be in a position to ask whether or not we're discussing the amendment. If this is how you define the debate, I think it's important that we all know that until the end, we can all behave the way the rules apply today at the meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11130	Thank you. You didn't even allow me to ask after this discussion of the MPs to be an exclusive debate on the amendments, otherwise you'll spend your time with your MPs on something else. It certainly takes the time of the parliamentary group, if the MPs do not want to talk about the amendments, they will confuse the citizens who are watching us. But you didn't say a member of the Rules of Procedure either. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: I said, Article 106) You didn't say. Well, whatever you say, it will be. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11131	Thank you. I use the time of the mandated representatives of the DS parliamentary group, with the desire to support the amendment explained by MP Marko Djurisic. Even if I had dilemmas when there's no need to accept why I don't listen to the reading of explanations and easy little essays about anything, then I'm absolutely sure that no one who wants to say don't accept Mark Djurisic's amendment actually doesn't know why he would do it, at least that's what this hall sounds like. I hope he knows, because it's pointless for him to sit here and not know why he's against an amendment that's perfectly acceptable. It would be good for the government to accept it, as it would be good for the government to remove any doubt that the spirit of this law and that the inaccuracies that are corrected by the amendment of counterpart Mark Djurisic do not lead to any kind of legalisation – give it to me, mine, was the first to see corruption, which we are witnessing in cases and when there is no law. When you put it in the law, then we all have a problem together. And our amendments, as well as my colleague Đurisic's amendment, are only for one purpose, to avoid problems we do not need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11132	On behalf of the members and members of the 2nd amendment, Members Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojičić, Goran Ješić, Gordana Comić, Balša Bozovic, Maja Vidinović, Natasa Vukković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic and Veroljub Stevanović submitted together. The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11133	Thank you. As the previous speaker, Mrs Comic, has said, we are proposing to delete Article 2 because Article 2 is a potential source of corruption, as well as this whole law that you are proposing here, and you are about to give a personal description of who you are preparing the airport for concession, one of your members, one of your tycoons. That is why we propose to delete Article 2, as well as the whole of this law, which you will see in the further texts of our amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11134	Parliamentarians of the Dveri Group submitted together to Article 2 of the amendment. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11135	Realising that this whole law has just been passed in order to accommodate someone's management, above all, at Nicola Tesla Airport, we have looked back and submitted the amendment to something else in this position. Knowing that we already cannot prevent alienation, i.e. the administration of this airport, we wanted to protect the defence system and the Serbian Army by exempting it from the application of this so-called law. mixed airports, those airports that are partly used for civil purposes, for the purposes of civil traffic, which are mainly airports used by the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army. So, we believe that they should be excluded from the application of this law, because the change of the controller, or the arrival of a private manager, especially the airport manager that would be abroad, could significantly affect the work of the Ministry of Defence, the functioning of the Serbian Army and the security of our country, so we really need to take care of what we have left of the military, what we have left of security, even if we keep it, because it's clear that we've destroyed a lot of the defence system in the last sixteen years, but let's once put a stop and let's finally stand in defense and protect our military interest, because if we don't guard our own army, there will come some other army to defend us.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11136	On behalf of the above members and in Article 3 of the amendment, the MPs of the DS Group together submitted. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11137	So, and this member of the Parliament Club DS has submitted an amendment, precisely wanting to draw attention to what the aim of this law is. It is clear that a concession is being prepared and we also saw in the previous explanation why the previous amendments should not be accepted, that a concession for airports is being prepared, especially the airport "Nikola Tesla". We're asking how cheap and what's being announced is? We do not see this strong argument and the motives for passing such a law, especially if we boast the results of Nikola Tesla Airport, where the profit is shown annually from 25 to 30m euros, with insufficient effective leadership and concessions that individual airlines have in that sense, in those 25 years the expected profit would be of around 750m euros with the majority ownership of the state. I think it raises the question, with an initial investment of 300m euros and an expected profit from such a transformation of Serbia's states. We think it is important to establish a model and universal approach, above all, towards the infrastructure of public enterprises in Serbia. I think it is necessary to isolate and separate the infrastructure, which represents the runway and basic infrastructure of the airport itself and not only "Nikola Tesla", but everyone else, and that the market should be developed over operations. We think it's important that the state retains a control package of at least 51% to manage it that way. That is why we have submitted all these amendments and I therefore express that view of the DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11138	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11139	I have to react so it doesn't go undetected. Your parliamentary group all the amendments it has made to this very important law that definitely completes everything called air traffic in Serbia, all the amendments are "explicate". I'm sorry it wasn't a good mood for you to turn what you're trying to discuss into a text. Therefore, your amendments are “expunged. ” Secondly, the amendment "is deleted" on Article 3, just to be clarified as well, in terms of concepts, so that a lot of what you've just said is somehow not in agreement with that amendment. It is also my duty for the citizens of Serbia to explain only a few things, precisely about these amendments that you have submitted as "explication", which is that this law is very important. It's important to define what the Air Traffic Act didn't define. These terms, mentioned in the Air Traffic Act, are simply not in the opposite, that's one. Two, whether there will be a concession, what will look like further development of "Nikole Tesla" is something the government has not yet made a decision on yet, but what the government has as a result is the safe profit of the "Nikola Tesla" airport, which exists, which is growing year after year, unlike reminding again that there was no profit and that there were constant losses during some other governments not led by the SNS government. So there's a profit. The goal is to further develop the airport. The goal is for the region's "Nikola Tesla" airport to become a kind of hub. Why was there no profit and why was there no profit from “Nikola Tesla” airport in some previous governments? That may be the question for your MP group, but anyway. So our job is to create conditions and take care of infrastructure and everything, and I'm going to do a little parallel with the management of the port infrastructure, where it was always a problem when you privatized them.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11140	Time, thank you. The word is made by MP Goran Ciric, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11141	You were talking about getting the airport. Great, and of course we're rooting for the airport to be even more successful next year and all of our public enterprises are getting more successful. Unfortunately, there are not many of them, especially we will talk about the state of public utility systems later. Especially at the local level, and some other utility systems. When we talk about the airport, it's a simple question. It is not the clearest explanation that already announces the possibility of issuing an airport and awarding a concession for some 300 million as announced. As long as it's gonna be, we don't know that. We can't know. If we have a simple calculation and that with this way of running the airport, where there must be room to be even more efficient, and we cheer to be more efficient, the airport shows 25 to 30 million profits per year. If a 25-year contract is announced, 25 squared is 625. So 625m euros and the state's participation in that same profit. If we expect it to be more efficient and that profit to grow from year to year, then it's a larger amount. About 300 million are mentioned here. Now, this is our question – the way the entire government and state will treat public systems and especially infrastructure? We repeat again – why did we not translate into amendments? You asked us this question – why did you not turn this proposal into amendments? We had one day for these 20 laws, how much each of us in the congregation had that space and time to respond to all these laws and to all these members. Do you think it's realistic to give that kind of amendment? We're telling you now that attitude. That's the point of keeping most of the ownership of the infrastructure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11142	Thank you. Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11143	I'll take my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11144	No, you took the line. You can't use time. You've got to call back, then you've got to keep going. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11145	The task of the state and the government of the Republic of Serbia is to create conditions for economic growth and development. So the conditions are created by this law. So there's a possibility that we can choose this law to invest as a state at some point, or maybe we can go to some other form of partnership, and not just this law. Also, it's not just made for "Nikola Tesla" but for all airports. Whether the explanation for you was unclear, believe me, at your request of the amendment "is deleted", I can't look at the beans and that I know what you wanted to ask. Thank you for asking the question. Now I've answered you, I hope.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11146	The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11147	We really do not understand why the amendments to these laws, i.e. the amendments to the Law on concessions and the Airport Act, have already been made, if we have heard that the airport "Nikola Tesla" is doing so well that it has increased profits and is expected to grow in the coming years, with the development of air traffic, that profit will be higher and higher. So, we had a problem with that airport, with better management. We got a more efficient management, a bigger profit that will multiply in the coming years. And suddenly, we have a clear announcement that we will give concessions, that we will give Nikola Tesla Airport a concession, because it is good for the airport. Excuse me, what's the problem, if the airport is doing a good job, if its profits rise, if that profit is paid at the expense of the Republic of Serbia's budget? If the prime minister himself said that out of the company's profits, the gaps in the budget will be filled, the salaries and pensions will be paid, that the profits will grow every year, then why do we give it to the concession? Where did you suddenly estimate that you'd get 300, 350 million euros for the airport? This means that someone has probably already spoken to someone or received a concession offer of 25 to 30 years for that amount of money. If so, since it can be logically concluded from these statements that this is the basis for the adoption of the law, or the amendment of the Law on concessions and airport management, excuse us, will you tell us who you predicted and who you predicted to give concession to the airport? If you didn't see it coming, then what about the emergency procedure of amending the concession law? This amendment to the concession law plays a single role, which is to enable that potential concessionaire, who you've spoken to and probably already agreed to, to give the airport to management. Since this is not possible under the existing laws, we are going to change the law to allow the airport to get to the concession and therefore you are DSS MPs in all the members where the concession is asked to throw these parts out, because it is not logical, nor normal to have something that works well, which has profit, of which the state benefits, of which budget users benefit from being given a concession. I guess our main concern in managing the state is that what's good, what brings income is ours. How come it's always an idea when it's good in the state of Serbia to sell it or to give it to a concession? It's the same case with Telecom. Telecom earns 250m to 300m euros each year, has profits, profits, and is paying into the budget of the Republic of Serbia, but that is not enough, but a new campaign for sales of Telecom is being announced each year. Excuse me, why don't you give the concession, for example "Azotar" or not give "Rakovica" or any bad company, which is making losses, which is the budget of the Republic of Serbia for damages, or we have to pay, cover these losses? Why isn't that a concession? Everything that's good and profitable we want to sell, to give to the concession, and there's no elemental, economic logic. Of course we're going to ask that all amendments that go in that direction not to create conditions for sale, or for concessions at the airport, and that will be our condition to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11148	The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11149	The main problem with the law is that the government's discretion, or discretion, is to decide one way or another. That's why it's better if we don't have the law than if we had it the way it's written. The reason for the amendments is deleted when you send the law to the Assembly, then you schedule a session Friday night and it starts Monday morning. I don't know what you're expecting. So in this way, we cannot have a serious debate and then it comes down to looking at the law as a whole, we conclude that it is bad for the citizens of Serbia and then, of course, amendments that say "expect". When we talk about the concession, the reason why we'd go into a concession somewhere, is because we have some economic interest. The law should state that the government must explain this economic interest and that there are some criteria that are defined by law, not how the Government comes to mind. Speaking of which, the minister mentioned, that successful public enterprises since the SNS took over, to remind them in the course of discussions on the Budget Law, we only said in 2014 to 2016, for three years the losses of public enterprises for which the state, or taxpayers have to pay guarantees, because they cannot repay the debts themselves, 93 billion dinars. Yes, 47 billion dinars are foreseen in the 2017 budget. This is the data from the budget. This tells us about the government's success in running politics and managing public enterprises. So, the main problem is that there are no criteria in the law and complete arbitraryness, and there is no government obligation to explain the reasons why it gives something in the concession or does not give something in the concession. I repeat, the reason why something would be given in the concession, if there is an economic interest clearly explained. He's not here. As for the Belgrade Airport itself, for example, huge losses arise by forgiving the services provided by "Er Serbia" so that Er Serbia will show itself to a profitable company, which it is not. She's a big loser. Otherwise, airports are owned by "Nikola Tesla" Airport, owned by Serbian citizens, in large part. The government takes it upon itself to dispose of that property as it comes to mind. It just shouldn't be like that. The law is bad, because there are no defined criteria and there are no defined clear criteria, no transparency, no government obligation to explain anything when we decide to say that airport to anyone in the concession.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11150	Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11151	I know it all sounds nice to you to come out and talk like that, but we still have a few things to explain. First, it is not true that anything is forgiven "Er Serbia". Since 2015, there has been no write-offs, so "Nikola Tesla" and "Er Serbia" airport are also operating market. "Er Serbia" was income in 2014, so 31 billion, 2015, 36.8 billion. As regards "Nikole Tesla", its income increased for example in 2014 to 2013 51%, etc. So, you're wrong about the data, because you like to talk about data, and everyone thinks you know them perfectly, then it turns out that's not exactly the case. But, on the other hand, you also very much welcomed how much I know about this co-operation with "Er Serbia", there is a newspaper here, therefore, Italian where you were giving, you were a guest together, as Minister of Economy of the Republic of Serbia, with Er Serbia you saw at an event in Italy. This is recorded in the Italian newspaper, where, I quote, you said very clearly, so Serbian Economy Minister Sasa Radulovic, I apologize, I will read in English, we can translate - So this move for "Er Serbia" is the first healthy example of the partnership made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and thank you, you said that as Minister of Business of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Well, then you got out of the government a little bit and now you're telling us nothing's wrong. Well, wait, I mean, this is you, this is what you told me. So so much for what they're saying, but let's just go back to the Airport Management Act now. So it's not just about "Nikola Tesla" Airport, it's about all airports, our desire and intensity is that as a government, we create conditions, that business is being realized, and you know it and nothing more than that, and we'll see how it will be.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11152	Thank you. Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11153	Thank you. I use the time of authorized representatives of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Since the minister had a comment on what, and when, and how the progress of the airport began. I believe that you are demeaning the work of a very good government minister in 2008-2012 without any need, Mr Milutin Mrkonjic has done a lot of good work. The fact that he didn't want to give money out of the Arab budget, I think he did it right. Why did he vote afterwards? What's he gonna do? He's gotta do it sometime. So, if you want to compromise with perception or with the vision you have as a representative of the ruling coalition or of the Serbian Progressive Party with someone from the Democratic Party, I suggest we change our approach and watch what has been done, not who has worked. For example, I think you're doing a great job as someone who runs the Coordination Body and that the results you've achieved despite reality are something that will be remembered for the good. As I believe, the Task Force, which in your ministry is working on a chapter of one of the few that has progress in the report. Four total sectors have, one is yours. So, what you're doing well, that's what I mean, as I think Mr. Milutin Mrkonjic has done a lot of good things. I don't agree with him or politically, I don't agree with him right now, but it can't erase the reality of what the result is. We can't all say that they're black and white, because it's a childish denial of reality and where our amendments come from. We do not agree that "Etihadu" should be given "Er Serbia" money from the budget. If you were someone who belonged to my party, who's in power, I wouldn't agree either. So we have a different perception of what to do with the money from the budget. I consider myself an investor, because they're scratchers, because they were invented after 2008, after the economic crisis, when there's no money anymore, so it has to be taken out of the budget, so it's been given to the banks, it's called the Dale car, so now it's given to whoever's called the investor. So we disagree strategically, your right and my right. I use my right within my party to tell you, you've passed a law that gives up countries in the region. They give up concessions of highways, give up public-private partnerships. You have examples around you, let's not repeat other people's mistakes. That's all we ask, the amendments are deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11154	Srjan Nogo.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11155	As for the whole debate on this amendment and on this law, we have, in principle, reiterated that this law is precisely the aim of the "Belgrade" Airport and that the whole law is adopted to allow concessions at the "Nikola Tesla" Airport, which we find very wrong. You wouldn't agree with the numbers I've heard from an esteemed opposition colleague. I think it's a lot more than 600 million in those 30 years, because even in these conditions, when the maximum profit from Belgrade Airport is pumped in every way possible, you have plus about 26 to 30 million a year, and we heard from the minister that the growth was 51%. So, it is expected that the huge growth in income at the "Nikola Tesla" Airport is clear to everyone, even the largest layman is clear that "Nikola Tesla" airport will grow with revenues, grow with the number of passengers and the transport of goods, so the real question is – why would we give that profit that will surely be over a billion euros in those 30 years? Why would we give someone that profit? That's one key question. Furthermore, the technology that would possibly be installed in that airport will just go out of date for the next 30 years, so we're going to have to give that investment ourselves again. I would only agree with one finding that earlier bad business was being done at the airport, but the question arises – why now the competent state authorities do not reconsider the business. Recently it was news that the "Duffrey International" deadline for all local leases is currently running out. These are the free shops famous for the airport, which get it for ten years, when the director of the Airport in 2006 was Nebojsa Nedeljkovic, if I remember correctly, and he works at the same firm at the same time. I'll remind you that it was you who were at the airport at the time he was the director, because he hired you as his friend and that you were with him for two years at the airport, and he was misremembered, as head of Belgrade's Airport.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11156	Sasa Radulovic, please. By amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11157	Yes, I know, you took my replica without any basis. I thank the Minister for preparing herself so well for the session, so there are already prepared print screens, citizens, I mean, they understand what this really looks like. To tell the Minister that I was never in Italy, nor did I make statements there. At the time, we introduced ID cards, and when we introduced a personal ticket to "Er Serbia", they started delivering data, and at that time I made a statement, as we set out to introduce order. However, the moment we found that "Er Serbia", in the second half of 2013, made a loss of over 30m euros, I think about 38, means only in the second half of 2013, compared to the first half, when the old JAT management had a 10m-euro loss, then we had a serious problem and I resigned afterwards because the management of "Er Serbia" did not want to co-operate with the ministry. The same "Er Serbia" then received a grant of over 70m euros from the budget in 2014 and received a grant of over 40m euros from the budget in 2015, 110m. This is your profitability and the introduction of order as you speak, and you didn't say anything about these other public enterprises that I mentioned, which from 2014 to 2016 made a hole in the 93 billion dinar budget by payment of guarantees, and then envisaged 47 billion dinars in 2017 and, of course, by this successful management of SNS. Not to mention the losses of "Serb Irons", which are about 270 million in the last two years. So, and you ran away at the end of these things and the essence of the law, and to repeat the essence of the law is, there are no criteria in this law. Based on which, which are economic parameters, on which we decide to give the state something in the concession, rather than everything left to the government, which is obviously unable to make bad decisions, often corrupt decisions through secret contracts and in a secret way. Here, let's say, the best example is this latest lighting in Belgrade that's being paid out of the budget, it's being set up for a Greek firm. So this is how you run public enterprises, this is how you run both local self-government and state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11158	Only by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11159	Madam President, it's about amendments and topics right now if I'm still dealing with explanations why we don't need the law. Perhaps it would be good if we had done them when the debate was in principle. If we're going to do every amendment, I'm afraid he's going to lose his purpose at some point. But about whether to delete a member per member. We don't think we should just because we think the law is in our favor and when someone here mentions that the essence is any story on whether or not we should open up... . for the concession or not? Economic benefits, yes, of course, and I guess that's clear to everyone. So, the essence of the proposal to open up the possibility by law, that the activity of governance, you take care of it, is solved through a concession on a contract. We think it can be realized to benefit this country and that's probably clear enough and pure enough motive. Of course, it has nothing to do with someone's problems that the law, as far as I can tell, arrived at you on December 6th. Read, if there is, how much? Eight pages, without these accompanying arguments. I don't consider it a relevant basis for any erasure, giving up any debate, and at least for the basis to talk about anything but the law. How much the lighting of Belgrade or anything like that has to do with this law, well, it just takes so much to come up with these ideas to discuss what's just someone's interest, the idea of erasing anything because someone hasn't read it, doesn't understand it or doesn't understand it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11160	Ambassador Radulovich, do you want to re-apply to the amendment? Saša Radulovic: To repeat this exhibition, I really don't care what SNS MPs think, we discuss with the government and we want to get answers from them, and keep your opinions to yourself. So the bottom line of this and the main problem is there's no criteria, well, we're not even going to open the possibility of signing concessions where there's no criteria and there's no transparency, that's what we're talking about. Thank you. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic. The word is Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11162	Thank you, President. Article 3. has a name – terms, and of six points, five are prescribed terms of the Air Traffic Act. So, from word to word, we suggested that it be deleted. If they already exist in that law we don't see any reason to be this, too, prescribed, same parts of the law. Do you need it or not? Is it according to the rules, the methodological rules for making regulations, we can discuss, but the problem is that the government doesn't apply the same criteria. So sometimes it goes to put into the law less, sometimes it goes to put more. Our impression was that putting these points was simply the government's need to make this law, to say, more seriously, that he now has more members, that these members have more attitudes and that when someone reads he thinks the law is good. What praises this law, that's what you've been listening to and when it was a principle debate and now, here's from the beginning of the debate which it is not precise enough in its other parts that there are no clear criteria, which does not talk about how this concession will be given. I don't know if you, Madam Prime Minister, were here when the budget was debated, the Prime Minister here told us unequivocally that, as there is no budget for such concession revenues for the airport that we will do next year. So he didn't leave any dilemma that we were going to go to. You're saying now, you don't know. I'm telling you that this law has been written that we just need to sort out the rebus somehow to get the name of the company that it was written for. And you're saying, I'm very glad that you're saying several times you said the government creates conditions for business. Here, in that case of public debate, we see what kind of business it is. So, all under the law that only one company can come forward, probably some party man who only has those painted Santa Clauses as it's painted in a tender and then a firm comes forward and only in Belgrade gets 200 million dinars of lighting work in Belgrade, so it happens again in several other cities, where probably all party friends, members of the SNS' main board, open up the company overnight, report and get a job. And that's the business environment you're creating. Well, it is a business environment. It's a business environment that doesn't make you have two billion direct foreign investments this year. This is the problem of why our economic growth, which you boast about the smallest in the region, is that there is one country that is smaller than us. And that's why these laws are not good for Serbia or its citizens. And we will discuss here as long as we have time on all these eight hundred and change amendments, probably, unfortunately, we won't be able to talk about everyone. Why are these bill proposals, what are they not good? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11163	So, let me just ask you. Am I stripping you of the group or the authorized? (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Authorised. From authorized. The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11164	When you talk about business conditions and when you're talking about it all, it's so interesting, it sounds really interesting, everyone would read news like that, if I didn't know someone was going to buy a company somewhere, so they're going to make it overnight, so they're going to create it, so there's no deal. Because if there were, Serbia would not be in the first 10 countries in the world under the business conditions reforms it has achieved in the previous two years. It's the World Bank report, it's not my report, it's yours, it's the World Bank. While some other parties were in power, we were 176 after construction permits were issued. We're 36 in the world now. So don't talk to me about business conditions. You're wrong about that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11165	Mihajlo Jokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11166	Dear MPs, I think this amendment is a proof of inadequacy. Why? Because this Article 3 is present here for this law to be one whole. He's here for methodological reasons. Therefore, no real, rational reason exists for you to submit this amendment. So, just one indiscriminateness and you're complicated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11167	Thank you. The word is Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11168	It has been well noted that this member is there to make the law more serious, and is essentially prescribed by another law and already exists in Serbia's legal system. Regarding business conditions, the same World Bank says Serbia is the first in Europe at the rate of the vulnerable population from poverty. It's the price of those reforms that Serbian citizens are paying, the wrong policies. So, you're talking about some move to issue building permits, it's a great shift, from 176 to 36, I say hello. When are you going to bring down the villas of the President of the Republic, illegally built on the coast of Sava?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11169	The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by Verica Radet and Nemanja Sarovic. The word is "Verica Radet."
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11170	The amendment that we have submitted to Article 3 concerns the concepts of this Airport Management Act, and we think that this position should be deleted for the simple reason that what is provided for in this article and this position is already regulated by another law. It is not good when something that has already been regulated was first not necessary to pass this law, since we already have a law that regulates the air force and air traffic, but it is especially not good when this is how the concepts that have already been developed in another law are inserted. The question that would be good to ask the minister and where do we expect the answer, given that this law, among other things, speaks about the establishment of public interest in expropriation, administrative transfer and incomplete expropriation of immovableity for the construction of an airport, the question concerns the "Nikola Tesla" Airport, the construction of a second runway and the question is - is the plan done, or the detailed plan, whether the construction of a new runway involves part of the destruction of part of Surcin, objects in Surcin, or the plan to do so on the other hand? In each variant, the land you plan to explode is the land sold to certain natural persons, i.e. they bought under duress, but because they had information on where this second landing-summer path would be built. Something about it wouldn't be bad, Minister, if you told us.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11171	Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11172	The plan is under way. As far as these 700 facilities are concerned, they won't be torn down, they're excluded from the airport line.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11173	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by Milorad Mircic and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by Zoran Krasic and Miljan Damjanovic. Zoran Krasic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11174	So Article 3 refers to something that are definitions. In the inability to reach 20 and some members of this law, it then resorted to the statue of everything and everything and in Article 3. The bill contains definitions that already exist in our legal system, particularly in the Air Traffic Act. But it's an interesting thing how the motionary resonates. He says about an amendment, a member of the 7th unique methodological instruction, a methodology for writing regulations, allows for the introduction of definitions, and they say – we can define. In this amendment regarding airport fees, since we know who we are dealing with, we prescribe a provision from the Air Traffic Act, they say – and, no, it cannot, it is not in line with the EU Directive. We are not members of the EU yet and, thank God, we will never be. Here, you see that divided thinking. So, just to write the law at all costs. Anyway, I've been trying a little hard to find out if there's a similar law somewhere with a similar name, a governance law, and I really haven't found anywhere. Usually this is regulated by the air traffic law, and our air traffic law has one dozen regulations concerning airports, including the use, and the management, so which legal persons, so how, then the operator, and the fees, and all this, and all that, and the register, and the certifications, etc., etc. There's obviously something about Belgrade's system on the water, Nikola Tesla's on the ground, and there's someone on the plane who's got his eye on something. I don't think this law should be passed. Now to correct you, since you had a little bit of a mix-up, in 2010, "Nikola Tesla" had a net profit of 18.3m euros in 2011, 15.1m euros in 2012, 6.3m euros in 2013, 141,000 euros in 2014, 28.2m euros in 2015, 27m euros. In 2010, there were 420 employees, and on 31 December 2015 1,871 employees, and of which 1,253 were really employed, and this second one was on temporary work, about 450 were through youth cooperatives. Just to draw your attention, two days ago a single data was released, i.e. the expectation that Zelizara Smederevo would receive 20m euros in 2017. So in 2015 there were 28m euros at Nikola Tesla Airport. I think that story about some future concession, some future sale would have to move a little bit on the side. I have to tell you, there's a sale of what's going on in the country. No one buys a tractor factory that doesn't work, only good goods are bought. No one buys the beaks, buys the lipicaner, buys, you know, Arabic, breeds of good buys. What's bad, nobody buys it. It all depends on the seller. You know, a salesman in Serbia lost his money. No more cheap credits, there's just a broadcast of paper that's expensive, and then there's got to be a net estate to be inn. In order to preserve power, we are under great danger that anything that is successful can be sold for reasons of being sold to preserve financial stability, etc. I do not think that this law should be passed in any way, and if there is a very good offer for a concession in the part of new investments, the existing Law on Public-private Partnership and concessions allows and such a possibility, there is no need to go with this special law. Just to draw your attention yet, I think it's very important, it's forbidden to prescribe norms from a more hierarchical act into a lower hierarchical act. We have a situation here that 90% of the provisions are the modification of some of the provisions of the existing law. Why? To be something like the law on Belgrade on water, to be about the same. So, in practice, there is no special law on the management of these airports. It's something we can patent, we can sell the EU, we can say it's a new directive, it's a draft new directive that the European Commission could adopt in 27 years. So if someone is in a hurry, please understand, everyone, Serbia will be a member of the EU in 2389, before that can be done. But, you take care, it's your right to want, but it's our duty to say if there's any damage to your wishes. You're doing a lot of damage at your best. I'll give you good examples of privatization later, like our cementists, who in five years twice pulled out the total capital they invested in our cements. Why? Because they also got a natural monopoly. Airports are a kind of monopoly.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11175	The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by Natas Jovanovic and Jovo Ostojic. The word is Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11176	Madam Minister, I see you have not accepted this better definition of what an operator is, which we wanted to fix with this amendment in Article 3 at point 5), but I will use this amendment to ask you, since it is related to airport management, where it is stuck and what is happening, why is the building of the Morava Airport still locked? In fact, I am able to pass very often, because my family house is only a kilometer from entering the port building and I want to tell you that the locals of all the surrounding villages, as regards the Morava Airport, as well as 38 municipalities that are gravitating to that airport, because the project that started in 2012 would bring a lot of revenue to the state of Serbia. First because it is two million potential travelers by some projections, the huge investments people expect because it is an agricultural end, so it is normal and natural for people to hope for it in this area, people in the Western Morava valley are most concerned with fruit growing and vegetables, and then there is the most important aspect, and that is the tourist potential of Gornja Trepca, where President Gojkovic, then Kopalnik, Goc, our monasterys, the greatest sanctity, Žiča, Studenica, Ivanzavica, Guca. Is there anything else to say? So that's a big problem, and that's not the end of it, it's normal for people and locals and surrounding villages or all of these municipalities to expect someone to simply come and open the key and say, as of this day, that this airport is going to work, which, according to the projections of very serious people who have dealt with these analyses, can drag about 30% of the passengers from some other airports in the surrounding countries, and especially this is strategically important for our people, especially for the diaspora, from southern Serbia, from central Serbia. I want you to tell me today if you are finally able to tell me what month it is, in your opinion, by seeing the prime minister and all the government authorities, when the Morava airport will finally start working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11177	We're in the process of closing a contract with the Department of Defense that invested in investing in the terminal. So, the business company, Serbia's airports, will make a deal with the defence ministry. I have to admit it didn't work out with some dynamics, as fast as we expected because the Department of Defense asked to pay off the money they invested in building the terminal. We're having talks and negotiations right now, because I don't think it can be a distraction or we can bid on that money. I hope, when you ask me about the moon, I really hope that in the first half of next year we can finally talk about having finally traffic at an airport that was built, built and that has a terminal building like it does.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11178	On chapter 2 of the title above the members and Article 4 of the amendment, the MPs of the DS Group together submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11179	Here this member is talking about airport management, and we have also discussed in explaining the previous amendment with the minister exactly how we have proposed these amendments - is deleted. Exactly, out of the protest and the way this law was imposed and the way there wasn't enough time for intervention and the way we talked about it. It is important for me to clarify here and for the public and for all of us, because it is obvious that the announcement of a concession is primarily an interest in the award of a concession for the “Nikola Tesla” Airport. This is about infrastructure, and I'm not sure we've got the space to talk about the amendment to Article 3, and that's the need to invest. Of course, the motive of the concession is further investment in infrastructure. If you are talking, and there are certainly many experts who know the airport's infrastructure, many say the Belgrade airport currently does not need a new runway. Here, we talked about expropriation and the possibility of investing and subtracting land and investing in a new runway. The runway is in a direction that is dominantly important because of winds blowing and making landings at Belgrade airport difficult. If there was a need for an alternative, it would be a crossroad. Obviously, if you invest further in airport infrastructure then another runway would be built. We are witnessing the frequency of traffic at “Nikola Tesla” Airport and this is a question of the motive of a potential concessionaire to invest in this regard. So, I'd like to hear from Madam Minister exactly that opinion and the way it will be managed by future traffic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11180	Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Savic and Zoran Krasic. The word is Nikola Savic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11181	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4. A bill on airport management where I asked my amendment to delete the member mentioned. What reason did I ask for that? Simply because existing regulations do not allow one person to operate and another person to use an airport. But this is not the only thing and the only fault of this law. This law has a lot of inconsistencies, a lot of inconsistencies, so it's best that he withdraws from the procedure. When it comes to the ownership structure of the airport, the law is absolutely discriminatory, as some of the provisions of this law speak of the law as not applicable in cases where airport management is subject to concession. I really don't know why the government decided to take this step and why the concessionaries favored each other. I'm not saying this because I come from Nis, and you know there's another airport in Nis near Belgrade that's currently in office and working, but these concessions are really something that in the general opinion of all the people in this room and the general public will only do harm to airports. The low airport is still at that stage that these concessions can't be, it can't be the subject of the concession, it hasn't yet reached that level of development but above all this applies to the Belgrade airport. When it comes to Constantin the Great Airport, which has shown remarkable results in the last year, year and a half, where the number of passengers has increased widely. For example, in 2014 the number of passengers was about two, three thousand, and now in 2016 we end up with a number of passengers of about 125,000 with all the analyses and all the tendencies saying that this number of passengers will grow. We heard from the minister that the government, i.e. its ministry, has invested some 4.5m euros in this area, and as far as I know when it comes to Constantin the Great Airport since it was responsible for these jobs, not a single euro has been invested in the airport. When we're done with this discussion of mine, I'd like to hear the answer to that question. By the way, Konstantin Veliki Airport has an exceptional importance for Serbia. Nis and the airport themselves have exceptional geographical significance, it represents an alternative to many airports, such as Sofia airport, airport in Skopje, and even Belgrade airport and airport in Pristina. I'm saying that the government somehow doesn't care enough about that airport, because we can see that they haven't invested enough funds in that airport lately. Of course, I have to be objective and admit that during the previous period, he gave some equipment to Nicola Tesla Airport, but it was at a time when the government was operating the DS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11182	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11183	Well, we didn't invest so much in government for these two years that it's out of 1,000 passengers as it was before this government was formed, there are 70,000 of them today. That's probably how it came after nothing was invested. So, four million euros were invested by SMATS, the Directorate and "Nikole Tesla" of equipment, from equipment to be able to fly, or that air traffic could be done both in bad weather and night, which was not possible two years ago. Of all the things that were necessary for the airport to meet the basic conditions of obtaining a permit at all, when we talk about security, that we can use such an airport. Secondly, what remains to be invested in the airport is a new tower to be created, some kind of reserve of "Nikole Tesla" airport. So, I apologize, I don't know where you got your information from, but they're absolutely incorrect when we talk about investing in the government of the Republic of Serbia, and above all, this ministry is supposed to raise Nis airport and we have almost 200,000 passengers next year.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11184	The word has Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11185	I'm using MP's time by amendment. We heard this argument from the minister, it turns out that from two, three years ago, he's flying from the airport, which is just not true. I think it could've been invested in technology and equipment, but it flew from the airport before 1999, but also when it was reconstructed. It is true that the biggest investment was made just thanks to the then city of Nis in 2002 and 2003, and the donation of the Norwegian government of sixm euros. It was an investment that cured those wounds Nis carried with 30 other missiles in a runway at the airport and with great courage by people who allowed flying from the airport. It was, therefore, also in 2003, 2004 and 2005, true, with a lower frequency, but technically, technologically, all of this was prepared and could be flown from the airport. So what you're saying is that this equipment in the last two or three years that you donated made it possible to fly from the airport simply can't be true.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11186	Thank you. National MP Zoran Zivkovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Let me just extend the time. Dear Members of Parliament, pursuant to Articles 27 and 87, pages 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the Assembly will be working today after 18 hours, for the need to discuss all amendments and pass the laws from the agenda of this session. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11187	Just for the truth. Here's the data here. Year 2014 – 1,335 passengers at the airport, 2015 – 36,258 passengers. For now, in 2016, I have here data since October, so I have no December, 81,723 passengers. Don't say anything that isn't true. I fought a lot for the airport, and I don't accept anyone telling me something that's not true. Not once, not a year earlier, could fly in conditions of reduced visibility, nor could it fly at night. Thanks to these two years that we've provided all the equipment to do this, we have this number of passengers. There were never so many companies or so many lines that there were so many passengers flying to Nis. Really, just to be more specific.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11188	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11189	The time of the parliamentary group. In 2014, you said 1,300, 1,400 passengers. Well, who ran the airport and the city of Nis then? It's great to be growing the number of passengers now, in the coming years, but in 2014, also catastrophic data, but who was leading the city of Nis at that time? But regardless, I wasn't talking about the number of passengers, I was talking about the infrastructure and what you said, that only with an investment from two or three years ago could it fly from the airport. We all heard that. Simply, it was also in 2002, 2003, and all the following years, with a lower frequency, with a smaller number of passengers. However, JAT flew both to Frankfurt and Zurich, flew for a short time to Paris, to Charles de Gaulle, but failed to maintain those lines at that time. With the lou bone companies making this big step and it's really important. But respect the work and some predecessors. It didn't begin from the moment you came to the head of the ministry or the work of the airport. The first thing was to be re-designed, so in 1999, we had this accident and the bombing and the destruction of that airport, so it had to be re-designed, because it was a military-civil airport. Then it was necessary to redeploy and transform it into a civil-military, with a great understanding of the military and then receive a donation from the Norwegian government, which was at that time a condition. You probably know that, too, but you also mean those people who did a good job at that point, which is a great prerequisite for this growth in the airport, and of course many other infrastructures...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11190	The word has a minister, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11191	Just for a little while, let the citizens of Serbia know again. So, the city government in Nis paid the Montenegro Airlines to fly from the airport by the end of 2013. They invested sixm euros to make Montenegro fly. If they had invested that money in the airport, then we would have had another "Nikolu Tesla" minority. For the record, we broke it off and trained the airport and now we have commercial flights. I guess the goal is to have commercial flights.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11192	The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11193	Thank you. I would fully support the minister, what she said was true. The period until 2012, we know how much funds were allocated from the Nis budget to help fly to Montenegro. That was a lot of money. But I remember the time back a year, two years, and how the airport began to have expansions and passengers and infrastructures and a large number of flights. I think the airport is a real place where you can see the difference between the year 2012 and the year 2012 and 2014 respectively, 2015 and 2016, as well as now. I think the airport is the second to have even more traffic intensity in the coming period. There will be up to 700,000 passengers, as modernization and runways and equipment are planned. I think that our government, headed by our prime minister and the ministry run by you, the minister, is something that is important to the citizens of Nis, the Niš region, the southeast of Serbia, because Nis will be the centre and airport of the entire part of Southeast Serbia, both in the economy and in agriculture. There is the progress of the entire region, where the centre of all events is the airport and the entire infrastructure. I fully support you, Madam Minister, and I think that some people who were in some previous period at some key functions in Nis have a lot to regret about why something was not done in Nis and now it's done.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11194	The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by Zoran Krasic and Marko Milenkovic. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11195	Yes, Article 5 has the title – Terms and conditions of the operation of the airport management and the status of the airport operator. Please, the status of the airport operator is fully regulated by the Air Traffic Act. You don't need to enter that provision here, because even when you prescribe something, you can miswrite it, so you can create some confusion, so we don't know what law applies to these things. But here's the point of this: the activity of airport management. Now, that's settled by the Air Traffic Act. It's something called airport activity, the activity of the airport operator. But here, the word "management" is used to make an even better connection with the public-private partnership and the concession, because it can transfer the right to governance. It's something that Vuk Draskovic invented back there in 1996, 1997, when he wanted to introduce a French plumbing here and when it was scattered to see what their investment was, they have no investment. Wait, what's their action? They're good at reading plumbers. They're infallible at reading the plumbers. Now, here's the management of this particular function. I suggest you put this law out of order. If there is a serious concession in the existing regulations, you have plenty of space to finish this job, but then you would have to prove quite a lot of interest in both the airport and the budget for both the people and this kind of monopoly business.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11196	Thank you. Parliamentarians of the DS Group together submitted the 5th amendment. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11197	Thank you. Rubrum above this Article 5 reads: ‘The conditions and methods of carrying out the operations of airport management and the acquisition of airport operator status’, and is not valid. So, just that this member has the whole law to delete, it should be deleted, because Article 5 does not speak of how airport operator status is obtained. It's the result of this process that I call normative optimism and what I was a great opponent of, with very little success. I don't expect success for myself now – let's keep an eye on the copy-paisy and with the idea, there are people who read really. Why? Because in Article 5, four points define the operations of airport management can be performed. So he runs the airport, doesn't need to catch up to him. That's what happens in the Air Traffic Act. A public undertaking, under one, and two, a limited liability company and a company of capital, the sole owner of which is the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province or units of local self-government, as well as a subsidiary whose sole capital company is under three, a capital company in which the majority owner of the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province or units of local self-government and under four, other capital companies and an undertaking entrusted by the competent authority with the performance of the airport management activity. Which one of them will gain operator status? You put him in the law. Which one of these you listed is gaining operator status? How? It doesn't work, it does, but there are people who read carefully. Why isn't a member in general any good? Because normative optimism implies that I pick up from different laws, not paying attention to what consequences it leaves in other laws, because in three last positions this member serves to tell you that some other regulations apply to the business of these companies, item 1), item 1, to the rules governing, of course, the legal position of companies, that in carrying out the activity of trust in a public-private partnership, in order to ultimately show that the activity of airport management can be subject to concession, as well as a public-private partnership, in accordance with the law governing a public-private partnership and this law. What are you going to do, and I should have a very clear answer, and how are you going to apply this law to a point that says you already have an airport that's in the concession? You want to break up the concession agreement? You want to make a deal between the old and the new concessionaire? Who's gonna decide that? Where's the state here? So our desire to say -- delete the member comes from only one fact, which is that the member, whom we're looking for, is either completely inapplicable, or is yelling from the paper about a kind of legitimate position for non-transparent, not public and always prone to corruption, when it comes to airport management. I don't think you're going to accept one of the amendments, but I think it's good for future dialogues, because with this law we're going to have trouble applying, to remember that it's important to compare together the pictures of how this law looks applied, so that we know how much normative optimism is sometimes wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11198	The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by Gorica Gajic, Milan Lapčević and Dejan Šulkic. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11199	We have suggested that in Article 5(4), the first point is deleted and points 3 and 4 are also deleted in the same article, because they are talking about the possibility that airports are given a concession, which we also believe is not in Serbia's economic interest and that what is profitable, which is good, which is the property of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which is the property of the state of Serbia, which gives great profits, should not be the fruit of concessions, nor potential sales opportunities. This is also the case with other public companies owned by the state of Serbia, because national goods, national wealth, should serve the state and citizens to obtain income from this, to further develop from those revenues going into the budget of the Republic of Serbia airports and other activities, in order for citizens to benefit from this, rather than from concessioning someone who will collect that income at the expense of our citizens. We think that everything about the concession, for what is good, should not be in this law and for these reasons we have suggested that these views in this article be deleted, believing that this is not in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11200	The People's Messenger, Michaelo Jokic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11201	I think this amendment should be rejected because the concession is not imposed, it is an alternative. So this is where you say it can be, and it doesn't have to be. Therefore, to say in advance that there will be something to comment on in the amendment, I think at this point it is too high and unnecessary and that the amendment should be rejected. Of course, where management is good, where profits are made, there won't even be concessions. At least that's how I understood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11202	Thank you. The 6th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by Zoran Krasic, Aleksandra Belacic, and together by MPs of the Democratic Party group. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11203	Since it is quite obvious that there is a majority and that this bill will see the light of day, that these amendments of ours will be so rejected, I use the opportunity, which gives you exactly an article 6, just to draw attention to you that this isn't the only bill, that you don't get me wrong, in the sea of our laws where certain issues of monopoly are being opened, etc. The constitutional norm of public authority is simply forgotten. Air transport is public authority, airport activity is public authority. It's always been. So it's always been. Keep in mind when you say that in different capacity forms there can be enterprises, companies of capital that operate or operate at the airport, that they are not in the same legal position, are not in the same legal position. Take care. Take care, above all, of the constitutional standard of trusting public authority. That's one thing. Second of all, why do these things have to be profited from us? You've expanded to utility companies, public utility companies, that logic. Public utility companies should provide the necessary conditions for living and working in a given space and make these services as cheap as possible and should not be profitable organisations. In our general cry for money everywhere we want to make a profit. Totally unnecessary profit. Remember, public authority doesn't mean what you wrote in this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11204	The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11205	I would ask you to read the names of all the MPs who signed the amendment, not just the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11206	They all are.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11207	Since you're reading everyone else, you can also read the DS MP group.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11208	I can't. When she's a whole MP, it's not an obligation.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11209	The amendment defines who can operate the airports. So, public enterprises, companies, entrepreneurs. This raises the question of public interest, what will happen in particular. Here was the dilemma – why do we predict that there will really be concessions or not? A former colleague talked about it. You're the one who announced it. I think that there was also talk about the price and possibility of issuing a concession for "Nikola Tesla" and that is why we are talking about it this way. What will happen when an entrepreneur comes to manage the airport, say, "Nikola Tesla" or any other, but above all "Nikola Tesla" as the largest and most significant, and force one or two companies or just one company in which it is possible to connect with interest, capital and in any other way? This is why I repeat, the majority ownership of the state and the infrastructure control action, and precisely because of the failure to achieve a monopoly and not to favour a single company or infrastructure operator. This isn't just about airports, it's about other public systems, but now we're talking about airports. Therefore, it is extremely important that we take care of how this will affect competition, the prices of airline tickets, because, I'm sure, some experience we see in the region has just shown that the concessionary, of course, wants to extract his assets as soon as possible, that he doesn't even want to invest and invest again, but that means that the prices of airport services are rising, which means that the prices of airline tickets will grow. That's why we intervened in this way, and that's why we're opening this particular topic and the question on this article.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11210	The MPs of the Democratic Party group together submitted their names above Articles 7 and 7 of the amendment. Members of the 7th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic and Vjerica Radet. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11211	Yes, we suggested that Article 7 be deleted, and Article 7 provides for the obligations of the airport operator. We think that this is not a matter to regulate by law, especially since, under the Air Traffic Act, there is also the obligation of the competent Ministry to adopt sublegal acts that already exist, where it is regulated, and the smooth and safe use of airport infrastructure, quality maintenance and protection, is also airport infrastructure, etc. So we just don't think there was any need to put this into this bill. Minister, you are somehow avoiding the principle debate, and even now, according to the amendments to answer the key question, which is the economic motive for these announced concessions for, above all, the "Nikola Tesla" Airport, if known, here is Krasic, mentioned that "Zeljezara" was dealing with profits, business with 20m euros in profits, and Vucic and all of you in the government are boasting, which if so, is commendable, if nothing else for not giving money from the budget for "Zelezar". But if you boast of that 20 million, and in 2015, a further "Nikola Tesla" airport made 27 million profits. Then where's the economic account for that potential concession? We would understand if you'd done highways with concessions, and if you'd done so today we wouldn't be one of the most indemnity states, and we wouldn't have with today's 10 billion public debt, 3.102 billion dinars of debt. So, no, you're not doing well, you're not working in the interest of the citizens and you're not acting domestically, and that's our general objection to the Vucic government.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11212	The Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the Minister if he accepts this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11213	Yes, I accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11214	The amendment is accepted. Thank you. On behalf of the above members and of the 8th Amendment, the MPs of the DS Group together submitted. Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11215	In the edge of Article 8, the authority of the founder, i.e. the majority owner of the airport operator, is another crystal clear example of the propriety of normative optomism. What's he trying to solve, Article 8 and what's he done wrong? Let me add, I'd like this article never to be applied. Never. To just stay on paper, bad, good, changed, whatever you want. Because this Article 8 provides for provisions in its views on what is going on in the event of disturbances in the performance of airport management. He's got points in his mind and he's got it mixed up. The powers normally conferred on the Government, the powers normally conferred on the Agency, air traffic powers, to add, at the end of the last position, if the concession officer is no longer able to provide conditions for continuous air traffic operation, the concessionor shall take measures in accordance with the law governing public-private partnership and concessions and concession contracts. What's this attitude doing in this law? What's he gonna do? Why do you call on Article 8 to apply the second law? Of course it will, or it won't. How can I tell you, it goes through all the members of this law. I understand why. Because you want to legalize one process that you don't think is legal enough if you take it under the concession law and the public-private partnership, which it is. It's legal enough, and here you're just introducing unnecessary misunderstandings, leaving room for interpretations and mixing parts of the law needlessly. If we want to talk about it when we apply concessions, you have to understand that we listened to the Prime Minister, who said at the budget debate that next year "Nikola Tesla" Airport is going to a concession. If he didn't mean it, I'm sorry. That's what you had to say to him at the government that it would be sometime. He said there would be revenue from the airport concessions. Did it go off? I have no idea. As long as you think you're a master of your thoughts, when you say your thoughts, then you're a servant with those words. We have this debate because of these words. Because of those words, perhaps more cautious than other laws, from the point of view of how much normative optimism there is, I look at each of these members. That's what the debate is about. There is no way that anyone in honor and, as my mother says, goes through this assembly, whoever it is, whether I support it or not. Please understand this discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11216	Thank you. Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11217	I'm trying to understand, but I'm very sorry, because now you're discussing with a lot of energy, and I'm glad, about such a very important law, then why no amendment that you forwarded has been deleted, that you haven't made any proposals, so that we can really have that kind of debate now. This way, all your amendments, to all the members of the law, are deleted. That's, therefore, the DS amendment. I'm so sorry about that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11218	By amendment, MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11219	I'm using the time of authorized representatives. That's a suggestion. And as long as we don't understand that the flaw of this law won't get away from what you're telling me – I won't talk to you because your amendment is deleted, until we have a common problem. I did not ask you if you liked my amendment, I asked you what your position in Article 8 would be – if the concessionary is no longer able to provide conditions for continuous air traffic management, this is a member, who continues to say – the concessioner takes measures in accordance with the law, which determines the public-private termination of the concession. It's not this law. And by contracting a concession, he's not defined by this law. So we can still talk so you don't like my amendments, I understand that you don't like me, I like you, on a variety of grounds, but what do we do? Like many others who want to do their job, it's no use. If you put this attitude on the Sombor Airport essay, which is mentioned here, which is in the concession, according to the concession law, cannot perform, what will this member do to you. What are you going to do to a concessionary in Sombor? Who's going to act on this? The matter is much more serious than the ease that you can try to eloquently despise the work of an MP, whether opposition or ruling. For the end, you're much better off when I criticize you than when they read your explanation and praise, believe me. They'll see it in a few months or a year.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11220	Thank you. Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11221	Just a little addition, I understand even that way of fighting, to write yourself deleted, so you get more time, but time is won in the elections, and you don't get it on the amendment. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11222	By amendment, MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11223	There are no choices that can save you from, not God, the application of this member at the Somboro Airport, which has been issued by the concessionaire. Our misunderstanding is banal, but deep and insurmountable. If you want to send me contempt because 250,000 people decided to vote for the DS, you are showing this contempt to those people who voted for me too. I respect every vote you've received, from the heart and honestly, because people vote for you, 1,750,000 people who voted for the SNS have the right to make that choice. I defend their choice, because if I don't defend, I can't defend my own. You challenge me to speak for the 250,000 people who voted for us. You may be lucky, it may seem like luck to you, so there is no one else who will want to vote for DS, then it may seem to you that you have solved all your problems, and then, wherever you are, read the laws and ask someone else – why are you putting into law an attitude that has nothing to do with the law, it cannot be applied, and why are you defending it with open contempt of the DS? It is of no benefit to anyone, and the least future concessionaries who read this law, so watch what they should do in case they are temporarily prevented from managing. The ease we want to maintain our advantage and silence our opponents is never an easy one to demonstrate the knowledge we possess, but, of course, the folklore of this Parliament has remained. I don't blame you, I'm just asking that when you do sublegal acts, it's clear somewhere what the last position of Article 8 is doing now. Nothing more, nothing less. In the election, anyone who wants to vote for whoever they want to vote freely, vote because they feel the will and desire to vote and give you all the time you think you deserve. It's, how do I tell you, the thing I've been fighting for 26 years and I'll never stop, just like I'm fighting for a culture of dialogue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11224	Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11225	To be clear again, there are no emotions in the business that we do precisely because there are neither positive nor negative emotions. It is our job to create conditions for, say, one or all airports in Serbia to develop, because this law applies to all airports. So, I defend the law with results. I don't want to go back to it now, but are you making me talk about all the losses that existed in JAT? Should we talk about everything that happened at Nicole Tesla Airport until it started investing in the airport and the privatisation of JAT took place? We are now in a position to invest hundreds of millions of euros in various ways to reach that airport. Do I have to go back again, so that you can tell me – here you are, calling on us again. But the results say that there was indeed a very bad air traffic situation while being run by the DS, that now the situation is in air traffic that it is the only free traffic sector, not us but Europe says we are part of the EU. Only so much – results. Nothing else. Emotions? Emotions, we can talk about it outside of this room, not here.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11226	The word is made by the MP Gordana Komic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11227	We don't need to talk about it all. We should talk like this. I ask – how will you apply the last position in Article 8. which reads: If the concessionary is no longer able to perform the conditions etc. they will then address the Law governing the public-private partnership and concessions and the Treaty on concessions. That's what we need to talk about. Article 8, you can shake your hand as much as you want, you can say – the manté is, don't answer yet, this stays in the law. He was the one who wrote that the law should enter into force on April 31st, so I asked him if you were normal and he answered me – write the amendment. He won't be able to. So what we need to talk about is, since you and your associates are making a bill to us, to tell us how and in what cases the last position of Article 8 applies, no less. You can put emotions into it, I have nothing against emotion, but if you ask me what we need to talk about, that's what we need to talk about – why are you making a law in which a key position is, what are the powers of the founders in the event of performance disorders? The conduct disorder has been defined by the Air Traffic Act. What's your last position in Article 8, that's what we need to talk about. You tell me – this disorder happens, and then we apply this attitude like this. Anything else can, but it's useless, and it's a little embarrassing, and it's useful for someone. What do you want to do?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11228	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Shormaz, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11229	This is not the point of the agenda of asking questions to the government right now, but rather the debate on amendments, and the amendment says - is deleted. With all due respect, I don't despise anyone, especially I respect the applicants of the amendment, but we can't replace the thesis. The clear point is that the amendment deletes the whole member, not just some attitude, which is unacceptable. Alexander Vukic's government has shown that he knows how to do all the jobs, including those in this sector, and especially the ministry. Progress is visible, not only at the airport "Nikola Tesla", but also at the airport in Nis, where we have a monthly increase in the number of flights. So it's no longer a question of whether during the year, but a non-stop increase in the number of flights from Nis and getting better and better running that airport and air traffic in the country. So, this law should be supported, such amendments should be rejected because, as well as appropriate, this law will certainly make it far better and more quality, a greater inflow into the budget of the Republic of Serbia and, more importantly, better quality of services for our citizens, which is a commitment and government, as well as us as MPs to make it possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11230	Thank you. Members of the 8th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic and Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11231	Not to repeat what has been heard in this article's debate so far, but just to draw attention. You know, the founder has some rights and the owner of the airport's capital also has, based on ownership, some rights. It's all regulated by some other regulation that's much stronger, above all, the Company Act, so if we move forward, the Capital Market Act, etc. I don't know where the need to bring in this special member now, where something would be defined in a special way, and when it comes to the airport operator and when it comes to the problems of doing its basic work, we already have the Air Traffic Act that prescribes what happens, what relationship. And I'm going back to doing business out of public interest. Simply, I don't know why this member, because this member, by his own spirit, is contrary to many provisions of existing laws, but he is also contrary to the Law on Public-private Partnership and concessions. We will later reach Article 20 which is obviously contrary to the relevant member of the law on public-private partnership and concessions. There's really a question here what you wanted with this law to achieve. All of what you wanted to achieve publicly or to deal with interpretations that are your interests, all of this could have been achieved by other regulations that are in force. So, you did something that should be a lex specialis, and he's a lex confusion. Literally speaking, lex confusion. That's why we submitted this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11232	Thank you. National MPs Gorica Gajic, Milan Lapčević and Dejan Sulkic together submitted the 8th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP Milan Lapčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11233	As in previous amendments, we have analoguely acted, submitted to this member to delete St. 3rd and 4th because they allow the airport as a public good to be given to a concession and we believe that it has no economic justification, that there is no logic and that we are persistently asking the Ministers and its associates to explain to us why this possibility is now being put into question in an amendment to the law, and what are we going to get if we give it to the “Nikola Tesla Airport” on a concession, what will we have more than that and on what basis do you conclude? I just heard, first of all, that it's not going to be a concession, it's just giving way. We would be inclined to believe that, before the law came to the Assembly, we heard from the prime minister who said, although no one asked him about it, nor was the airport the subject, in the sense that the airport was making losses, that it worked badly, where it says – we are the closest decision to giving concessions for the Belgrade airport on December 9th to the age of 25 to 30, where he explains how much money will be obtained, etc. Can someone tell us why these conclusions were made, why we get an interpretation from the prime minister, or an announcement that he will be given at a concession, and then we get a law that allows this publically to be given to a concession? Does that mean that tomorrow we can expect to get a bill on giving a source of water to a concession, managing a highway to a concession, a mine, or whatever?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11234	Thank you, Mr. Lapchevic. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11235	Thank you, Your Honor. It's this attitude four that's been talked about a lot, and we've suggested that it define itself differently. It should be noted that in the event of a disturbance in the performance of airport management activities in the manner referred to in Article 7 of this Act when the management activity is the subject of a concession, the concession provider shall take measures in accordance with the law governing the public-private partnership and concessions and the concession contract. We think it is important to clearly define the position of what happens in all those cases when problems happen as defined in Article 7 of this Law, because the previous position of this law practically relieves the concessionary of any obligation to act. While this exists as the obligation and authority of the founders and cited cases in which measures are taken and what measures are taken, only attitude 3 is said that, if the management of airports is the subject of a concession agreement, this does not apply to concessionaries. We think it's bad. Obviously, the government's intention is to release a concessionary who, I repeat, I'm sure knows who he's dealing with, some of the obligations that they're talking about and protecting the environment and other things. We think that this is bad and that the law should treat the concessionaire, i.e. the use of the concession in the same way in rights and obligations as the founders in this law. I think it's important that even in this debate, since we've heard from the Minister again about some alleged losses, the airport in the past, I'd like to hear exactly the years and amounts when they were losses. I have now checked on the Belgrade Airport's "Nikola Tesla" website, a financial report can be checked by anyone to see what the financial reports are like. For 2008, the profit of 1,350 billion dinars, 2009 was 1.7 billion dinars, 2010 $2.24 billion dinars, 2011 1.58 billion dinars. These are the amounts which are less the same compared to the profits made by Belgrade Airport in 2014 and 2015. It is not something dramaticly increased, as is the growth of the number of passengers, which can also be seen, I will read it, because if someone has no ability to go online now, and can look at, in 2007, the increase in the number of passengers by 13%, in 2008 by 5%, in 2009, the decline by 10%, in 2010, rise by 13%, in 2011, increase by 16% of passengers more, in 2012, increase by 8% more, and then is, the biggest increase in 2014 31%. Yeah, I'm not gonna keep that quiet right now. But in the last two years, that increase is only 3%. Only 3%, because Belgrade Airport is completely facing only one airline, Er Serbia. Other airlines are not eligible partners with Belgrade Airports, they are now moving to other airports, which doesn't have to be bad. I hope, for example, the airport in Nis reaches the level of passengers that has the Airport in the Tempisvar. There are millions of passengers in the Temisoara airport this year. The Temisvar is 320,000 inhabitants, almost the same as Nis, and there's a million people flying from there. I'd like to see the government's plan to have a million passengers in Nis in two, three years. I would welcome it and vote for it anyway, but the problem with this law and this concession is the problem of the entire government policy. So we heard in the budget debate that the concession is worth several hundred million euros, which will come into the Republic of Serbia's budget. Then I ask the question where will the money be spent? Will it be spent on forgiving Petrochemy debt, say, 105m euros to write off by the end of the year? Here it is, the law has arrived and we need to write it down, it is 105m euros, according to a colleague, no matter what happens, 105m euros in business, the Petrochemy leadership set up by this government. Their work or unresponsibly or irresponsible work should now be amnested by Serbia's citizens taking that debt on their backs without establishing someone's responsibility in the process. We are against it, and until it's done transparently, we will not support such laws. I have now presented the Minister's information exactly which I found on "Nikola Tesla" Airport's website, so I would like to be denied. I didn't have much time and ways to explore it better than I did and look at the financial report of "Nikola Tesla" from 2008 to today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11236	Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11237	First and foremost, I will repeat every time we discuss this Airport Management Act. First, any decision the government makes will be public and transparent. The government did not discuss or have at all one item on the agenda at its meetings, concerning whether to go to a concession or not to go to a concession, etc. At present, we have chosen as you know, a privatisation consultant, who should give us suggestions on what would be best based on many analyses, not only "Nikole Tesla", but based on many projections, based on everything that is going on in the region, what would be good to do for "Nikola Tesla" to continue to develop. When someone asks what you're doing now, when "Nikola Tesla" is in excellent shape, because to stay on top, a huge investment must be made in "Nikola Tesla" that the airport does not have in this situation. So every decision will be transparent, public and transparent. The process, if we decide on a maybe concession or anything else, will also be public and transparent. The whole procedure will be like that. We are witnesses of various procedures that have appeared since 2000, far from being transparent. This one will be transparent and discussed. It's the most important part of this story that you've mentioned now, because it's constantly going through how we gave the concession, decided how someone exists. No, it doesn't exist, the decision hasn't been made. That hasn't been discussed yet. You'll know her, we'll all know her, we'll be able to talk about it. As for the fall in the business of Nicole Tesla, the decline was indeed in the quality of business and we all know it. There were no large numbers of destinations, now 57 or 58, or some very important direct flights that were necessary to exist so we could even talk about the airport. At the moment JAT was privatized, there were 3.2 million passengers, and today we're going to go to five million passengers. That's two years.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11238	Thank you. On chapter III above the members and Article 9 of the amendment, the MPs of the DS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11239	Thank you, Chairman. We propose to delete this member, as well as delete all members because in Serbia, it is known to everyone, institutions do not rule. There is no legal state in Serbia, but there is a law-making system under the "said Vukic". This is exactly where Vukic told us that he would go to the airport concession next year and that we would have income from it in the budget register. Why do we need income in the budget register when that cash register, as you say, is full of SNS, that we have surpluses? Then this law is a follow-up to where the Wolf said it was. On this basis, "said Vukic" the minister, ministry and assembly are passing a law that is bad. I'm asking again, why didn't you put in the number of SNS tycoon ID that was scheduled for the airport concession, when you're doing everything so obviously. (Zoran Krasic, from the place: What's his name? Well, probably some Zvonko Veselinović, probably. Or others, since they're all tycoons in SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11240	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11241	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's going to be short, there's no need for it to be different. In case anyone missed sightings, the auto-projection seems to be working on Tuesday afternoons and during the day. So what it looks like when someone, for example, has a constant need to get up, something says on the SNS theme or transfers it to us to feel a little bit important, we've seen it in this room countless times. It's usually tragic, empty, rainy, aggressive, it's usually very loud. And what it looks like when his paper is late, so he doesn't know how to say anything, we just saw it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11242	The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11243	I repeat, the decision has not been made. You know why he needs money in his budget? The money in the budget is needed because we have to invest in health care, in school, in everything you didn't invest in. I understand that you, although it's a shame, as a professional economist, should know little about income, expenditure, etc., but given that you've never faced money in your budget, since you've spent it all, here, I'm telling you why you should invest. Secondly, not to be rude, not just you from the Democratic Party to tell us about the tycoons. Please don't. Really, it has nothing to do with this debate, and you should not be telling us about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11244	According to the amendment, the word has been made by MP Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11245	Thank you. Mrs. Mihajlovic, if I'm not mistaken, you said you needed money to invest in health care. For five years, the SNS has been in power, and only 30 kilometers from here, in the municipality of Mladenovac, parents who bring children in because of high temperature to take syrup or pills with them, because the home of health has no money to provide for our children. Well, you've been in power for five years, so why are you in this state of health? Why are children being treated today with text messages, since you care about health care?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11246	Mr. Milojičić, I'll make it up to you if you want to talk about the amendment to Chapter III, the name above the member and Article 9. (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: I said time group. You cannot use time because you are not an authorised representative. (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: I said group. Groups you can, I'm sorry, I didn't understand. According to the amendment, MP Marijan Risitičević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11247	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is the time for you not to count on me while the trainers are practicing. So, you shouldn't accept the amendment for the simple reason that the explanation we heard here doesn't stand. It's almost touching when someone from the Hyneken and the chase stories about tycoons. It is therefore unacceptable to accept this kind of amendment because the tycoon was the party's financial director, it bought three sugars for three euros. When they talk about tycoons, then we need to know that in their time, tycoons and foreign ambassadors had just ruled along with them. As far as we can tell, they've been asking less and less lately. When they talk about robbery and thieving, let's say "Petrochemicals", we should know that this 400m-euro debt "Petrochemicals" dates back to their time and that they are now against when we correct their mistakes and when we pay their debts. For these reasons, these amendments should not be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11248	Thank you. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11249	The amendment was submitted to Article 9 by Zoran Krasic and Miljan Damjanovic, Mr Milicevic. We're just asking for the attitude to be deleted first. Why? Because construction, construction, adaptation and reconstruction of the airport complex and airport infrastructure are in the public interest, at least there are three laws so far. When it's erased, nothing gets lost. So nothing this member loses. But, well, it doesn't matter that much. We just wanted to draw attention to the fact that it is a matter of public interest and that if we were to ask ourselves, we have submitted a lot of these amendments to "be deleted", and when you reject these amendments and all that you have written remains, it is the second or third time that it exists in one of our laws, but we particularly care about this next amendment. We've been here so little titty moving, playing with you, that the main thing would be this amendment that follows, and it's about this amendment. What's this about? If you already have to go to a public-private partnership and to a concession, then only for the part where the partner invests funds in construction, construction and reconstruction, but by no means acquires an absolute right to manage the entire airport, given that these airports have some history and historical investment in their construction. So, what would you say, how much money – so much music. If the new concession is dedicated to the new airport runway, then take the influence of the runway in the distribution of profits, management, etc., not on the basis of the new runway – here is the whole airport, because we have such experiences with us. Why? Because it's a monopoly. As it started in Serbia, we will have a water line private, we will have the supply of electricity privately, the delivery of garbage, heating, cleaning. Well, it's not the point of what's going to happen in private, the point is that the state monopoly in terms of physical coercion is going to make people pay for it and that money goes to private people and strangers, and everyone's going to justify themselves in public interest. You know, the state doesn't have the money to intervene, local self-government doesn't have the money to invest, let's go into this private-public concept, etc. Slowly all the essential state functions, the state responsibility passes into private hands, so you will see how much water there will be, so you will see how much garbage will be taken out, etc. It's not water and garbage like bread, I want to buy it, I don't want to buy it. No, this has to. Why? The state guarantees. The state also guarantees that the stranger she entrusted with these jobs to do so. Whether he'll be a stranger, whether he'll be ours, whether he'll be a half-wit, it doesn't matter at this point. Here it's important to perform the most brutal deetatisation. The state, as a guarantee of general security for all citizens, leaves its eminent functions to the private, and you can imagine for yourself what a private in Serbia means. Whatever you call it, whether a tycoon, whether a criminal, whether this, or that. Now, that's the danger. Therefore, it does not require such a lex specialis unreasonable regulations, but it requires clear regulations and a clear responsibility of the state for everything that needs to work. Not only – we gave it, so it works, you see it works. No, and the price must be acceptable to the citizens. You're going to Europe? So give us European wages, and we'll all go to Europe. Then only a fool wouldn't go to Europe. Who wouldn't want to go to Europe if he had a European salary? Well, everybody wants to go. Here's the story of Europe, and the wages of what? What kind of pay? How are you going to pay these wages tomorrow, not tomorrow, in three, four, five, six years, when it all goes into private hands? You'll get into a situation where a private contractor will knock you out because you didn't pay for the garbage. Here, now we have these situations. It'll be like Cory Widowsky, sell the apartment, then pay the bill. But you will be held accountable. We warned you in time. And we warned these guys in time what could happen. Also, we've got most of it, we'll do it. Well, not slow, you have most people, who can slow it down for you? The people voted for you? Oh, he voted the people for you. You'll do it all. You can laugh with our amendments, you can rip them apart, it can be funny, I agree, but have you solved the problem? Now, that's the thing. That's why we're putting up with these amendments, to warn you. This way, I'm sure you won't solve the problem. That's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11250	Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojičić, Goran Ješić, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Maja Vidinović, Natasa Vukković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic and Veroljub Stevanović submitted to the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Glav IV, the name above the members and the 11th amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojičić, Goran Jesic, Gordana Comić, Balša Bozovic, Maja Vidinović, Natasa Vukković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic and Veroljub Stevanović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Nogo, Bosko Obradović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Marija Janjušević, Zoran Radojić, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11251	We really don't think the argument is in line with what we're saying, because the question here is, first of all, what is the public interest and how public interest is determined. If we have a law that we adopt under an emergency procedure that has not passed a public debate, if we have the law itself which provides that the conditions of the authorities or bodies responsible for the activities of the body of communication or energy will be applied based on the annual plans for the development of these networks in the territory of the Republic of Serbia in accordance with the law, etc. Look, it means where the public is involved, and it's about public interest. Public interest in Serbia seems to define all but the Serbian citizens themselves and the public themselves. It is not public interest what Aleksandar Vukic or one of his ministers or one of the directors of his companies or some private foreign concessionaire who came to Serbia with the intention of profiting and profiting here. So I really think that you should think about it one more time and vote, certainly, as the previous speaker said, you have a majority and you can vote and that the country is flat but there are some consequences behind your actions, behind what you're doing, certainly count on all of us to live in this country and in the future. In what condition the settlements around the airport are, there is sufficient indication of a radio light bordering the "Nikola Tesla" airport in Belgrade, because to go to the central municipality of Surcin, those people have to go 35km, go to New Belgrade, turn on the highway and go to the municipality. By the way, you couldn't get there 800 meters. Are you planning on shutting down that settlement completely or what? What is your plan with people who already live near the airport, because here it is crucial and this law is passed because of the "Nikola Tesla" airport. I think the citizens of Serbia and the public deserve to know what kind of public interest you're talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11252	Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11253	You got an explanation, but I'd like to explain. So this member of the Airport Management Act is fully in line with Article 130, which is an independent member of the Law on Planning and Construction, which is a material regulation for construction. So the fact that it's non-transparent, you can't see that in relation to some decisions, some other faces, that's not true. Secondly, several times we've said it, and I'm going to repeat 700 houses are excluded from the airport line, so it won't be torn down.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11254	Thank you. The National MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojičić, Goran Jesic, Gordana Comić, Balša Bozovic, Maja Vidinović, Natasa Vukkovic, Tomislav Žigmanov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic and Veroljub Stevanović together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Nogo, Bosko Obradović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Marija Janjušević, Zoran Radojić, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11255	It is precisely in line with the previous amendment, and this amendment refers to eradicating the said Article 12 with the same reasoning, with the same reasons, and we simply continue that discussion from a moment ago. The fact that one law says it will establish the Ministry does not mean that the Ministry can only determine public interest. I suppose there should be some greater social consensus for this public interest, because today the minister of traffic, Zorana Mihajlovic, and tomorrow, Alexander Vukic, may decide to be someone else, such as Vladimir Djukanovic, is as a total opposite of you, to be minister in that place. He can understand that public interest differently. It's a note and a note about the public interest somewhere. As for these 700 houses that you mention will be excluded, they are not controversial houses, but they are controversial conditions in which these people live, so the infrastructure that doesn't allow them to live properly. You know there are narrow streets, there's no public transport, there's no sewerage, and just local self-government cutting taxes like they're living in a downtown or in a wider downtown Belgrade. So their tax base is about 1,100 euros, which is really amazing for a settlement that has no basic conditions for life and that can't break through 800 meters of roads that would combine Radio Far with the parent municipality of Surcin and it's really amazing. Is there, for example, a public interest to recognize him in time so that you can do certain expropriations and make it simply the one way that you would connect these people living in that neighborhood to the community of origin, when you're talking about public interest? Or the public interest in Serbia is just some foreign investor who comes and gets eleven billion subsidies, so he gets all the benefits and connections he doesn't have to pay unlike a domestic businessman, because when he has something in the interest of being a public interest. Is that right?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11256	The word has been made by Minister Zorana Mihaylov.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11257	So all investors, both domestic and foreign, according to the law, have the first thing to do with subsidies if they hire people and invest in our economy. Second, of course, there must always be mutual interest, which is natural. Now, the public interest is exclusively governed by this law, it is not governed by Zoran or any other minister. So it's in accordance with the law. When we first talk about these houses, first of all, about those 700 houses, I believe you're absolutely right about all of this. Unfortunately, it is that they have chosen to build here and I think that local self-government must, in any case, together with those citizens, take care of what are called living conditions, which means these basic communal services. There's that other part of those houses at Auto-Comerca's, so that transmitter practically moves to the airport and won't have any other problems. Anyway, I agree with you that local self-government has to deal with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11258	The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11259	It is extremely interesting this Article 12 which speaks of who may be the user of expropriation and administrative transfer or incomplete expropriation. Namely, this Article 12, as it stands in it – the user of expropriation can be a legal person whose founder or majority owner is the Republic of Serbia, AP or local self-government units. We asked to wipe out this majority owner. In our opinion and interpretation, this article introduces the possibility of establishing a legal person where the majority owner will be the Republic of Serbia or the AP or units of local self-government, but the minority owner will be someone. This someone will, through participation in the establishment of a legal person, become the owner of exploited land or other goods, as defined by this member. We think this is one of the places that points to the possibility of corruption. By which criterion someone will receive land as a minority part of ownership in a legal person that is the owner of a particular land or property. Of course, the government has rejected our amendment by saying that the user of expropriation can only be a legal person, not its owners. I'm not a lawyer, but I think the owner of a legal person who uses some property in a colloquial dictionary is certainly the owner and has all the property of a legal person whose founder is. I'm interested, although the minister continues to argue, she did not convince me that she did not know who would be the future concessionist. I'm kind of more inclined to believe what the Prime Minister told us, which is that next year there will be a concession for the airport, he said it here in the budget debate, and he was also talking about the amounts we're going to get. Therefore, the budget itself will look even better at the end of 2017, with an even smaller deficit. All this, this kind of preparation says that you know exactly, that you know and who will be that minority owner. I'm only interested in which member of the SNS's main board who will be this minority partner in the whole business, who will build hotels or I don't know what to do with airports, and thus make an extra profit in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11260	The National MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojičić, Goran Jesic, Gordana Comić, Balša Bozovic, Maja Vidinović, Natasa Vukkovic, Tomislav Žigmanov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic and Veroljub Stevanović submitted the title above the members and the 13th amendment. The word is Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11261	Another member who is a direct illustration of normative optimism, unnecessary. So what defines Article 13, and why should it be deleted as well as all the members of this law? He speaks in the perimeter - a proposal for expropriation, administrative transfer and incomplete expropriation. In the first position, you say who can submit the proposal, which is otherwise defined by the law governing the expropriation, and in the second position that, following the submission of the proposal from the position, further proceedings are carried out in accordance with the law governing the expropriation. Why do you need this member in this law? To say there's an expropriation law that needs to be handled. That's the normative optimism. I don't mind having a strategy that will collect provisions from many laws in an attempt to make a spine lex specialis. We also had the original Lex specialis here, when the construction of the "Biograda on Water" was declared a public interest. Commercial dwellings, it remains a disgrace on everyone's cheeks - I am for, extraordinaryly, but here are the MPs getting – what is wrong with "Belgrade on Water"? It is said here in Vojvodina – it has everything that is missing. So, here in order for this to not be a real law instead of a Lex specialist, you introduce who can submit a proposal for expropriation and what happens next with that proposal. The reasons for our opposition are that we do not feel that it is necessary in this law, where you have, we have already discussed here, the attitudes that you cannot explain to me, where you have listed in the perimeter how the status of an operator is obtained which is not in the member and that you now have in Article 13. who submits the proposal and what happens next with that proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11262	According to the amendment, the word has been given by MP Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11263	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I might understand, and I don't really understand this. I would perhaps understand the amendment's promoter, he says – erasing is proposed for the reason it is a potential source of corruption. He's probably saying it from his own experience. I might accept that there is no former president of the Indji municipality, who has earned about seven apartments with a salary of 700 euros, including an apartment in Vienna, a closed pool, a penthouse, without any private business, with a salary of 700 euros. That's why this amendment is unacceptable to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11264	The word has a folk MP Gordana Komic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11265	I have a complete understanding for all who do not have the strength to understand anything and who think completely, the chairman listened carefully, naturally to explain here that he did not accept the amendment because he was signed by one of the MPs. If there was order, as there was no reason, if there were knowledge like there was no honor, then it would be understood how much it was said in the hall for the National Assembly's session is inadmissible. Then you'd understand how someone looks at the world out of their eyes and thinks they're all the same. Well, we're not. So I was told here that I signed the amendment because I know what corruption is. If there were any intention of further discussion, of course I would act on what it says, the rule of law, when anyone thinks that it can be overshadowed by prosaclysm, ignorance, and haughtiness. Well, he can't. Don't spread your hands. You're having consequences for what you're saying. What's ugly doesn't matter, but it's, how do I tell you, illegal. When you take away my mandate at the session at which you will vote to remove the immunity of MP Gordani Komic, then you can challenge the amendment that I signed, which was brought in on the basis of your finding that there are criminal acts of corruption in my actions. So far, all you have to do is be ashamed of yourself, very much. But if we knew what a shame was, we wouldn't have had all this happening to us, what's going on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11266	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11267	I tried to understand, but I didn't understand anything, but I tried. I have experience. It says here - erasure is proposed for the reason it represents a potential source of corruption. That's an explanation. Among the signatories is the president of the Indji municipality, a man. For this reason, I have disputed the right to accept this amendment, and that sentence -- it has everything that is missing, it has just been created in India, right here in this president of the Indji municipality, because everything is missing. We got into politics together. I still live in a parenting house, at the end of the village, in the last street, in the last populated house. Now it turns out I'm the guy who bought seven apartments, bought an apartment in Vienna, a closed pool. That's why I asked for this amendment to be rejected, not because of the lady, because of the gentleman who was the president of the Indji municipality and who had won and who had everything that was missing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11268	By amendment, MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11269	Thank you. There are no answers to the questions I've asked why it's such normative optimism, what are we hiding from, who are we hiding from, and why? If anyone thinks that with any pride of ignorance and prosthesis, they're going to hide that they're writing something here that's extra as a member, then it's in error. Can you pass the law without any change? You haven't already. So he did not enter this congregation one more law, and he came out of the congregation in the form in which he entered. It is the nature of the Assembly, to make amendments and to change members of the law. You've already changed some. It is my duty to warn you that together with this law we will have problems in application, for two reasons. The first is normative optimism, the second is that it represents the spine version of the lex specialis already written for "Belgrade on Water". It's not in our interest to have a problem. You have your motives why you think that's the way it should be. It is our job to talk about these motives and try to warn the problems that will await us when this law is to be applied. That's all.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11270	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11271	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am advocating Article 106 and Article 107, in particular Article 107, which speaks first of all about the dignity of the National Assembly. Mr. Chairman, I'm not going to insist on voting on this, but for the second time, with a clear allusion to me, the previous speaker has spoken of prosagrams, so I ask you to take a transcript of today's performances, take a transcript of the stenograms in the last year of this session, take a transcript of the stenogram from all the convocations, and find a prosagram, and a swear that I may have told someone I might have told the trash, cattle, primate, apes, etc., not to say where all of us are being bullied, etc. If you find that in my speeches, I'll agree to let someone of my speech qualify as a prosaclysm. So I ask you, in the future, that since your colleague has often applied various measures in the councils in which she chaired, she has applied various measures towards the opposition MPs, I do not ask you to apply such a measure to the lady, but I ask you in the future to warn if there is no protest from these benches, unless there are no simple words, if there is no swearing, if there is only a simple dictionary one, that the people understand me, please warn my colleagues and dear colleague that in the future she does not sew that epithet to me, because I did not deserve it with her speech, and we could from these stenograms, from the transcripts to see what kind of curses we have experienced from that part of the hall, what we have experienced and what reminders the chairmans have to make in that direction. So I ask you to protect me in a certain way for qualifications prosaclysm, when he does not exist, to be properly at least a cautioned colleague to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11272	Thank you. From what I understand from your statement, you don't want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged violation of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. The word has a folk MP Katarina Rakic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11273	Thank you, Your Honor. I haven't heard from you before, although I've had a lot of reasons, but I think it's already quite so much for me and my colleagues to hate listening to a lecture from some who couldn't even write an explanation for it. Okay, well, if I think it's bad, that it's wrong, and I want it erased, then at least I know what I want it to say, I want to at least make a suggestion, explain how I want it, or this time -- well, now I don't want it any way I want it to, I don't want it to be anything. But what I don't want and what I certainly don't want is that none of my colleagues who really have a lot to do with these empty lines that you're surrounded by right now are going to go back to the time that you decided what it would be and what it would look like. To ruin a company like JAT, it really should have been done by a wizard. Now you're giving us sermons on all the amendments in a way that you want to erase something that we've done in two years, and you've ruined something that's been created for years. Indeed, your amendments are bad, your reasoning is bad. We hate to listen to your sermons, and we really won't, we're going to reject your amendments, and we're going to accept good laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11274	Right to replica, authorised DS representative, MP Gordana Comic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11275	I don't hate it. Until we learn that we can't hate to listen to someone when they say what's different from ours, then they'll start to develop. As we sit here determined that our language of insult and disdain is the only way to communicate, we give the right to talk about the death of dialogue and the death of development in society. I don't hate listening to anyone. The job of the MP is to listen to everyone's opinion. If we just put a little effort into really listening to the others and not being hated, so nobody hates us, who knows what good can happen in this room. There's one thing I'm sure he can do. There can be a real beginning of dialogue on various topics, the beginning of the exchange of really arguments, the beginning of conversations about what is said, not who is talking, because that's why congregations exist. I have a lot of understanding for both strong language and political folklore. I even have an understanding of prosaclysms, they always try to overshadow the fear of arguments, of facts and of what reality is. Listen to someone hateful isn't nice to say in the O.R. Because they deny the essence of the message of the Messenger of the people. It's our job to listen and hear. Why? Because when we start the process in this room without being hateful, we listen and hear each other, then those who look at us rightly say, "Here, these are spoken out of my interest."
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11276	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. According to the amendment, MP Milimir Vujadinovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11277	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister with his associates, of course I will propose that the amendment be rejected, primarily because of the senselessness of his own reasoning, beware, two words – delete. Of course, we don't hate to listen to any proposal coming from either the post or the opposition. We showed it. But if we're already talking about citizens who are watching this, it's very clear who hates to listen to any proposal coming from this side at all. I'm glad the representatives of the opposition finally started listening to us. Citizens have had the opportunity to make sure in the last few months that they turned their backs on us and walked out of the hall when the representatives of the citizens made their views, suggestions, when they brought up what the citizens chose them for. Finally, at least one advance in the opposition, listen to us and sit in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11278	The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Nogo, Bosko Obradović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Marija Janjušević, Zoran Radojić, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. The word is a folk letter by Marija Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11279	Thank you, Chairman. This is actually about a series of members of this bill that mentions expropriation. Our amendments to these several members had almost identical reasons, I admit, and that was also the reason for the promoters, which is why they are not acceptable. When it comes to expropriation, it is an extremely sensitive question, even when there is no disputed point, there is a great danger of abuse and that everything is not resolved in the most just way possible. Why suspicion? For example, we could have a proposal to amend the Air Traffic Act, and thus we would have one legal and logically rounded continent, not that there is now a confusion with many laws to apply in the event of a concession, and so in Article 13, we first talk about that the authorities of the administration and units of local self-government on whose territory are immobilities, which are the subject of expropriation, will decide on it, and then we return after the submission of the proposal under Article 1 – the further procedure is carried out in accordance with the law governing the expropriation. In the very explanation, the proponent also calls for a law that regulates planning and construction. So, we've got another lex specialise in trying. I heard the minister well when she said she was working without emotion, and I believe that, especially I remember that from the cases where we had basilica poisoning, oak cutting, southern flow, the sinking of the Gracanica monastery, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11280	The National MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojičić, Goran Jesic, Gordana Comić, Balša Bozovic, Maja Vidinović, Natasa Vukkovic, Tomislav Žigmanov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic and Veroljub Stevanović submitted the title above the members and the 14th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Srdjan Nogo, Bosko Obradović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Marija Janjušević, Zoran Radojić, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic together submitted to the 14th amendment. The word is made by MP Dragan Vesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11281	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Madam Minister, another of the little series of amendments that suggest that all these questions related to expropriation be deleted and regulated in a way that will be deleted by members. In your explanation, you've made it transparent, public. That may seem to you, and we have the right to not seem to be. Yes, it is, we ask the question – why is this done urgently, because the law is passed by emergency procedure? It is often in the Serbian people – what is fast, sometimes it is short. Maybe we didn't have to do it that way, but maybe we would understand what you're telling us is transparent, and it's not for us. Dear colleagues don't have to be angry when we submit an amendment to delete a member of the law, because if we don't see that we can whiten a wall made of mud and we don't know that we can't make a carving out of rotten wood, we have to suggest that it be erased. We have some constructive advice. Just now, Madam Minister, you mentioned investing in the airport in Nis. Do you know that when you go from Belgrade to Nis, there is no board for Nis airport anywhere from the Nais payment ramp? Check it out, put it on. I've had my own problems. My friends had problems. That's constructive advice. The second question, you mentioned the Shipman airport again, I'm afraid what you said would be open in a few months will not be true, because I received a different explanation from Mr. Ilic on the board. One of you didn't tell me the same thing, but let's not start that topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11282	Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11283	We're in the process, as I said, of signing a contract with the Department of Defense. I hope it will still be in the first half of 2017. Otherwise, today, right now, the Nish data, 115,000 passengers, at the airport. And as for the table, it will be.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11284	On behalf of Chapter 5 and Article 15 of the amendment, the MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojičić, Goran Ješić, Gordana Comić, Balša Bozovic, Maja Vidinović, Natasa Vukković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic and Veroljub Stevanović submitted together. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11285	Member of the 15th financing of the construction of the airport complex and airport infrastructure. So here are the possible sources of funding from airport operators, the budget of the Republic of Serbia, private partner funds, loans, donations, gifts and other sources of funding. We were just discussing this and it is true that before the entry of this law into the procedure and debate of the National Assembly, a possible concession was announced, from the highest place, the Prime Minister announced a possible concession, even talking about the possible amount of funds needed. We also talked about the profit of the "Nikola Tesla" airport at 25m to 30m euros level and when we are here on funding, we are asking one logical question, what is the interest of the Republic of Serbia to enter these arrangements, with this assumed level of 300m euros in concessions for the "Nikola Tesla" airport, when estimates that profits, even with such operations, would amount to about 600m to 700m euros in those 25 or 30 years. Where is the interest of the Republic of Serbia and Serbian citizens? Once again, I ask the question of what is the interest of the concessionaires, the quick return of funds, the funds invested and the way that can bring the drop in quality, but also the increase in the price of services at the airport that would be dealt with in this way. I think it's really questions that didn't get answers here, and it would be good if we got this information. Although you spoke of transparency and that no one was seen as a possible partner, we simply heard it from the prime minister before the debate began.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11286	Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11287	Neither the Prime Minister spoke of any appointed partner for a moment, but just as you said at first, he said a possible concession. And when there's a possibility, we'll see, we'll talk, compared to all the data we have, projections in Serbia, in the region, etc. We'll see what's best for the airport. If we're talking about the concession, the state remains the owner, there's not just a one-time payment, there's an annual fee, etc. Why should we even think about some kind of further investment in airport investments? Because they're needed if we really want to be the first in the region, we're the third in the region now. Are we going to decide? Yeah, and it'll be public. I don't know that someone right now, maybe you really know the name of some future concessionary, or you know how government decisions will be made. I don't know. I know it's our job to create conditions, to have the opportunity to do something like that, to look at all that, so based on studies and everything that gives us a review, a very important review, based on which, eventually, we're going to make a decision about how we're going to invest in an airport, from which resources, from which sources, for how many years, what is it going to look like? It's really very early right now. We can, this is a topic that can be talked about a lot, and in the debate on this law, okay, but I can't give you answers that the Serbian government hasn't even moved to talk about yet. Once again, it is our obligation to create conditions for such a possibility to exist, and it will certainly be transparent on the basis of a public call.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11288	Thank you. By amendment, MP Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11289	I'm using the MP's time group. Here's why we're asking that. We had experience with a private-public partnership, most famous in Serbia, which passed through this Assembly, the "Belgrade on Water" project. Three billion euros in investments were announced for a very short period. In the end, we got something that had nothing to do with that kind of announcement. Now again, we have announcements about concessions, announcements announced by this law, which we decide without really accurate information. This openness of the whole process is necessary, you were talking about transparency, which is why we are opening this topic. We will agree that there have been completely different announcements of the project "Belgrade on Water", and if we compare these announcements to what we are listening to now, we really have reason to ask and expect answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11290	According to the amendment, there is a National MP Katarina Rakic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11291	Thank you. This amendment specifically proposes eradicating the financing of construction, construction, adaptation, reconstruction of the airport complex and airport infrastructure, providing various resources. Which means they're looking to erase progress in any kind of infrastructure and airport. That's exactly what we don't want. We want the airport and everything else in Serbia to develop. That's why I think what's wrong here is a suggestion to really erase something like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11292	The 15th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11293	As the predecessor said, this member speaks of financing the construction of an airport complex and airport infrastructure. He then cites funding sources and then there is a key word for non-transparency and corruption in Serbia, extremely. Exceptional appropriations referred to in point 2 of Article 1(2), which are appropriations from the budget, can be allocated and then three positions are developed in which incentives will be used in the event of concessions being granted. You have a plan, maybe it wasn't discussed in the government, but I'm sure some cabinets have discussed and agreed who will be a concessionist and how conditions will be created for his work in the future. So it's extraordinary. Why the law if it stands here is exceptional, according to rules that will be adopted by the government, according to the final stance. There's corruption, there's intransparency, it's the problem of all the laws that come here in the term of this government, what's left for the government to decide, without the clear criteria that are known to the public. As much as you, Deputy Prime Minister, explain to us that it will be different to tell you that it will not. Your colleague, from the government of the previous one, was hiding the "Smederevo Iron Management Treaty" from the public for a year, paying the fines because he broke the law, again with the citizens' budget. He didn't want to tell us how highly expert, best management in the world was hired by the Iron Management Government. And we don't even know it today. But we do know the result of the management of the leadership, 145m euros in debt in 2015. That's why the problem with your laws is there's no transparency in your work. You want us to trust you, we don't trust you. There's no need to stand these views extremely, so beyond that, the government is going to do this, the government is going to do this. That's not transparent. He can't stand the word out of the law. So what's the predetermining and predetermining of the terms and rules of everything, what are the laws if the word can stand exceptional? That means there's no law. And that's the problem with this whole law. It's a lex specialis that you hide and fill it with certain attitudes, copying it from other laws, to make it look like a law. He could've had three members, where it says we're giving a concession to that and that firm. Since you're not going to say that, you've written a law of about 30 members and we're now trying to solve a rebus called the firm that you've intended for the “Nikola Tesla” concession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11294	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11295	You don't ask, you draw conclusions, you make judgments. You've already said that – it's agreed in some cabinets, etc. I suppose that was agreed in your time in your party president's office. After all, we've had examples, we can talk about these examples. We can talk about examples of how you privatized NIS, why not. It was at the time of Tadic, as far as I know, and there was no public call or tender, there was nothing. That's what the president of your party signed and worked on. This isn't the case. We chose a counselor in public first. All the studies the counselor does, all the data he does, will be publicly available. Every kind of decision we make will be known. And you know how, by the way, since you're mentioning the Ironstone of Smeder, I don't know what the alternative is to you? Was it an alternative for you to lock her up? I don't think we should have locked her up. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11296	Thank you. Mr. Djurisic, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11297	Maybe I'm wrong, maybe it wasn't the decision you made in the cabinets, but you were downstairs for dinner at the Geozoda or wherever you're going, in that building, which you gave to your partners, for 30 years to use. So, like the story of "Belgrade on Water" -- billions, I don't know, and then we got 20 million foreign partner investments and I don't know how many tens of millions of loans. So, some decision has been made, I don't know if you know it, maybe you don't know it, maybe that's why you're here today to defend this law, which you'd say -- past the polygraph, you'd see that you really don't know it, and maybe you don't know it, but whoever runs this country certainly knows. When you talk about some of these past times, you're talking about an agreement about selling NIS. He was here in parliament, adopted by the Parliament. Are you going to bring the contract here to parliament, let's see? I doubt it. But here, we'll see what happens next. I don't see that political logic that SNS has been using here for five years in all situations – you've been doing the same thing, so now we can. I don't see how you think that helps improve Serbia's citizens? If we were doing something we shouldn't have done, I guess you shouldn't have done it, not say it – you've done it one way or the other, we can do it now. In doing so, not telling the truth. Not telling the truth, you're using an example that's completely the opposite of everything you're doing today, and putting responsibility on the then president of the Republic, Boris Tadic, who didn't have most in the government at the time, when this agreement was negotiated, but was negotiated by the government in which the Democratic Party did not participate, so it got involved at some point. But it was brought here in the end, with the votes of everyone in the Assembly. And what I want to tell you about Jellyzara, of course it shouldn't have been closed, but should it have been done in such a way as to make 145m euros in debt? In 2012, that debt was 20 million, 2013 was 35 million and then dramatically growing. That's what this is about. Who's responsible for such a bad business? It's not about whether or not it was supposed to be, but what was the deal with such bad results? Because obviously there was a conscious intention to get some money out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11298	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11299	First of all, parliament has adopted an agreement, as it always adopts all agreements. The contract wasn't here. Secondly, we're just doing the same thing Tadic did. And he's just been working on making sales in the cabinets, from NIS and beyond. It's just a matter of work. Or at the time when Sartid was sold, as sold and what happened, and how much debt was ever Sartida at the time the Americans retreated, etc., etc. So far from it. What this law should allow is for things to be public. Whether you believe it or not, in some period ahead of us, in some months ahead of us, when we make a decision about what and how much we invest and how much it takes to invest in Nicole Tesla Airport, it will be public and we will be able to talk about whether it's that kind of investment, whether we should invest, or elsewhere, you will be able to always say and help things and make a better decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11300	The 15th Amendment was submitted by the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications. I ask the Minister to plead, since the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives felt that the amendment was in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11301	I agree with the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11302	The amendment is accepted. Thank you. On Chapter 6, the name above the members and Article 16 of the amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the Democratic Party Group. Do you want a word? The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11303	The amendment is to a member whose scope is the adoption of a national programme, and the member reads: "To ensure conditions for long-term development and improvement of Serbia's airport, a national development programme is adopted in the Republic of Serbia, in the following text – a national programme. “ The national programme is being adopted for a period of five years, in a second position, and the national programme brings the government, on a proposal from the ministry responsible for traffic affairs. The second member is the one who discusses the implementation of the national programme. What's my question is, what are you going to write in the national program? Is this the document where you tell us about the concession plan? Before you say it, it'll all be public. This national programme will not be in the Assembly, it is a government document, as well as some other strategies and I am not against it. I think a number of strategies and programs should be in the government's jurisdiction, and the Assembly is just reporting. And what is this long-term development of five years? So what's your short-term development? High school? A month and a half? A year? You have now said – The concession agreement will have insight into the Assembly. It doesn't say here in the law. If your claim is that the Assembly will have a debate on the concession agreement, it's brand-new to me. Or did I not understand you well in response to any future concession agreement? But these three attitudes show you why this is "kitch lex specialis" compared to the real "lex specialis" we had for "Belgrade on Water". So, just to say that long-term development and promotion are brought to five years, what is your short term?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11304	The minister has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11305	When it's said to be valid for five years, it's not thought that the national programme will be done for just five years, but it's normal and if you make a strategic, firstly, that national programme should contain everything about all the airports that we have, therefore, a vision of how they should develop, so we expect 10 or 15 years. It's normal and it can happen that in those five years there may be some change, there's something going on in the region, everywhere we have to change the national program. In that sense, we change it and we have the right to check it every time, to control it once again for five years. What you said about strategies not being public, that's not true. Every strategy we've come up with is now being prepared. We're in a traffic development strategy program. So it's completely public. We will also have discussions about it and this national programme will be public and you will be able to read it and watch it and, ultimately, when we have a public debate, you will certainly be able to make your contribution and your view of it, so I disagree. I'm sorry, you're wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11306	The word is Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11307	I understand that you have an idea of this law, but your idea does not appear in the terms of this law. Here writes the second attitude – the national programme is brought in for a period of five years. Dot. Do you understand that I cannot communicate with your ideas, which I support? So that's all you represent as a picture, that looks good, but that doesn't say here. It says here in the first position - long term, and then it says it's brought for a period of five years. Those two can't be in the same article unless we agree it's five years long, and we agree it's not. When I spoke about the public, I said that I felt that strategies should be in the executive power. One good one doesn't think that the education development strategy should be in the government and I'm staying in the minority, but I think that the long-term national development programme should be in the government, but don't then write, as it says in these members, that's five years. No government, no minister prevents a strategy from changing when anyone wants to. It is in your hands, as it is in your hands, the MPs, the law. Whatever we want, we can change whenever we want. (Zoran Krasic, from the place: If you have a majority. If you have a majority, the MPs do, with the right. It's understood that you have a majority. You can't change if you don't have most. That problem will be common, it won't be yours, he won't get rid of me, so if we were kids, I told you, I told you. That's not the point, the thing is that we all know what it says here and that I have a duty to ask, why are you in long-term development, the national development program we're doing for five years? Nothing more. I'm not asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11308	National MPs Gorica Gajic, Milan Lapčević and Dejan Sulkic together submitted the 16th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. On behalf of the above members and of the 17th amendment, the MPs of the Democratic Party group together submitted. Does anyone want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. National MPs Gorica Gajic, Milan Lapčević and Dejan Šulkić together, together with Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Alexic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic, submitted to the 17th amendment. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11309	Thank you. Well, both this Article 17 and these two attitudes that we have proposed to delete are obviously there to, we say, complete this law to make it look rich and now say something in this position 2. says that operational operations in the process of implementing this famous national programme are carried out by the company "Serbia Airport" d.o.o. Belgrade. This is how it works, further elaborates what and what measures should be taken, the possibility of a change and an act establishing an "Serbian airport" company, but the fact is that this company, I think, was founded only last year, or this year, is very nearly established and I think there are two employees. So, in this law, for one big job, doing something that we call a national program, we're transferring it to operate a company that has two employees. I think it's about knowing in advance what's going to happen and how it's going to be, that there's a mask here, that there's supposed to be this company right now. Perhaps it will then get some additional employees, certainly all of them will be SNS, and some will work on implementing the national plan, and most of it will not, but will receive salaries and do these bot jobs. We therefore consider it necessary to delete these two positions, because we believe that the law cannot assign jurisdiction to a company established for other purposes and that it cannot apply the law to the assessment of the founders whether or not to amend the founding act. So many open questions are left so defined by Articles 2 and 3.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11310	On chapter VII, the name above the members and Article 18 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Do you want a word? The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11311	Yes, this is about a member who defines what is the subject of the concession, as proposed by this law. They repeat the position I expressed at the outset, which is the position of the Democratic Party's parliamentary club, related to the general situation in public enterprises and the way that the problem would be solved, primarily infrastructure and operations. The proposal is and the essence of the idea is to separate infrastructure and operations. On the one hand, the infrastructure, in which the state, according to us, must have a control package of actions, so no less than 51%. It is possible and it is desirable, of course, to find investors who would be willing and confident in the state to invest in that part of the infrastructure, but I think it is important primarily because of the incentives and the match and better conditions, above all for the citizens of Serbia, and that is the responsibility of the state. On the other hand, the subject of the concession certainly means that catering facilities, security and many other segments mentioned in this article, and of course we are not against it, that the market economy and the attraction of investors that would invest in this part, but with a clear view that the state must indeed have a control package of actions over key infrastructure when it comes to runways, when it comes to the electricity network, because that is how we protect the users, which is the citizens of Serbia. So, if a concessionaire comes in who will have absolute control over the entire infrastructure, of course, will direct in accordance with their interests and give the most favourable conditions, perhaps to one airline, which means that it will have a monopoly over this market, which means that it will allow the price of tickets to be raised and the poorer quality of services. That's why we're in this position.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11312	The MPs Gorica Gajic, Milan Lapčević and Dejan Šulkic together submitted to the title of Glava VII and Article 17 of the amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Zoran Krasic, Milorad Mircic, together submitted the 18th amendment. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11313	To pick up where I left off, with the last amendment. I think this is the most important thing in this bill. No matter what our objections and suggestions we made for the other members of the bill. I'm going to make a small introduction, once the most correct investment from abroad, so-called. Joint investment. This investment is calculated and if this is an investment of some 40% in a company, then 40% participates in action, management, etc. And at the end of the year, if there's a profit, it divides in that proportion. It's the most honest and purest form, if you can tell, of those so-called. foreign investments. There are bad experiences in our environment with concessions for existing airports, and I think these experiences point to some of the appetites that exist in some people who are willing to get into this business and want to achieve the maximum monopoly. With this amendment, we wanted to draw attention to being that principle for that part of the job at the airport that you're investing in, in that part, you need to participate in management and get some profit. There's a math that can calculate that concession fee and everything else. We wanted first of all to promote that principle that your investment in relation to existing infrastructure and what it should look like should be some kind of mathematics that forced the government to decide, in the end, on concessions, potential partners, to know that there has to be a clean bill policy here, not some discount. We don't have much luck with concessions. I remember in my time, 10 years ago, there was one concession announcement for some highway, the Democrats came to power, they got it all wrinkled up because they found some big crime, so the concession agreement wasn't even published. I think it's past concession time. Simply, the time has passed for concessions and should be careful not to make a mistake, as concessions according to their duration may also cause more adverse consequences during that period.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11314	On behalf of the above members and of the 19th Amendment, the MPs of the DS Group together submitted. Do you want a word? No, I don't. ) Representatives Gorica Gajic, Milan Lapčević and Dejan Šulkic together submitted the 19th amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) Parliamentarians Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic together submitted the 19th amendment. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11315	Thank you. To be honest, we have proposed this amendment to reverse logic. We wanted to see how the government reacts when we do what she did with this bill. We have suggested that the law be extended and that certain provisions contained in Article 112 be copied practically in this attitude. Air traffic law. As we have criticised the fact that in a number of members or the prescribed views of other laws, or certain attitudes have been added, the whole members who are here just to complete this law, we wanted to test the promoter a little bit, to see how he reacts when we move forward with their intention to make this law look as serious as possible. We suggested adding one position, one sentence already in the Air Traffic Act, and the government refused. I think the only question of the government's consistency is how to write such laws. So the whole law was supposed to hide that it was a "lex specialist". They also added, copied from the Air Traffic Act various attitudes. Now, here, when we suggested that something be copied, which is based on the government's logic that this law should be a place where various things are found and in other laws, the government didn't accept it. Obviously because it comes from this side, by the opposition amendment promoter and the message that we are not capable enough, we cannot do so within less than six days, while the debate on the budget takes place, prepare and write amendments to these laws. We think it's one bad policy in general. Here, and now as we discuss here, the majority of our colleagues sit and analyze the laws that are likely to come to the debate here in the Assembly the other day, and who entered the parliamentary procedure yesterday, which we now need to look at what is going on, to write some amendments and we have a deadline of one, two, three days for all of them, and here we are passing laws that need to do a job that needs Serbia to bring in several hundred million euros. We don't have a chance to analyze everything...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11316	I'll just return you to the amendment after you warned me this morning.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11317	Yes, but you released it this morning and thus created a framework so that we could step outside the amendment itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11318	It's not exactly like that, but say whatever you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11319	Here, I've been waiting for you to interrupt me, and it's good that you interrupted me, to see that you don't have the same archaic. So when a colleague talks about our amendment, about a member...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11320	No aggression. I let go for four and a half hours, but I gave this back to you this morning...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11321	For an amendment to Article 1, he talks about the airport in Subotica and talks for minutes and minutes, and you don't react.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11322	Ambassador, would you be so kind as to make a little sense of humor?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11323	I'm extremely funny, as you know, and I have no problem with that. So, the government is inconsistencies, putting together laws from the hills -- from the valley, it wants to hide what it is, and the intention is to make the job easier for a concertary. We'll find out the name and name of that concessionary, maybe until the end of this session if we can solve this rebus. If not, as the Minister said, we'll find out very quickly, transparently. I doubt it. It's never happened before, so I don't think it's gonna happen in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11324	I don't mind you wasting your time on whatever you want, but I'm just returning for this morning, nothing else. On behalf of the above members and Article 20 of the amendment, the MPs of the DS Group together submitted. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11325	This is about the content of the Airport Management Contract and defining the point that the contract is to be contained. Therefore, the obligation of the concessionaires and the duration of the contract, the obligation of the concessionr, the adjustment of the issues concerned, the conditions of the handover, etc. Here, we are now talking about this law, we are talking about this article, and we are talking about the transparency of the process, the necessary transparency of the procedure, and that's exactly what this member is talking about. We have already heard some of the most important elements of this contract before entering this congregation hall. We have heard that some 300 million are expected and that this value is about 300m euros. We've heard that it's probably going to be 25 or 35 years, as far as it's concerned, and that's certainly what our remark is. We expect this procedure to really be open, transparent and to get much better conditions than what we heard in the announcement of the Prime Minister. So, we've been listening to a lot of these promises, and that's why we're suspicious about this law, and that's why we're submitting these amendments, and that's what you signed as a minister, that's the Treaty on "Belgrade on Water". So, the private-public partnership announced as the largest project of the century in Serbia, three billion euros in investment, and later we got, not knowing what kind of structure will be owned by the entire project where the foreign private partner gets over 60%, of course twice as much, with the disproportionately larger, obviously necessary investments by Serbia in the whole project. This is something that has certainly led us and I am asking a question in this sense – how do you explain that we have received an announcement of the total value of this concession agreement on the "Nikola Tesla" airport and that we define this article in what way the entire process will be carried out transparently?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11326	The People's Messenger Blaža Knezevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11327	Thank you, Chairman. It is amazing that one parliamentary group, from the beginning, I have been following the debate carefully, has problems and there are doubts about everything, as they say, about themselves, about the grudges and suspicions of corrupt elements. They say, of course, that it goes first and foremost, and I can't figure out where all this hysteria comes from and where all these attacks and criticisms are coming from for all that's good and what's done first in this country to Serbia. I can see that some of this is very small or almost in no way understood. It's just so beautifully written this bill, but I don't think they understand it. I'd try to explain it a little differently. When you take the highway to Belgrade-Romanian crossroads at night and look a little into the sky, the only thing that lights during the rule of these across the street were stars, and that was when it was clear. On today, when you take the Belgrade-Roman Crossway highway, you will see a minimum of 10 planes taking off, landing or going round waiting to land at the "Nikola Tesla" Airport. So much for the work of their government and the work of the current government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11328	Together, Gorica Gajic, Milan Lapčević and Dejan Šulkic brought together the 20th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was brought by MP Zoran Zivkovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11329	Thank you. I'll use those five minutes. This is one of the 60 amendments that's been accepted and I should be happy about that. I can say, yes, of course, that eternal struggle of mine for the purity of Serbian language has been accepted here and I am glad that, if not in the first step, then in the second step, the Government has the understanding of the Serbian language. But I have to tell you again that you made a mistake. In this opinion sent by the Government writes – the government proposes to the National Assembly to accept amendments to the MPs, and then there is only one. So, to correct it, next time to write – to accept the amendment of MP Zoran Zivkovic, not to spend only this temperate that you spend. That's one, let's say, a funny part of the story. Of course I'm not happy. I haven't submitted a lot of amendments to this law. With all due respect, colleagues from the DS who used one of my manners to wipe out the whole law if I don't think it's right, I think it's perfectly correct. It is a way that one political option, one parliamentary group says it disagrees with that law, and finds time in the restrictive Rules of Procedure to explain why it disagrees. It's perfectly normal and it's kind of parliamentaryism. I've made a few amendments, two only, and one's accepted, in the belief that the concession is a good thing at all. Privatisation is a good thing and concession is a good thing if done well. It's all there is to it. We have a mass of demagogue debates from the beginning of privatisation to the day of today, from somewhere there in 2001 to today, that it's a robbery, that it's a crime, that it's destroyed the material basis of the state, of the citizens, that everyone's been robbed, that there's a lot more of this, less of what's good. That's true, but not because of privatisation as such, because of the concept of privatisation and necessity, and thus the concessions, that it happened, but because there are many examples of criminalizing these good things. That's why I let the Serbian government pass this law. I had objections without that amendment. Of course, he would be voted by those across the street, as his colleague said, but at a time when you were in power for the first time, NATO planes flew and bombed Serbia, which had previously been under sanctions for 10 years, so don't forget that too, but that's not the topic today. The theme is that if, let the law go, I have objections that it's too much, too complicated, that it's a collage or a mosaic of some other law. All these objections have grounds, but I also understand the need to pass one law that would specifically define this area. In the principle debate, I asked the Minister – do you know who will take concessions? They haven't told us yet. You were the deputy director, if I'm not mistaken, or chairman of the board of directors, or advisor at the airport, so no doubt you know that area. If not yet known, it will be very interesting in that ad, the tender, as it will already be called, by calling concessionaries, it would be good to define many things that in this law, regardless of what is excessive, are not properly solved. I think it's better to give concessions, but rights in the right way than to keep the airport in state property. It is much more demagogue and more useful now to say – we give nothing, everything is stolen, foreigners, domestic tycoons. It's not true. There's no public company that works with profits. It doesn't exist. It's bookkeeping. There is no great success in Belgrade's airport. He would have been much more successful if he were in private hands, and of course the state should have its own compensation for giving someone the right to make a profit. It can be done without the state being protected, not by someone giving advances to 200, 300 million or as many as 20, 30 years of concession, but by making a contract in a concession where the state takes 50% of the profit, which is determined each year and then we have no problem with that. It is certain that the private owner, any airport, anything that can be privatized will be more business than the state does. In each public company, we have between 10 and 50% of the surplus employees and it was not the social role of these public enterprises to hire poor people. No, it was an exorcism of party personnel, from those who once glued posters, they're now called bots, because the posters are different small, but of course it didn't start this power, so it's clear as well. But she didn't do anything to change it any better. On the contrary, it's raised to an even worse level and we have examples of it every day. In private, if most of the economy is privatised in the right way, not from criminals, but from a company with a renaissance, which has its rating, the status in Europe, the region, in the world, it can't happen. No one like a private employee will hire an incompetent relative, let alone an incompetent party associate. No, maybe give him some help, social security, maybe give him money on loan so he can start some business but put it on him, keep it on his back, it won't be safe. Secondly, when it's private property, then the state only has one job, to chase taxes, not to watch who's next of kin, who's got a job, who's who hired whom, who brought whom, to follow what family lines are in public enterprises, to those jokes that there's no eroticity in public enterprises at all, because they'd be incest, they're all related. There are two, three families in these companies of 10, 15,000 people. So a good concession should be made. Good privatisation should be done. The condition is for the government to be fair, and no law, nor this one, will prevent those who play with state, national property from being sent to prison.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11330	Thank you. On Article 20 of the amendment, the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications submitted. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I beg the Minister to state whether he accepts the amendment
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11331	I'll take it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11332	The amendment is accepted. The 20th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11333	What's good, if something good can be found in this law is this member talking about the content of a management contract. At the end of the line, it is good that the bill promoter put this point 5 at which we intervened to establish the working legal status of persons employed by the previous airport operator at the time of the conclusion of the concession contract as part of the contract. We have proposed to go one step further, to prevent future concessionaires from firing workers. This, of course, may have been unrealistic to expect because, of course, if the concessionaire comes with the real intention of developing the job, he should also give open hands to organise the job as he thinks it best to develop this job, but we wanted to point out that, unfortunately, in the debate on this amendment, it has been the case so far that concessions that were not much, but above all privatisation, were fired by many employees or transferred, as is the case for the transformation of JAT to Er Serbia, were transferred to resolving their status of severance and everything to the budget and to the account of Serbian citizens. Then the real cost of creating Er Serbia was hidden. It seems to me that 1,300 people from the former JAT, when Er Serbia was formed, were transferred to the Republic of Serbia's budget. Then there were numbers about some new employment allegedly and they weren't talking about that side. That's bad. I repeat, the problem with this law is, first of all, what's written by the client's will. You know, I think it was known when Er Serbia was formed, that one package was made, so it took some time for the package to come true. This is a problem for the development of the business of the airline industry in Serbia because after the takeover, that is, the formation of Er Serbia when significant progress has been made in the number of passengers and operations of Serbia's airport, stagnation has taken place. So, in 2015 and 2016, the number of passengers increases with a 3% rate, the average in Europe increase is 6%, the global average is 6.5%, and I think the average in the region of passenger growth in airports goes in two-digit percentages. It is bad for Serbia that the development of Serbia's airport is related exclusively to Er Serbia. So, growth rates, I spoke here Minister, in 2010 13%, in 2011 16%, in 2012, 8%, these were growth rates because various companies came to Belgrade airport and opened new lines. The growth of 31% from 2013 is of course related to Er Serbia but further growth is exclusively related to Er Serbia and this concessionary coming to develop business with Er Serbia, not other companies. We'll see about the years ahead of us, and that's why we think that this job that you're planning to do is bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11334	The MPs of the DS Group together tabled on Chapter 8 and Article 21 of the amendment. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11335	Rocks. This member and others in the transitional and final provisions speak of deadlines and this is the biggest problem of normative optimism. We put in the terms of the deadlines in which either the founding act is being amended or a sublegal act will be passed, and then that doesn't happen. And it's going to be, or it shouldn't be a serious problem. In June 2013, the Serbian Parliament even adopted a resolution on Serbia's legislation, which has obliged the government to at least explain why it does not deliver sublegal acts together with the proposals. So, in the transitional and final provisions, you are asking that the founders of the airport operator and airport operators to comply with the founding acts with the provisions of this law within three months of the date of entry into force. Airport operators are obliged to comply with this law and the founding act within 60 days of the date of compliance of the founding acts with the provisions of this law. By the end of March, a complete job will be completed by the end of the election. That's how it's supposed to be, that this law would really be applied. I'm rooting for it to be so, because that would mean moving forward with respect to what we're all supposed to be doing, and that's the application and supervision of law enforcement. Since you will remain with these deadlines, we will remain on promise to ask for three months as to how article 21 was applied, whether the operators have brought and harmonised the founding act. It is a way that you may encounter a reaction again – whatever you are harassing, but it is a way to help the executive authority. It's our job.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11336	The MPs of the Dveri Group submitted together to Article 21 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11337	In our amendment, we propose to shorten these deadlines, that instead of three months, how long it takes for the founding act of the founders of the airport operators and airport operators to comply with the provisions of this law, we propose two months, i.e. to bring their general acts into line with this law and the founding act instead of 60 days, 45 days. We consider that appropriate, given that we adopt this law ourselves by an emergency procedure. If someone wants to be an airport operator and manage airports, which is an extremely complex and complex undertaking and process, it's amazing that it takes five months to complete the overall transformation of all its acts. We believe that three and a half months, as long as all these deadlines are collected, and we propose far and more practical and makes more sense and more appropriate to the urgency of adopting this law, especially because in response to these amendments, you say that this is the maximum time limit and that it is likely that this deadline for the actual achievement of these actions will be shorter than it is planned. I would like to join the initiative that even within a short period of three or two months, as far as you've put it here, we ask if they've met the deadlines, because we have a problem with deadlines. You just mentioned a board at the airport in Nis, and I would mention a payment ramp at Vrchin, which is nine months late and simply, so far there's never been any responsibility for deadlines, so I'm afraid there's no identical situation here in this case. I would also have to refer to one of the opinions of our parliamentary group regarding this law, particularly initiated by the presentation of a previous speaker. We feel that this law is too high and unnecessary and we have made that clear. But we also believe that it is not true that only privatisation or concession is a good thing, especially for airports, because the airport is a natural monopoly and worse than the natural monopoly of the state is a natural monopoly of a private company and certainly, experience shows us that no prosperity has brought about for the citizens. On the other hand, why should we give something that works well, and evidence that in OECD economies, the world's most developed countries, about 20% of gross national income is directly realised by the state. The direct state is making 20% of the gross national income, and I think it's precisely demagogy that we've been listening to for the past 16 years since that famously better post-five-octobaric future we've been promised, which is that we have to do liberalisation and privatisation. That's the only thing I can agree with. Instead of privatization, we got robbed. And I absolutely don't think it's necessary to privatise everything, because if you have a number of these segments where only a state can manage it, such as public enterprises or municipal enterprises, where profits should not be the primary goal, but also citizens' concerns. On the other hand, saying that the state is incapable of managing something, how can the state manage a state? Because the state and government of the state, or what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing, is far more complex and complex than the most complex company, and the most complex enterprise. So, absolutely there is the difference between the policy represented by the Dvori and the policy represented and apparently a large number of MPs, much larger than the ruling majority in this room, where we feel absolutely opposite and that national resources should not be sold and should remain owned by Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11338	Members of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted together to the 22nd amendment. The word is Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11339	Thank you. Article 22 in the transitional and final provisions obliges the application of the law to bring the sublegal act referred to in Article 15(4) of this Act into force within 90 days of the date of entry into force of this Act. What is the position of Article 15? He says the government is closer to regulating the way and criteria, i.e. criteria for the allocation of incentive funds for airports. Therefore, the government will adopt a sublegal act and oblige itself to do so within 90 days. This member, which I consider inevitable when making such a spine lex specialis, is the reason that first, like everything else, I ask that this law not even enter into force and that it does not exist, that according to the existing law on concessions, we do not respect our own acts either. So, for many good reasons, this has nothing to do with the government, any of which, the National Assembly has passed a resolution on the legislative process, where it has prescribed that a proposal for a sublaw comes with it. The resistance to really happen with completely pointless explanations, as – we can't know what the law will look like, so we can't have a sublegal act. Well, you can tell what a sublegal act will look like when you have the law. And if it's an argument -- we can't know what the law looks like, so you didn't know what this law would look like either. Amendments have been accepted, it's changed, it's not as it entered the Assembly. Unfortunately for me, we in the National Assembly don't have enough power and awareness that every government should commit to submitting us with proposals for sublegal acts. Hypothetically, just imagine that this law came with a proposal for a sublegal act in accordance with the provisions that you proposed that no one would change anything, which would determine what the government said, criteria and way, or criteria for the granting of incentive funds. How much clearer things would be, how much easier it would be for both of you and me, how much better it would be for people in Serbia if we had that act that implies that it has to be brought in in 90 days.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11340	Members of the Devere parliamentary group submitted together to Article 22 of the amendment. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11341	We believe that the Ministry is obliged to pass the sublaws within a short period of time. We're just repeating, we just pointed out that if we adopt one law in an emergency procedure, we don't think it's appropriate that sublegal acts are made for three months. Since this is not a law that has a large number of members, since there is nothing new here in this law that is practically introduced as normal, because we have already found that most of these provisions can be found in other laws that regulate this matter. We don't see why it would take three months to pass the law. I had one dialogue with the minister in principle on this topic, where she said that three people work with her at the Ministry for the adoption of sublegal acts in this area, although she remains to show us the systematization of jobs, because I still think that over 100 employees in the Air Traffic Sector, but well, we'll see, I'll definitely get a systematization and somewhere there will be opportunities to keep this discussion going. I think we should split that deadline for the adoption of sublegal acts, because once you've already passed the law by emergency procedure, and the state authorities would have to work a little more urgently and a little bit more expediently, because you obviously had some reason to rush, why you haven't already prepared the sublegal acts, not to say what the MP before me said that it would be even after that resolution that was passed before I became a national MP, appropriate and that the sublegal acts would be by the law itself. You haven't answered me for this deadline break around Vrčin, because the question is whether anyone has ever been punished and if anyone has ever been responsible for breaking deadlines, since the same firm that builds that payment ramp near Vrčin is building on the Ike. There's no delay with Ikea, and there are delays in the business with the state, so I'd just like you to comment on that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11342	The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by Gorica Gajic, Milan Lapčević and Dejan Šulkic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 23rd Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS Group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed the search of these amendments, I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We're moving on to a debate on a bill on housing and building maintenance. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. By written amendment, MPs Sonja Pavlovic and MP Snezana Paunovic withdrew. You have received reports from authorized committees and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On Chapter I, the name above Article 1 and Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. Does anyone want a word? (No) LJupka Mihajlovska submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member Branka Stamenkovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives has rejected this amendment. On behalf of members 2nd and Article 2nd of the amendment, MP Gordana Komic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of members 3rd and Article 3rd amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11343	Thank you. In Article 3. in the perimeter, the meaning of the term has an attitude that makes... The article is otherwise large and implies a very detailed definition of all terms in the whole idea of the law, and in principle I explained why I believe that the whole bill will not be applied, nor will it bring about any improvement, because what this law wants to change is not measured. He who can't measure, he can't even manage. It's not about the Minister or the Government, it's about our general narrative that we love by heart to propose solutions. Since I know very well my reasons why I want to delete every member. I think it's my duty to say and what I'm terribly sorry about. If there was a way to remain this position in Article 3, I would have written the amendment, but I can't. Therefore, the first position in Article 3 says – all terms in this law used in malehood are understood both in female and vice versa. This attitude took courage, needed knowledge, and should have been aware of the consequences of good can even produce such a law. Since I'm standing by the idea that I don't want to improve the laws in any way, I don't think that's possible before we start with basic things, and that's how many congregations there are. I really think it's my duty to tell the Minister that this will remain remembered and that happiness would be in every law. Why does it matter? Because there's talk here about property, about rights that have always been defined only by a male. This proposal tells us – there is also a female in Serbia. I think it's good to record that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11344	Thank you. Parliamentarians of the Dveri Group submitted together to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Parliamentarians Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Zdravko Stankovic, Nenad Konstantinovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11345	The Honorable President, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, so we have submitted an amendment to Article 3 and that amendment has been rejected. The essence of this amendment is that if we are already passing one law that needs to improve the quality of housing, we simply think that the concept of apartment must be determined in such a way that it is an apartment that has at least one room and a bathroom. We can't call an apartment in the 21st century something that has one room, and practically no bathroom at all. I think it was logical for an amendment like this to be accepted. On the other hand, we have suggested that the concepts define that the construction can only be done in accordance with the Law on Planning and Construction, which is point 33), when it comes to superstructure, is foreseen. We got an answer that there's no need, no need to take it. If it is understood and there is no need, then why does it say in point 33 that the superstructure is done in accordance with the Law on Planning and Construction, and the addition cannot be written in accordance with the Law on Planning and Construction? Also, we also suggested that, of course, point 42) should be specified who are members of the family household and that members of the family household should be all persons who are in that family household and among them can certainly be grandchildren, I say, parents and those who have the right to live in a certain apartment. There is no reason not to mention grandchildren, unless they have otherwise solved the housing issue and are located in a family household. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11346	Members of the Democratic Party Group together submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. You? Happy Peacock? (Mreto Peric, from the post: As an authorised representative. Yes, yes, but on this amendment 3? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11347	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I assume that you, with this legislative proposal, wanted to codify this area, because what you're trying to do so far with the House and Building Maintenance Act has been regulated into three laws that also regulate this area. This is the House Bill, which was passed in 1992 and, of course, with its amendments and additions, the Social Housing Act was passed shortly later in 2009 and the Building Maintenance Act 1995. When looking at Article 3 that regulates the basic concepts to be used when applying this law and, you know, this law will refer to a large number of non-expert citizens, but should have certain concepts that they understand fully and accurately. Here, let's say, you didn't define exactly what a building was in this Article 3 in these terms. Of course, it is, and there's one attitude that completely profiles and defines the building, but you also have to say that the building is also considered the areas that have a roof. You also have this situation to say that the apartment is considered at least one room in a certain building. It's not something to come to, it's currently staying and going. In the apartment most often people stay, not to say, all day long and there you have to define in a different way what it means and what the apartment is.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11348	Sonja Pavlovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The word is by the MP Sonja Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11349	Thank you. Article 3(2), point 42, which reduces, under the proposed law, the number of recognised members of the family household. I think it's one of the most unfair points of this law, because in these conditions, not actually living conditions, where they live for three generations in the same housing unit, we're reducing the possibility of this housing unit being realistically measured according to the needs of the actual state of the household members on the ground. What does that mean? That means when we work, say, moving apartments. We don't count in those apartments spouses or out-of-marriage partners, kids who own, rent apartments. We don't count the grandchildren who live in that apartment. This further means that we have narrowed down, reduced the housing unit that is obtained for resettlement and people, where there are really five or six members of the household, get a housing unit that is suitable for two or three members of the residential household. In addition, that provision is contrary to the definition of a member of the family household referred to in Article 4(4). Law on the registration and registration of tenants indefinitely in dwellings in the property of citizens, responsibilities and foundations. In the interest of the uniform public order and its consistency, two regulations should not be allowed to define the same concept in different ways. It is therefore necessary to comply with the existing, adopted law. So we have a legal basis, and we have one called the human, the real basis of what's going on on in the field, to coordinate these two things. Do not let us return to the 1970s, 1980s, when many grandchildren lost their dwellings because they were not recognized by household members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11350	National MP Snezana Paunovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does he want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the Minister if he accepts the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11351	I accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11352	On Chapter II, Section 1, the name above Articles 4 and 4 of the amendment was submitted by Gordana Komic. Do you want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of members 5 and Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. Do you want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Do you want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the 6th and 6th Amendment, Commissioner Gordana Komic submitted a letter. Do you want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Members of Parliament of the Dveri Group submitted together to Article 6 of the amendment. Do you want a word? Srjan Nogo.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11353	We believe that, in practice, it is a very rare situation, for someone to give part of their special work in the building, although in the explanation you stated that it is theoretically possible and should remain, but somewhere in general some property rights norms, it is possible to regulate such a relationship by which the modes would not, as you stated in the explanation, for example, be the last part of a business space, or a smaller room whose owner was interested in selling it or, under some other conditions, transfer it into a shared property, and this could be arranged by some other norms that regulate general and property-legal relations. There is no need to norm in this law, especially as it opens up any possibility of abuse if it comes to some elderly, legally ignorant party and the like. There, that's all, but you didn't accept what to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11354	Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11355	A little explanation. Our point is that it's enough to make one case appear and it needs to be arranged. But what I have to take the opportunity to say right now is that I am very sorry that your MP group has asked for an amendment to be deleted in Article 1. – gender-equal expression. I'm very sorry about that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11356	She said she was sorry you submitted the amendment. You can change it, explain it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11357	That amendment came through a little while ago. And here we have, as you have seen in that explanation of our amendment, if we are already talking about it, it is too much of a note, given that no regulation has established the defined obligation of gender neutrality of the expressions used in the regulations. This is before the provision of Article 43, the uniform methodological rules for the production, the use of the storks is prescribed, so that the same expression contained in the regulation is used in the male race, unless the nature of things requires otherwise. What you've done, look out, these are unique methodological rules for making regulations, and here you've done this member of the law a radically feminist approach and determining some kind of jungle of ideology, which I can see is now modern and that at the big door you're trying to break into and into Serbia, whose speaker you are, which really doesn't make any sense. I remember watching television broadcasts, in my own time, while the current speaker of parliament was your opposition MP, and then the Democratic Party was the first to introduce these so-called breakthroughs, and the Gender of Ideology and Radical Feminism, and you, Madam President, were then opposed to saying that you were not a national MP, but a Madam People's MP. It's escalated here today, something that's existed as a practice for tens of years. Here, a colleague from the SNS Group can also say that it is natural for expressions to be used in malehood and that they refer to male and female, that you are now changing by giving some meaning, because this is what the Commissioner for Gender Equality asked you to do, because it is truly amazing and ridiculous.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11358	So I shouldn't say ladies and gentlemen, I should say gentlemen and gentlemen. Okay. On behalf of the above members of the 7th and Article 7th Amendment, MP Gordana Komic submitted. Do you want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11359	Thank you. And this amendment to Article 7, as well as the whole of the law, I believe that it will produce more problems than it will make it useful, that it will not be applicable, and that is why I want to delete it, and the proof is the second position of this Article 7, which speaks of a change in the purpose of a particular part of the building. Here, the bill says – the change of purpose is decided at the request of the owner of the special work in the procedure prescribed by this law and the regulations governing planning and construction. When you put two regulations in a position similar, of course, because they refer to the same matter, then you can only create a problem depending on who will interpret how the parts of the procedure prescribed by this law apply, and how planning and construction would happen without commenting, let's just say, in this determination of procedure, if it's whether it's men or women, let's just do women. Let him write. when it doesn't matter. Like what? If it doesn't matter if they're citizens and citizens, then let's just be citizens, if it doesn't matter. Or, if it's the owner and the owner anyway, then let's just be the owners. I mean, since it doesn't matter. Because it doesn't matter whether we're women or men, so it doesn't matter when you put in this position, the procedure under one law and another law. I'm not asking you to explain it to me, but I do know how to read the laws that show here will be a problem. A special part of the building, someone has to decide, will be used for someone more favourable.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11360	Srjan Nogo.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11361	Shortly, since this was obvious to my address, although Mrs. Gojkovic owes you that answer while you were an opposition MP. I quoted you when you criticized what I'm criticizing right now. Let me ask you a question. What are we going to do tomorrow when those who do not feel like men or women come forward? Well, then those who are transgender or whatever. So will we, like that German MP in parliament, say one 20 minutes of introduction, citing all these forms of modern times, also have to lead them next time? So, let's say the summaries that have so far been valid for both male and female, you told the citizens, now must be citizens and citizens, ladies and gentlemen, opening the session chairing and saying to all those who don't feel like gentlemen or ladies, that they are transgender spirit and already what miracles. Let's make a mockery of Parliament and let's protect our society from this jender ideology or which is really something harmful and has nothing to do with human rights and has nothing to do with the protection of women.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11362	Ah, comrades and friends. Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11363	Thank you. It is a total accent that does not seem to be part of the law, but only the legislation of the Republic of Serbia does, talk about different sexes and distinguish the roles of genders is mandatory. We have the Law against Discrimination, we have the Law on which we voted, which prohibits behavior based on prejudice. In our head we can have as much prejudice as we want, as with our prejudices, as with our demons to fight as we know and know it, but the laws of the Republic of Serbia forbid us to turn all our prejudices into behavior, into actions. That is why it was my observation that the introduction of such an attitude was based on the Law on the system of Serbia and on this law is an important thing, and it is a good thing that someone dared to do so. It's not good to make fun of anyone based on personal qualities. It's not good for those who mock, because that kind of communication always says more about us when we say them, but about anyone, whom we want to mock, because of any personal quality, whether it's a woman, whether it's a man, whether it's a transgender person, whether it has a different sexual commitment, skin color, culture, religion, nation, it's a personal property. If there is one thing that I am proud of, when it comes to Serbia, is that we have managed to pass the regulations that we have clearly stated – it is forbidden. Act by qualified people based on personal properties is forbidden behavior. (Srdian Nogo, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11364	He can't replica the amendment. This was an explanation for the amendment to you. Here you go. Here you are, Mary, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11365	I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104, since the exhibitor was misunderstood. I thank you, too, for giving me the opportunity to present as a woman today both the position of the Dvora and my personal opinion that the most important thing for us is that women are really helped, but in the right way. I don't see how that's going to change any more significantly in this law. What is real life in Serbia? Women who receive a child's allowance and sit at home because they don't have a job, and they want to work, they experience someone telling them – they sit at home and they can rip out a horse's tail. So it is important for women to get real help, the true and privileges they deserve as mothers or prominent in their careers, and not only to satisfy a form that, unfortunately, comes from the EU and the massive bureaucracy that takes up time itself, valuable time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11366	If it's 104, we haven't heard anything about Article 104, and by Article 103, Section 8, I'm taking two minutes after you gave yourself a line. The MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted together on Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the above members of the 8th and the 8th Amendment, the People's MP Gordana Comic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of members 9th and Article 9th of the amendment, MP Gordana Komic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Parliamentarians of the Dveri Group submitted together to Article 9 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11367	Since Article 9 regulates the availability of common parts of the building, which is the transfer of property rights to common parts of the building, we believe that in paragraph 4. ‘signature certificate’ shall be replaced by the words ‘Immobility transport’. We've got real traffic here. We have private property at our disposal, the right to property, and therefore we believe that it should be treated in the same way that it is regulated. So, on which the traffic of immovableity is regulated, because the shape of the immovableity traffic is far more serious and far more responsible and it is not without reason. So there's no form of "ad solemnitate" for no reason established by the transfer of immovableity, and here you have a traffic of immovableity in form that is much weaker than the form we require. It's simple, over the signature, but here's the subject of a contract on which an overa signing is made for the traffic of real estate rights, and I really don't think the explanation is that the sufficient form is to edit over the signature. Then why don't we change the traffic of immovableity, run a simple signature check. What's there to solmise these contracts? I'm asking you one more time to think about it. First of all, I'm asking my fellow lawyers to think this through. There's no reason not to prescribe a stricter degree of form here, because we already have a transfer of property rights to immovable property, so why don't we treat it as they are treated with the proper laws?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11368	Milena Bicanin, Meso Omerovic and Muamer Bačevac together submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) LJupka Mihajlovska submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of members 10th and Article 10th of the amendment, MEP Gordana Comic tabled. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of members 11th and Article 11th of the amendment, MP Gordana Komic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of Parliament of the Dveri Group submitted together to Article 11 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Srdjan Nogo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11369	With this amendment, we wanted to prescribe the obligations of utility companies that maintain the systems that consumers use, either the water network, or the power grid, that they simply have an obligation to respond to that network not only to the criteria, but to the very connection of consumers, because we often have problems with the distribution of electricity or plumbing not coming out to consumers and users of services when there is a problem, because they only look at the criteria, but here when there are no criteria, then you know how to apply to the site of the connection, so that if it can already be to the benefit of citizens, especially if they are distributors of electricity or water suppliers, monopolies, yet large and serious enterprises and are far better placed than ordinary citizens? Let's do a little step in favour of ordinary citizens here, because there are always laws being passed on to the damages of those citizens who are just paying for the services they're getting, and then why don't they pay for what they're getting? You know, we have a duty from the moment the power grid enters my own apartment or my own plumbing network into my own apartment, to assume responsibility and obligation for that network, and if you put it up to the moment of the numbering from my apartment to my apartment, there can be an "h", "in" malfunctions that are responsible for these malfunctions. Well, you can't chase power or plumbing for two days to come and fix it for you. It's one big problem that works in practice. You just said that if there is one case in practice, in the previous amendment that you refused, you think you need to standardize it. There are a lot of cases here. It's a big problem for the citizens. Then let's just keep it normal and go out for the benefit of the citizens. That would be a great progress, if the final government had done something in the interests of the citizens, not just in the citizens' pocket.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11370	The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11371	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, representatives of the Serbian government, I suggest we reject the proposed amendment. Accepting this amendment would lead to the discriminatory position of the owners of individual housing. Then anyone who owns an individual residential facility could require the maintenance of the entire network whether it's electrical energy, plumbing or anything else in their facility, just like it is in residential buildings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11372	The word has been made by MP Srdjan Nogo, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11373	Just to realize that it's my pleasure that a fellow SNS officer said he didn't want to meet the citizens and that the SNS is not working in the interest of the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11374	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11375	Just for the public's sake, so there aren't any different thoughts. We're very concerned about the interests of the citizens. Everything is defined by the Energy Act, what you're talking about, and that is, among other things, written in an explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11376	Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Sonja Pavlovic. Do you want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Sonja Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11377	Thank you. Article 11(4) states: “If there is no criterion on the network, the parts of the network in the building are owned by an entity providing service to that network. ” We believe that if there is no criterion on the network, the parts of the network in the building are considered a common part of the building, not an operator of the network, and the parts that are incorporated into special parts belong to the owners of these special parts. What does that mean in practice? This member of the law seemed to be responding to some telecommunications service operator and in fact gives him the exclusive right to most of the facilities that without competition he can take the whole network into a building, and we know that the owners of special housing units, like cable networks, so the telephone network, they themselves funded in their special units. So, we think that if there is no criterion on the network, parts of the network in the building are considered a common part of the building, and parts of the network that are incorporated into special units are owned by the owners of these special units, because they themselves have funded them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11378	The 11th Amendment was submitted by the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11379	Amendment accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11380	Amendment accepted. On Section 2, the name above Article 12 and Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by Gordana Komic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted together to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Sonja Pavlovic submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 12th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Nenad Konstantinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11381	I cannot understand why the SNS will not accept the amendment that the owner of a special piece is disabled, or has someone in the family of a member of a disabled household, that he can fix, perform the repair or work on the joint work needed to adapt these parts of the building so that they can be used in accordance with his needs, or the needs of members of the family household. So if you have some kind of ramp for disabled people at the entrance to the building, why don't you let the owner of one of the apartments fix that ramp if that ramp is broken, broken or damaged? In response to why the amendment is not accepted, you say because it is affecting the Law on Planning and Construction and would violate the rule provided for in Article 145. The law on planning and construction. That's just not true. That's not true. As you said in point 2), the owner of the special work can repair and perform works on building a joint work if it threatens to do damage to his apartment. So he can fix the facade, which he also needs an authorisation under Article 145, so he can do some repairs if it damages his special part, so it'll sneez, but he can't fix the ramp for the disabled. What does SNS have against disabled people? And why are you making it impossible? The possibility of whether or not a permit is required to do so is resolved by the Law on Planning and Construction, and that law will also be governed.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11382	The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11383	I think it's clear to everyone that no one can only have anything against the disabled, as you say, but we're doing everything we can to improve the conditions, but you're chasing two things. Article 2 discusses urgent interventions, and that's why the definition you said is, and in this article that we're talking about, Article 11 clearly states that this job is being resolved by a reduced procedure, and to put it the way you thought we should put it, then it would be contrary to the Law on Planning and Construction. What else, now in translation, and you know very well, there's no problem in ending it, but it's going to be in a shortened procedure. Speaking of which, I think you've had a number of amendments that we've had in that section regarding the rights of the disabled and accepted. So, that's it. (Nenad Konstantinovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11384	You can only follow the amendment, Mr. Konstantinovic. (Nenad Konstantinovic, from the post: The minister did not understand me well, she spoke to me. I don't understand. You're a lawyer. Just talking doesn't mean you've earned your right to a replica. It has to be either offensive or she doesn't understand you. From what I've seen, there was neither. You can explain the amendment to her. You have no right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11385	It's clear to me that the SNS wants to spend opposition time, so that it can easily go over all the amendments. Minister, I'm not mistaken, but your advisors are telling you badly. Point 2) does not mean any urgent intervention, it clearly states that the owner of the apartment can perform repairs and other works on the common areas of the building, which is necessary to remove the risk of causing damage to its particular part. I'm asking you, why can't he do the job of removing the damage on a wheelchair because he can't get into the building because the ramp for the disabled has collapsed? What article 145? If such works require authorisation and by which member, it will be determined by the authority issuing the licence. There's no shortened procedure here, and you need permission for one and the other.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11386	The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11387	I heard you well, but you didn't read well. So, there's a problem. That article, which you mention, says: “Do repairs or other works on common areas of the building, which is necessary for the removal, ” and now to say the word that is missing and which you did not say,“ dangers from causing damage. ” Well, it's not the same when you say danger and when you say only damage. It's not the same. What you'd say, it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11388	On behalf of members 13th and Article 13th of the amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The 13th Amendment was submitted by the MP, Dr Ana Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Goran Cabradi, Marinika Tepic, Nada Lazic and Olena Papuga. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11389	Thank you, Chairman. In the proposal for a law in Article 13(7), LSV suggested changing and saying – if there are several such owners of special parts of the building, which would turn the common section into a flat for family housing, the decision is made by the residential community. It means Article 13(7). It is predicted that if there are several such owners of special parts that would turn the common section into a family apartment, the advantage is the owner of a special work that has several members of the household. Such a proposed solution could cause a number of problems in practice and give some broad opportunities for manipulation. We believe that it would be more practical for such a dispute to be resolved by the living community itself, with certain guidelines, instead of ignoring all other circumstances other than the number of persons reported to a particular apartment. You said the law gave a precise criterion to determine the advantage, but somehow we didn't understand, so this amendment wanted to change it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11390	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Traffic, Infrastructure, Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the above members of the 14th and Article 14th Amendment, the People's MP Gordana Komic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Traffic, Infrastructure, Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MP Alexander Chabrai and the MPs of the DS group together submitted to the 14th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk letter from Alexander Chabrai.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11391	Thank you. With this amendment, I have suggested that point 6 be deleted. It is, in fact, that the owner of a separate building or a separate part of the building is obliged to allow entry and use into his part of the building for repair or maintenance. I think it's extremely unserious that we have a member of the law like this if they're not closer to certain or precise conditions under which this can happen. Of course, it is sometimes necessary to approve such access or use a certain part of the building, apartment, etc. But we can't just say that we can have a member of the law that would be very susceptible to different interpretations or very susceptible, I dare say, abuses. I'm going to say one of the most banal examples, what happens if, say, it's for maintenance or repairing to one of our neighbors is more conveniently simply to take some repairs out of our apartment, instead of taking them out of the hallway, from the outside of the building, etc. I think that since this is how it is formulated, I am not saying that any other formulation would not be appropriate, as this member of the law is formulated, that is, attitude 6 is in conflict with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which in Article 40 guarantees the integrity of the apartment, and in Article 58 guarantees the peaceful enjoyment of property and other property rights acquired under the law. So, in order for such a member of the law or such an attitude to exist, he would have to be more precisely formulated. If that's not the case, I think we should delete it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11392	The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11393	Thank you. First, it is not required to let anyone into that space, and the Law on Planning and Construction is very clear and says that the exercise of inspection supervision by the building inspector is authorized to enter without a court decision and to special physical parts of the building for which the works are carried out, for which inspection supervision is provided under this law, etc. So, I think we've been very specific, that only the building inspector knows what situations, can be entered without a court decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11394	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sonja Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is by the MP Sonja Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11395	Article 14(1), point (6) – owners are obliged, I read as it says in the bill, to allow passage through their specific part of the building or its use in another appropriate way, if necessary for repair. Repairs and maintenance of other parts of buildings are always necessary. However, private property in democratic societies can only be violated if there is no other way to repair it, except by violating property rights in a special part. So we can't say that this attitude itself is good. If there's no other way to make repairs, then there's a possibility of doing it through a special housing unit. What does that mean in practice? I like to put these laws into practice right now. In practice it means there's always a way, so to always say, to do some work. This can be done by setting up a skeleton, it can be done by setting up a car crane or in some other appropriate way, without damaging the private property of the owner of special housing units. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11396	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Ivan Kostic, Miladin Ševarlić, Marija Janjušević, Zoran Radojić and Dragan Vesović. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11397	Article 14 provides for the rights, i.e. obligations which the owner of the specific work has and how he is obliged to use his specific part. Here in item 6 of Section 1, you give one very strange and broad formulation, where you precisely state in all six of these points of obligation that the owner of the apartment has. However, you say – it is required to allow the passage through its special part of the building or its use in another appropriate way, if necessary to repair, or maintain the second part of the building. That's not controversial. However, this final part – or the fulfillment of another legal obligation, it can be very controversial, because it is an inaccurate interpretation and really gives one breadth and one possibility of possible abuse. You already have everything exactly normized and I really don't see what this is the second legal obligation that you have not already foreseen in previous points, even in point 6) of Article 1 of the 14th Law. Now let's imagine a situation in practice that we have, for example, an example. forced administration in the building, so that professional manager who is forced by the forced administration, who is an employee of a professional management organisation owned by the SNS, this means a party bot, and so you can make different obligations for the owners of the apartment, i.e. special parts of the building. That's why this norm is very imprecise and gives quite arbitrary. So, I repeat, you've already got everything precisely defined, and one such existence of arbitration is either superfluous or hiding some potential evil intention.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11398	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Chapter 3, Section 1, the name of Article 15 and Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Ana Stevanović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojičić, Maja Vidinović, Goran Jesic, Balša Bozovic, Natasa Vučković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic and Veroljub Stevanović submitted together. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11399	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't know why it's so hard for you to read the names and last names of the DS MPs. The Democratic Party in Article 15 of Article 1(3) wishes to delete professional managers. I know that the SNS, with Goran Vesic at the helm, in order to regroup its bots into professional managers, wanted to impose another payment and such poor citizens of Serbia, now Serbia's citizens are paying party listeners and SNS bots. You've transformed it into professional managers. We want to erase professional managers, because your SNS patsies, those who make you cry and all other things, to work on your hump, not on the back of Serbian citizens, who have cut your salaries, who have reduced your pensions, who have reduced your subsidies to agriculture, and now you want...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11400	Let's talk about the amendment, colleague Milojicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11401	Mr. Arsic, I don't know why you're interrupting me all the time. If you have no arguments to answer all this DS has submitted, don't interrupt me. Please give me back the 10 seconds you took away from me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11402	Mr. Radojcic, I have the right to interrupt when you're not talking about the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11403	Mr. Arsic, first guess my last name.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11404	All right, all right, Mr. Milojich, what's the problem?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11405	I'm not Radojicic, I don't know who you're talking to.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11406	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11407	Can I finish?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11408	Finish up, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11409	By amendment. I don't know why only DS MPs can't say a single word that doesn't comply with the amendment. Is it true that by order of Goran Vesic and Alexander Vukic, you introduced professional managers? It's true. Is it true that professional managers, members of the SNS, should be paid for by the money of Serbian citizens? It's true. Please allow us here to speak uninterruptedly and that your colleagues from the SNS are not getting us any. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11410	You're psychic, Mr. Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11411	What?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11412	You're psychic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11413	Mr. Arsic, if you want to flaunt with me and if you dare to break with the manna, go down to the benches of the SNS, and answer me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11414	I'll answer something else for you, colleague Milojicic. While you have already mentioned the names of the MPs and whether I find it difficult to read, I need to know that I am the practice, that experience gained from my colleague Gordana Comić, whom you are sitting next to, and I don't blame her for doing so. Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11415	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is going to be short, just like every time a replica is caused by the same man who caused it before. There's no need to be different. We've been listening here in this explanation mostly about SNS and some fantastic ideas that this man put out here, and he didn't come up with himself, which is more than clear, among other things, because I don't expect that kind of creativity, or any creativity from the same face. He was talking about SNS and the question of professional managers. If we ever hear from the same face during this session. what that category of professional managers means, in which way it is even engaged and whether it is necessary or not, and wherever anything is behind it, where anyone could do them, under what conditions, etc., may be worth any more commentary. I claim he doesn't know it, nor can he give any explanation of that kind at all. Why is it that every time a SNS is spoken of in the word, I think one Ethiopian folk proverb paints enough – the smaller the lizard, the greater his desire to become a crocodile. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11416	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11417	Mr. Chairman, I don't want, as the previous speaker spoke about animals, about lizards, about talking about monkeys now, that's not the subject. I would like to advertise Article 100, that the President of the National Assembly when chairing the National Assembly session, if he wishes to participate in the debate, will leave his place to one of his vice presidents. So, Mr. Arsic, you've violated article 100. If you want to have sex with me, you come down as Madam President to the MPs' benches, learn something from her, and then you throw me, and then you break down with a flaw. You can't talk to any MP from that place, not even DS MPs. We have suggested that the previous member be deleted, as DS will erase from the SNS political scene in the upcoming elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11418	Mr. Milojicic, first of all, you asked me why I'm having a hard time reading names, do I have the right to answer you as chairman? I do. The second question you asked, your request was to appease the MPs of the SNS, so that you could have your exposure. There was no need to calm them, only that you were psychic, so that you knew in advance something would happen. That's all I was talking about. I don't know what you were thinking. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11419	I thank the President for giving me your word. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. I don't know which member wasn't injured, but let's start with Articles 106, 107, 108, 109, etc. Article 106 says the speaker can only talk about the agenda point, which in this case would refer to amendments. It is noticeable that whenever an MP calls for a word, he never speaks of the points of the agenda. My big guess is that he never even knows exactly what we have on the agenda, which are the bill's proposals, let alone what amendment we've come to. It is amazing how you allow someone who is obviously, if I can give myself the freedom to interpret the presentations of MPs, obsessed with the Serbian Progressive Party, obsessed with Alexander Vukic, and here is the latest obsession today, and that is certainly the mention of Goran Vesic. I don't see what any forced administrators, professional building managers or residential buildings have to do with this amendment. If someone has asked for these managers to be introduced, it is certainly all those members of the Democratic Party who, after losing their post, have lost their post and are now probably looking for some kind of arrest through you. But I ask you to apply this Rules of Procedure and to conduct a session in accordance with Rule 27. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11420	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11421	First of all, it's no problem and it's not a sin not to know anything. All right, we're here to talk and explain something. And because of the 250,000 votes you have, I'll explain now. So professional managers are not a liability. Every residential unit, or every residential building and facility, chooses its president, so-called The president of the House Council, that's what he's called so far, will now be the manager. If she can't choose the manager, then she can choose a professional manager to help manage and maintain the building. There are no additional obligations. I understand, and I can understand that, if you hadn't studied the subject completely, because you're some professional economist, because then you couldn't, with a budget of 800 million dinars, take over the liabilities of 2.2 billion dinars in your municipality. That's all possible. But do not speak of the coat of arms of the people, and do not speak falsely, but let us speak the way it really stands and the facts are. That's the first one. Secondly, whether you're going to call us bots, whether Zorana's a bot or anyone, so what, okay, it's okay, you're right, here, Zorana's a bot. But also, this ministry will pass a law that will finally be the first to regulate the area of housing policy. And I repeat again, when you do not know, ask, we will explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11422	Right on line, MP Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11423	Ms. Mihajlovic, with all due respect, you first explain to yourself whether you are in conflict with members of your Serbian Progressive Party, whether you are in conflict with your President Tomislav Nikolic, whether you are in conflict with us from the Democratic Party, we do not want, nor are we causing any conflict, whether you are in conflict with your former President Mladjan Dinkic, whether you are in conflict with your airport director, since you were the airport director until 2010 or something at Serbia's airports, so you are in power all the time, with every authority. I respect your adjustment to every authority. Now, probably, you're already looking for contact with the Democratic Party, to come to the Democratic Party, as the SNS will lose the election. But since you've changed seven games, I hope that you and the seventh parties and the transition to eighth won't be difficult. First, calculate with your MPs here, Djukanovic and others, who you are in conflict with every day, and then you can talk to us from the Democratic Party, with us not wanting to talk to you about some things that are not related to the agenda. I don't know what's at stake for you in Article 15, point 3, we want to delete professional managers. That's what we're talking about. Nothing more. I don't know why you're turning off the subject. You probably don't have one single argument, so then you're turning off the subject of some other stuff. But we can talk about these other things, I just don't think those things will work for you. I know you suffer because your party won't run for President of the Republic, but we can't help you. That's what you have to do in your ranks to calculate, who you're going to be president and what you're going to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11424	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11425	This time the Rules of Procedure, Article 107, is injured, where the speaker is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. If the speaker does not know a little bit in an intellectual or subtle way to replicate Minister Zorani Mihajlovic, then it should neither work nor you allow him to. Indeed, we attended a salvi insult at the expense of Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. And I don't think it's his problem to call who he is and who Zorana Mihajlovic is not in conflict with. Just fantasize about it. You don't respect the dignity of the National Assembly, you're yelling at the president right now and trying to overshadow us with your rude behavior. So Zorana Mihajlovic is a respected member of the Serbian Progressive Party. She is the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. Do your job well and the Serbian Progressive Party and our parliamentary group gives it full support. Do not worry at all about Zorana Mihajlovic and the Serbian Progressive Party parliamentary group, or Vladimir Djukanovic, etc., etc. It would be better to warn the honourable MP Milojic to worry about where the MPs from his parliamentary group are. I am interested in the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia where Bojan Pajtic is located? I'd rather be worried about that. So, to give us notice of the work of his parliamentary group, let ours be left alone, we are here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11426	My colleague Gojkovic, you know that we have tried to influence Mr Milojic more than once, but so far it has not been effective. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11427	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm advertising Article 106, Article 107, Article 103. Mr. Chairman, you are now attending this act of disrupting the speaker, because the Rules of Procedure say he can be distracted in any other way. Those who turned their backs on the coat of arms and the flag, their voters, that's their problem. But when they do so in front of the chairman at the National Assembly's session and thereby obstruct the speaker who is speaking, they hurt the Rules of Procedure, as they hurt him just before, as they threw away, while MP Maja Gojkovic spoke. With that in mind, I believe that you're liberal to the opposition, taught what he did from that presidential table to their chairman at the time when they were the government, which made it easy to give notice, threw out an entire parliamentary group. I believe that for these reasons you are tolerated, but I ask that in the future, especially when this kind of protest, as currently the opposition one party is making a play, therefore, that you will in the future also warn the representatives of opposition parties, no matter how much they make noise here. And voters, according to your reaction, need to assess what one, once respected and powerful party, has fallen to. With that in mind, regardless of the amount of noise you apply from time to time, I respect that you are tolerated. This noise I understand, according to that saying – empty pumpkins always make more noise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11428	Mr. Risticevic, I agree well with your discussion, but I allow these things to be seen by the citizens as representatives of the political parties and who they vote for, and therefore opt for in the next election that will certainly be. I don't think there's any need for that kind of thing to say a warning. Right to the replica of the MP, Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11429	Thank you, Your Honor. I have to admit, I don't even know what I'm talking about, I didn't even participate in anything special today's discussion. But, you know, there is a folk proverb, which is very beautiful, says: “A mouse, and when it climbs up a hill, it remains a mouse. ” That's it. You know, a Chihuahua can't beat a Rottwiler, there's no possibility, and as much as anyone bites, it's where he's at, and it's free of all this theater, where he's actually trying to make a conflict with both you and us, here to provoke and replicas, to provoke allegedly that they're here being terrorized by most. If someone is terrorizing, actually, that's exactly what this aggressive minority is terrorizing the local majority. You know, about conflicts, so that's totally pointless: we all think the same thing, I guess we'd make a new alliance of communists. And exactly SNS is something far more advanced than what they came out of, out of that alliance of communists. We have different opinions, and I think it's great, and it's a feature of democracy, unlike some of them who have kicked each other out of the party, and then they've made 100 parties, smaller or bigger, so now as they need it, sometimes they unite, sometimes they get separated, then they say -- so now we're reunited into some DOS, and they're dividing, so I don't know what they're doing. The bottom line is -- that party used to have one Micunović, one Pekic, really wonderful people who left a great trail in history and our political thoughts and in any way culturally, however you like, and you can imagine what that party came to when it came to Shulet and Ken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11430	According to the Rules of Procedure, the word has a People's MP, Srdjan Nogo.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11431	I would just like to point out that Article 104 of attitude 1 regulates when a right to replication can be obtained - when the MP at the sitting is insultingly expressed about a national MP who is not a member of the same parliamentary group, stating his name, last name or function, or misreading his presentation. I suggest that esteemed counterpart Djukanovic was simply mentioned. The speaker Milojic did not take offense to Djukanovic, nor did he misread his presentation, as Djukanovic did not take the floor in the discussion today. I would like to point out to you, Your Honor, that if you so give the right to a replica, keep that criterion until the end, because, when it comes to the MPs of the government, any mention of their name or interpretation of it as a result of that MP being the basis for a replica, and when it comes to the MPs of the opposition, you are requesting that there be some direct address of an offensive character, namely a direct mention of the name or exposure. So, I'm asking for a uniform criterion.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11432	Mr. Nogo, you seem to like to interpret it, as it suits you. As far as I know, counterpart Djukanovic was named by his last name and accused of fighting with the minister. That's not the reason for the replica? (Srjan Nogo, from the place: If so, then well. ) Right to replication, Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11433	Well, again, first of all, you don't know again, and again I say, it's not a sin not to know. We're here to explain again, let's say. That's one thing. Secondly, you haven't clearly explained the article and the amendment that you want to explain, and that's why I'm taking the right to tell you something about professional managers. Before that, only for your information, so the Serbian airport, where I worked, does not exist, there is a "Nikola Tesla" airport. Deputy Director at the airport, no, Energy Efficiency Advisor. Then, the Democratic Party. So, let me say that in 2006, 2007 and 2008, I was called to the Democratic Party. I wasn't in any single political party at the time. I didn't accept it, because in such a Democratic Party I didn't want to be, as I would never be in the DS today where you have a Shutanovec for president, where you have a man who builds his buildings on pastures, or you have, I don't know, a Pitiæ who really endangers a home for children, etc. So, try not to read the law and have nothing to say, try to create a problem with the SNS, you can't do that. Here's what one Zorana Mihajlovic tells you, which is currently in the SNS and will remain there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11434	Right on line, MP Gordana Covic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11435	Thank you. As an authorised representative of the DS. At the level of folklore, this is the work of the Democratic Party. And if you measure your commitment and loyalty to your party by making fun of the other party, then I have one nice hour and 45 minutes to explain why I would never be in SNS. Here are the Messengers who receive it. Please don't. I won't, of course, because I think it's a style that this assembly doesn't deserve. And it's interesting that you're dealing with DS, I understand, absolutely, that in the replicas you mix that MP Dragoljub Micunović is alive, and that writer Borislav Pekic is dead, I understand the same thing, brings a man. It says – this is the party where Micunovic and Pekic were in. Dragoljub Micunovic is in the party, alive and well, I want him to continue. With a complete understanding that it is necessary to disqualify someone else because it belongs to a party, I ask you, however, not to do so because if such rules apply, we will lose one good rhythm of the debate we had from time to time and we will annoy the people who watch this. We don't want our fans, they love it, and then they text, so hit it, hit it, hit it, but we're not here for our fans. We are here to explain to the people of Serbia what we need and what we know about the Housing Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11436	The word is given by MP Radoslav Milojic, later Vladimir Djukanovic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11437	According to Mr Djukanovic, I quote – Mrs Zorana Mihajlović has done nothing, she is eager for a chair, she is more beautiful for a photoshop and there is only one reason why Tomislav Nikolic and Aleksandar Vukic are at odds with this argument. That's what Mr. Vladimir Djukanovic said. If you, Mrs. Mihajlovic, haven't seen it, here, I can deliver that statement to Mr. Djukanovic. I'm sorry to interfere with your internal relations, but if that's what your party buddies think of you, your party colleagues, we're sorry. We will try to defend you as a woman, as a mother, as a minister. We don't agree to such insults to anyone in any party that they are. (Alexander Markovic, from the scene: Just don't. I ask Mr. Markovic not to throw. If he's got something smart to say, let him answer the word, not throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11438	Mr. Milojich, don't do my job, please. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djukanovic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11439	Look at the wonders, they tell us we don't do DS, and then they deal with us all the time. I repeat again, yes, I did say that. I said 20 more similar statements. I don't know if you understand anything. We're not the Union of Communists. We think differently, but we are a great people's movement that he has gathered, among other things, and people on the left and on the right and from the center, because it is Serbia. And your problem is, and that's what disqualifies you in everything, just because whoever's insinuating, you kick him out of the party. You've come down to the Shutanovec and you. Otherwise, it's scandalous that you put it in my mouth that I said Mr. Micunović died. Far away. I just said that the party had one Micunovic, in the sense that you drove him away even if he was no longer president of the political council. How are you not ashamed of yourself, you treated a man like that, and now you're telling me that I allegedly said that a man died? I say it's the greatest living philosopher we have right now. Here, if you'd like me to have so much respect for him, it's scandalous what you've done now and tried in a very ugly way to impute something to me. You better watch out for yourself why you put a man like that away, let's say you brought Ken to the top of your game. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11440	In accordance with Article 112. I'm setting a five-minute break for the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11441	We're going back to work. Members of the 15th Amendment were together submitted by the MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostic, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić, Marija Janjušević, Zoran Radojić and Dr. Dragan Vesović. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11442	As we have pointed out, this bill may be good for Switzerland, but it certainly is not good for Serbia, and this is another additional introduction of the burdens and obligations of Serbian citizens, which, because of economic opportunities, or the difficulties they are in, they cannot bear now. Namely, here you form a living community as a legal person and apply the provisions of the Association Act to apply now to the housing community. It doesn't matter what kind of tax it is to register a living community, because, of course, it's the same expenditure, but here's the other thing. The housing community is now defined as a legal person, i.e. to apply the provisions of the Association Act to them, will have obligations within the meaning of the Accounting and Audit Act. So far, residential buildings have been excluded from the application of the Accounting and Audit Act, and will now fall under that law, which means that you impose one financial obligation on every residential building to run and bookkeeping, means that it has an accountant and that it submits the final bill, simply to operate as citizens' associations, which is certainly an expense, because you need to have a permanent accountant and to file a final account, all payments and payments go through your accounts, so that it is an additional imposition on citizens of Serbia. Now that we add up the entire scope of the imposition that the SNS party has been introducing for these five years, the question really is, do you have any good intentions towards the citizens of Serbia at all? All of your picture of Serbia's prosperity and consolidated public finances is at the expense of Serbia's citizens and there is no chance that you are doing anything for the benefit of Serbian citizens or even this law. Any amendment that would be in line, means the interests of Serbian citizens of that form of overture of signatures we asked for, so here's to this, you refuse, which is proof that you have no good intentions with this law. Are you aware of all the duties you give to the citizens of Serbia? We can list them. From taxes on property through electricity excises, so far and so far, and these duties you introduce by this law. You treat Serbian citizens worse than the Turks in the period when they occupied Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11443	The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11444	And how we take care of the interests of Serbian citizens. First, the apartment building has a legal personality in management and maintenance operations, so every residential building and in the municipality pays an administrative registration fee. Now under this law he gets legal personality in the fullest sense in all affairs, so, in that so-called. Legal traffic, with the exception, doesn't have to have an accountant, doesn't have to file financial reports, so everything you've listed... There are no additional charges and expenses you've been talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11445	You have no basis for replication, but you can do it by amendment. Do you want to speak by amendment? The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11446	I think I had a basis for replication, but it doesn't matter, there is a selective application of the right to reply to the MPs of the opposition. I would like the minister to point out to me where the law regulates that, only building management, this law that regulates associations, namely that the legal position of the housing community is equated with the legal position of the association of citizens only in terms of building management, and that it does not apply to the Accounting and Audit Act. I don't see anywhere in this article, or the attitude we suggest you delete, to mention it. This law does not indicate anywhere that the Accounting and Audit Act will not apply to housing communities. We have in the next amendment... You've given an explanation that exactly the opposite indicates. In no word do you comment on the Accounting and Audit Act, but comment on the obligation. What you say absolutely does not stand in the law and your word cannot be stronger than the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11447	The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11448	You're absolutely right. My word and how it can't be stronger than the law. The Accounting Act clearly states that it excludes housing buildings from accounting, i.e. the submission of a financial report. We'll find a member. I don't know exactly which member. They say Article 4, but let's see.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11449	The word has been made by MP Srdjan Nogo, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11450	I'll find you that member of the Accounting and Audit Act. That's right. Article 4(4) has not been applied until now. However, now that you define as a housing community association, the Accounting and Audit Act is applicable, because here you say that the rules of the Association Act, the entire legal form of the association now refers to the housing community and automatically applies to the Accounting and Audit Act. You didn't put it anywhere, say or specify it. You have to comply with the Accounting and Audit Act with this law that you've passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11451	On behalf of members of the 16th and the 16th Amendment, MP Gordana Komic submitted. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11452	Thank you. As for all the other members, I want to delete these provisions, or I do not want the law in this form of amendments to be corrected. Every once in a while, I'm going to explain why I think it's the right decision. A dialogue that is just passing from Article 15, and now to Article 16, which in the perimeter says – the concept and legal status of the residential community. So, in eight or nine attitudes, the housing community is defined, which is the apartment. Our entrance one, we're a residential community, and we're choosing a congregation, a congregation of elected directors, if we can't, if we can't, then we get a forced manager, and that's about, through attitudes, definition of the concept and legal status of housing communities. The last position in this article says – the housing community has a home number, has a PIB and a current account and is related to the discussion from a moment ago because you will leave to interpret the Accounting Act. I've looked at Article 4, and I know how to treat and I know a congregation of tenants who now have a contract, they have current accounts and they don't file reports. It's just those residents' congregations that have some income. Do they have any income from the rental of the joints on the ground floor, whether they have income from, was that, the rent of antennas that Telecom is looking for, VIPs, I don't know. Whatever it is, they have some income and these incomes, of course, go through the current account and they go through all the maintenance, mostly, with small and medium-sized enterprises, which maintain and make contracts for current ones, not to mention investment maintenance. When you are now asking for a certain deadline to be done by all and those who do not have income, and without instruction that they remain, in practice so far, for this very small number of people with incomes for their housing units, it will be necessary, either together with the Ministry of Finance or directly, to give a clear instruction and interpretation of the article relating to the obligations of giving financial reports. I'm not asking to put that in the law, but I think it's going to create unnecessary confusion, precisely because it's now being put into everybody's request that they get the birth number, get the PIB and, of course, open the current account.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11453	Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11454	Just to be clear, Article 4. The accounting law is quite clear, the 4th position says – the provisions of this law, therefore the Accounting Act, do not apply to budgets and beneficiaries of budgets, housing buildings, as well as to the organisations of mandatory social etc. So it says very clearly that no financial report will be filed by residential buildings. Business buildings will be organized as associations and then they will, but the residential buildings won't, and it clearly writes. It's in the Accounting Act. I don't know what else to do to make it clear to read the law. Whether or not some buildings have been in our possessions by now, whether or not they have applied the law, so right now we want to sort it out together, they're not going to file a financial report.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11455	Thank you. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojičić, Maja Vidinović, Goran Jesic, Balša Bozovic, Natasa Vučković, Tomislav Žigmanom, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic and Veroljub Stevanović. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostic, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševlić, Marija Janjusevic, Zoran Radojčić and Dr. Dragan Vesovic together submitted to the 16th amendment. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11456	We're looking for a erasure of the position of 2 of this member of the law. So, the housing community has legal personality status that comes at a time when at least two people become owners of two special parts. We believe that a large number of citizens will be burdened without need by creating a residential community with legal status. Imagine now the situation – one family home. The man has two children and leave them or leave them at home, and they make two separate continents, and now they have to organize a living community as a legal person. A large number of people will fall under the influence of this law, and it's costing them again, and I'm returning you, Minister, to that debate from a moment ago. Please listen to me. The law is correct, I have instructed you, Article 4(4). The law on accounting and audits, it applied to housing buildings as it has been formulated so far in the law. However, in our previous amendment, to Article 15, we have made it clear that when you say that the owners of special parts establish a legal person in accordance with the provisions of the laws governing the establishment and legal position of the association. Now, you, the housing community you're introducing, so so far it's been a residential building, now it's got housing communities, you're introducing it and giving them treatment as associations. Article 1(2) of the Accounting and Audit Act and those housing communities are then applied, given that they have legal treatment as an association. I understand that you may not have noticed that there is a need to coordinate to be precise, but this is really an imprecise legal situation, and I will accept that, and if you promise to correct and specify further, within as soon as possible, okay, I can agree. However, if it remains this way, it is only a desire for the citizens of Serbia to be additionally burdened, with one additional financial commitment, with one additional devastation, which has great, huge damage.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11457	The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11458	The Honorable Chairman, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is similar to the previous amendment, the minister did not respond anything to my predecessor. I think you've defined nicely in article 3 that the family house can consist of two apartments, and that the apartment building is three or more apartments. Why in this article do you now make a commitment where there are only two apartments, so a family home, can be the result of having inherited a brother and sister, can be owned by the husband of one apartment, the wife of another apartment? Why are you introducing a residential community and a congregation in a residential community where we have two owners? I think it's too much and that you should correct it. It is pointless for husband and wife to sit in a residential community and choose between themselves managers, etc. It would be good to respect these arguments. As you know, we've tried to fix this law, we've been accepted 16 amendments, and think about these other amendments to accept them.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11459	On Article 16 of the amendment, with a correction, was submitted by the MP Sonja Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word has a national emissary Sonja Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11460	As far as this amendment is concerned, Article 16 of Section 3, I ask the Proposer to think about it again, because I really can't believe that it's not a slip of what's been done here. Do you consider it correct that in public-law relations and procedures in which it is prescribed that the owner of the building appears as a party, the party's property in these proceedings has a residential community? We believe that the correction should be – that there is a living community, which does not deny the owner the right to participate and protect his rights in those public-law relations and procedures. Do you think it's right that he should just have a residential community or should he own a building and a residential community? I'd like you to explain that to me, which you were led to when you defined a member's position on the 16th floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11461	Thank you. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word is by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11462	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, respected citizens. This is where I suggested adding two points, under which housing communities are free from full tax payments. According to the Law on corporate tax, non-profit organisations are taxed if they exceed the level of 400,000.00 dinars per year, and I suggested that it be completely deleted, because the entire income the housing community has is spent on maintaining the building. So, the housing community is not a profit organization, there are no dividends paid to its owners, and hence there's no need to, even if it crosses, if there's some space to rent, so the income of 400,000,00 dinars, it's better if the housing community uses all that money to invest. It is unclear, for the purpose of this article, I would ask for an explanation, as a member is said that buildings are predecessors of residential communities, in Article 137, that residential communities will inherit legal housing buildings, whether housing is now lost as a concept of law and becomes a legal entity that will be subject to both the Accounting and Audit Act and the Law on corporate property tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11463	Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11464	First of all, there's a concept where exactly the apartment building and everything is standing, but when you were talking about tax exemption, we explained, we gave your amendment an explanation. We didn't want to ask, in this way, from, practically, tenants and apartment owners. It's their money. It is their right to use that money as they wish. You wrote investment maintenance, but it doesn't have to be. So their money, their right. In that sense, we can't suggest that they're exempt from paying taxes when they rent, say, rooms or whatever they're doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11465	Thank you. By amendment, MP Dusan Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11466	I'd just like to read the explanation, because I'm also having a dispute. It states in its explanation - the amendment is not accepted, since the decision to exempt tax can be made by the only authority responsible for the purposes of determining the tax liability under the law. Well, we're that organ. We are a law - making congregation, and it can determine whether someone pays or doesn't pay taxes. So my proposal was to free the living community or the building, whatever you want to call it, from paying taxes, since these funds are spent most on building maintenance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11467	According to the amendment, the word has been given by MP Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11468	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd be happy to vote for this amendment, but, my God, how can you vote for an amendment to people who turn their backs and won't listen to other speakers? Democracy isn't just about saying what you want, it's about listening. There's a set of tax laws going on with this. We can't derivate other laws with this law. So the tax administration is acting under tax laws and not by this law. If an esteemed colleague who has avoided exchanges of views, someone would say and escape, if he emulates it in some tax laws, I will certainly vote for this, but it is impossible to free a taxpayer under this law because tax laws are based on which the tax administration acts far older and bring into collage two laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11469	Thank you. National MPs Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojčić, Maja Vidinović, Goran Jesic, Balša Božović, Natasa Vučković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic and Veroljub Stevanovic have submitted an amendment suggesting that the name of members and new member of 16a be added after Article 16. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of members 17th and Article 17th of the amendment, MP Gordana Komic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11470	The Ramrum of Article 17 says – rules on mutual relations between owners of special parts in the residential community. A recent dialogue on the fact that two owners in the residential community, then a congregation of residents, and a residential community, can easily put us in a position to have a new expression in those famous sentences – is being separated from the table, the bed and the living community, so you should consider that there are no solutions for only two residents. This Article 17 is an introduction to a later member on the register of residential communities and what is a pain in the law in general, which is why I do not consider that it should enter into force in any form, not even in an amendment, is that you have attitudes such as the three last positions in this Article 17 which says this - each owner of a separate part of the building can launch an initiative for the adoption of the rules of the owner; insight into the content of the rules may be carried out by any interested person; the rules of the owner shall be registered and published to the register of the residential community in accordance with this law, and shall be an integral part of the rules of the owner of the registration of the specific and common parts of the building. So, when you write attitudes like this, we're going to get into a situation where the register of living communities is established, and when we try to set up order by this law, that we're going to have a worse reaction than when we're introducing an e-government, and then for seven more years, we have people looking for a photocopy of the identity card that has a chip. This is even worse, because it leaves even more space for interpretations, as Article 4 in accounting has residential buildings, this one has residential communities. All of us who walked around management know what we're talking about. Don't leave it like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11471	The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11472	The Honorable Chairman, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in article 17, I think you've brought down the whole concept of this law. I support the introduction of order in this area. These laws are more conceptually better than old, ancient housing laws and the House Building Maintenance Act, but you have allowed the owner of residential buildings to completely amend this law. You allow them to make rules among themselves, the rules of the owner of the dwellings, and to change those rules to the jurisdiction of the living community, to change the way they decide on all important issues. It is not true that there has to be a more absolute majority in the construction or upgrade, no more than half, housing owners can agree to make the decision by simple majority. I can figure out what the quorum is going to be. I can make a deal. They can agree to make a minority loan, not a majority decision. So, you have derivated the entire law to this member and you are putting into a situation that every building in Serbia will have different rules. So who's capable of following the rules of every building that's different from the rules that apply to another building? There's no point in passing this law if anyone can determine their own rules as they please. You don't have a minimum. We're asking this amendment for a minimum, and by doing so, they can decide for themselves what they want. So, you brought the layman, and the citizens are the laymen, that everyone has to take a lawyer so they can participate in making the rules. I, as a lawyer, do these things, it's not clear to the citizens. Be assured that the one that's a little vispered in the apartment building will say – rules must be made, rules must be adopted unanimously, here, we have prepared everything according to the law, decided by the majority. Citizens do not distinguish the simple majority, the qualified majority, the two-thirds majority, the three-quarters majority. You've completely derogated yourself. There's no point in passing this law unless you accept our amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11473	Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11474	The rules of the owner are laid down unanimously. This is very important, because all the rules that are adopted in the housing communities must be adopted unanimously. They must at the same time, by making such rules, respect the obligations prescribed by law and, among other things, in this Article 11. So it also refers to maintenance, and it also applies to the damage done to third parties, but the point is that here we don't go to most or quorum, but to the rules, because they're very important, it has to be a unanimous decision. All owners must agree to what is put into the rules.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11475	The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic, by amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11476	Minister, I'm asking you to understand this in your best interest. I don't think you know Serbia and that you obviously don't move through Serbia. Do you know that citizens don't understand this subject, that they don't know what the laws say? They're laymen. If you're in the building, since you wrote the law, you can list everything in your building and tell them – we have to make the rules by law, the rules are passed unanimously, here's my lawyer's written the rules, so to speak. People don't understand what it says. Don't make everyone in this country take a lawyer so they can get to the rules. You're allowing fraud to come to the point that most can be simple, that it doesn't have to be two-thirds, what you yourself prescribed by the Oversight Act, that credit borrowing doesn't have to be qualified most. They'll make a deal, someone'll plant them a text. Who can understand and read this? Why are you doing this? What's the law for? Why not write in one sentence – every living community should make rules. So let those people make the rules as they please and do as they please. Here, let them unanimously make the rules. Why did you make all this clear? Why do we have 100 pages of the law here, if 100 pages of the law can be changed by the rules of the owners themselves? Then you say – since it is a large text, it should not be published on the ad board. It doesn't have to be published, it's a problem that there are rules published on the advertising board that everyone in the building knows what those rules say. I don't think this makes any sense. Don't just stubbornly hold your attitude now because you wrote it like that. This congregation serves to be heard and that we can respect the arguments of the other side. It's just that this is reasonable what we're proposing. Let the rule be two-thirds minimum, they can sharpen. Let the rules be as they are by law, they can sharpen them themselves, not derogate them completely. So there's no imperative norm.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11477	Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11478	I don't think you should underestimate, first of all, the citizens or the citizens of this country. You also said when we introduced an electronic building permit, that no one living in Serbia would understand it and no one would be able to get an electronic building permit at all – you do not know what Serbia looks like. Let me tell you something. (Nenad Konstantinovic, from the scene: It is not true. ) So that's how you talked about the electronic building permit, so now we have 2016 as the best year in the issue of electronic building permits for example. And you're also saying that someone wants something to cheat on. It's very interesting that you all allegedly support the introduction of a certain order into everything that hasn't been introduced in the past 10, 20 years, and then when it comes to introducing order, then nothing is right. Some things have to be precise. They were made by this very law. Everything you say, you say the words of deception and everything else, it really doesn't stand. After all, law enforcement will show. We're going to talk to Parliament and committees about what the effects of this law look like, so we're going to have a chance to say then whether what you're saying is what you're saying, or whether the law is going to apply because, as we've been helping and training for all previous laws, we're going to do this just in order to finally have arranged housing as it is, I'd say, everywhere in the world, and unfortunately it's not still with us.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11479	Well, the amendment, the word has been given by the People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11480	I really don't see why we don't go out and why we don't know when the rules of the owner can't be applied, or what the law prescribes as a mandatory minimum. Such as taking a credit obligation for a residential community or having a shared property. I believe there is really no reason not to accept the amendments submitted by this parliamentary group. With that in mind, we have some similar amendments later in the text of the law. But here, the rules of the owner are one other thing that's interesting. You give one freedom to the living community, which is extremely commendable, means that it regulates its relations within the law and the legal framework, and we welcome that. However, I would return you to Article 15, which we had previously conducted dialogue and to which you persistently avoid giving me an answer. Citizens' associations are set up by free will, and here you impose a housing community by law. How can you apply regulations in the association of citizens to the living community when you impose legislation here - citizens' associations are established by free will, and I welcome that already two members are again affirming this free will. But you have all these standards, I must admit, in college.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11481	On behalf of members 18th and Article 18th of the amendment, MP Gordana Komic submitted. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11482	Another member with a perimeter register of residential communities that shouldn't be. Thus, in two short positions this law says – the local self-government unit runs the register of residential communities, in the further text of the register, and organises the work of the register according to its territorial jurisdiction and in accordance with its powers. The competent municipal, i.e. the city administration shall designate an employed person to run the register, in the following text, the registrar. Yesterday I spoke of normative optimism and my participation in the discussion will only apply to prove how harmful this normative optimism is. When you put into the law that local self-government will run the register, they will have to lead it in accordance with their powers. But with what, but with mine? With her not currently in power to run the housing register. It's got a home building register, it's got a form that hasn't been established for life. So local self-government needs to know that every local self-government has to have an organized register of residential communities. And this second attitude says - the competent municipal, or construction office determines the employee who will run the register. It's that normative excess language in the law. What do we want with this law? You want us to finally know how many residential communities there are. How many congregations there are in Serbia since we don't know that now. The deadline for this, I know the sublaws, the way this is going to work, who's going to do it. You said you were organizing training. Who's going to do the training? Who are you training? People in local self-governments or those who at least occasionally engage in residential communities will not be as applicable as it says. That's the only reason I don't want to write at all, if it can't be applied.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11483	Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11484	By law on local self-government, housing issues are in the jurisdiction of local self-government. Secondly, local self-government will run the register, and uniquely, as seen in the later members, so the unification of all this is done by the Republic Geodetic Institute. In transitional and final terms, we have a 12-month deadline. I think that in the principle debate it was you who asked – and how many of these congregations do we have, etc. Now we'll finally know what we actually have in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11485	Thank you. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojičić, Maja Vidinović, Goran Jesic, Balša Bozovic, Natasa Vukkovic, Tomislav Žigmanov, Mr Alekandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic and Veroljub Stevanović submitted to the 18th amendment. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11486	Yes, in Article 18(1), it is our proposal to add "City municipality" after the word "local self-government unit". Here, we were talking about a large, obviously extensive job that needs to be done by the register at the estimate of a really large number of residents' congregations. We thought it was quite logical to bring in the city's municipalities, 17 of them in the city of Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis also with urban municipalities. They are organized precisely to bring the city's municipalities closer to the citizens and this is a job that I'm sure these units will be doing in the largest cities. I don't think it makes sense for all 17 of Belgrade's city municipalities to do that. I'm sure they'll dislocate those responsibilities to city halls. That's why we made this proposal, and we think it's quite logical. I don't know why the promoter didn't accept that in response, assuming he would transfer jurisdiction. But I don't think there was any reason why this article wasn't exactly about the fact that in these three largest cities there are urban municipalities that will do the most effectively.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11487	Thank you. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by National MP Branka Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a national MP, Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11488	Thank you. This amendment already mentions Article 18, which stipulates that the local self-government unit is run by a register of residential communities, I wanted to propose that the register, following the protection of particularly sensitive personality data such as the unique home number of citizens, be published on the Internet presentation of units of local self-government. The amendment was rejected on the grounds that it would not be accepted because the authority for the public availability of the data was entrusted with the Republic of Geodesy. Please, you can't trust anyone with access to the data. The law on free access to information of public importance says that any citizen of any authority may request any paper and document he owns. So the unit of local self-government that some paper owns can't say -- you know what, we own it, but you're asking another organ, because they own it, too, but it's bound to betray it. I see no reason why the register could not be published at the same time at the National Geodesy Office, but also at the local self-government unit team, because it will be more transparent. When you look for information about your location on the website of the Republic Geodetic Institute, it will be buried in the sea and the mass of other data and you will find it much harder to find. It is natural for every citizen to look for some information about a residential community to start the first search from an internet presentation of his unit of local self-government. Otherwise, it can be executed in the pursuit of jurisdiction, because not everyone is under the influence of who's in charge of what. In that sense, I am disappointed that this is not recognized as a need, and I would ask one more time to consider that this amendment is accepted, because I do not see that there is some terrible reason why this would not be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11489	Thank you. On behalf of the above members of the 19th and the 19th amendment, MP Gordana Komic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Dr Ana Stevanović submitted to Article 19 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk emissary, Ana Stevanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11490	Thank you, Chairman. I'm not really sure the promoter even read my amendment, and here's why I'm saying it. In the first sentence of the proposal for an amendment to Article 2, which is proposed by the amendment, it is explicitly stated that in the registration procedure, the registrar deals exclusively with the examination of formal conditions for entry, by more precisely defining the same formal conditions. The Proposer, in his explanation, states that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the registration procedure does not determine the rights and obligations, but only the fulfilment of the formal conditions, which was just the case in the amendment that I proposed. Is this some type of response given when the Government rejects amendments by order, or did the promoter simply miss the explanation of this amendment with someone else? I would like to thank you in advance for your answer and further clarification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11491	Thank you. National MPs Nenad Canak, Mr Goran Cabradi, Marinika Tepic, Nada Lazic and Olena Papuga submitted to the 19th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Dusan Pavlovic and Parliament member Branka Stamenković submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Dusan Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11492	I've filed this amendment that abolishes housing registration fees as a residential community for a very simple reason. Because this is a property issue, and citizens are already paying property taxes, so all state affairs, all public administration jobs that concern the property issue are already paid by that tax. I don't see any reason why citizens would have to again pay some kind of taxi fee for something they already pay through property tax. In the explanation of the government which it rejected this amendment, it is said – the amendment is not accepted for the reasons why the intended fees do not represent a significant cost for members of the residential communities. So now the government knows what's a significant cost to members of the housing community and what's not. This is quite unserious, since for different people the cost may be different, although it is the same sum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11493	Thank you. My colleague Stamenkovic, before I give you my word, let me get this straight. A colleague, Pavlovic, took advantage of the time as an amendment promoter. You, of course, can speak by amendment and use the time of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11494	I'd just add, it's two kinds of taxes, one goes to local self-government, and the other goes to the Republic Geodetic Institute. It is explained in the explanation that it is the compensation for the real costs of keeping the register. My question for the minister is, and I pray that it does not eliminate, but to answer – what are the real costs of running those registers? In order to run the register, you need a computer and an employee, we already have that, which will type in the data, and then you're going to type in the register to send it to the Republic Geodetic Institute, where there's also a computer and already a working worker that unites it all. Please, what is the cost of keeping a register that is otherwise not covered by the salary of those who should be taking care of it? Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11495	Thank you. On behalf of members 20th and Article 20th of the amendment, MP Gordana Komic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was tabled by National MP Branka Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11496	Of these 33 amendments I have submitted, perhaps at least one minister will honor me with an answer. Otherwise, I'll already think he doesn't love me. Article 20, again, is about transparency on the content of the register where I suggested that data collected and recorded be published, but that sensitive personal data, such as JMBG and the number of travel documents, should be protected when it comes to foreign citizens. The amendment was rejected with a completely incorrect explanation, which says that what was proposed by law does not conflict with the provisions of Article 14. The Personal Data Protection Act. I mean, that's true, but it is contrary to Article 14 of another law, which is the Law on free access to information of public importance, which in paragraph 1, says that I cannot publish JMBG numbers because it would injure the right to privacy. I think there is one misunderstanding in the government in general, not only when it comes to this ministry, when it comes to these two laws, the Law on the Protection of Personality Data and the Law on Free Access to Information of Public Matter. They are mutually conditioned and can never be read individually, but must pay attention to what cases that the right weighs, the right to privacy or the right to the availability of information of public importance. The register and the public records in this law are defined as public and must be so. I am very unhappy that this amendment has not been accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11497	Thank you. Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11498	I am very pleased that this law has been in public debate for a year, which 27 institutions gave a positive opinion, which the Commissioner for Public Information and Personality Data Protection, which takes care of both one law and the other, informed us on November 7th that from the point of view of trustee jurisdiction there is no objection to the text of the draft law delivered. So now I'm going to give you full information. On October 20th, the trustee received a complete draft of the law, he gave his opinion. We accepted all the suggestions the trustee gave, informed him of it on November 2nd, and then he answered us on November 7th that from the point of view of the trustee's jurisdiction there were no objections to the submitted text of the bill, but you know how the trustee takes care of such matters. Therefore, one reason why your amendment, among other things, was not accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11499	Thank you. According to the amendment, MP Marijan Risticevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11500	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't think the amendment should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11501	Thank you, colleague Rističević. The 20th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Before we move on to the amendment to Article 20, you asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11502	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have been trying for days to warn you that in Article 106(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, - that during the speech, MPs or other participants in the search are not allowed to throw, or interfere with the speaker in another way. Like any other job that threatens freedom of speech. Freedom of speech is constitutionally guaranteed. Those who turned their backs should know it's democratic fluid. Freedom of choir and speech. So unless they want to listen to what others say, at least they don't have the right to have me in that right that I'm guaranteed by the Constitution. I think they can turn their backs on me, I didn't spit on anyone, I didn't curse anyone, I didn't send anyone to tell them where, everything they did to me, I didn't do to them, and I didn't think to do it to them. Are they ashamed of their actions? I, I can't know that, so for that reason, they turn their backs on me and that's how they interfere with my freedom of speech, but, look, I'm ashamed that they're not ashamed of anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11503	Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) Once again I will repeat on Article 20 of the amendment, MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojičić, Maja Vidinović, Goran Jesic, Balša Bozovic, Natasa Vukkovic, Tomislav Žigmanov, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic and Veroljub Stevanović submitted to the 20th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostic, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić, Marija Janjusevic, Zoran Radojčić and Dr. Dragan Vesovic together submitted to the 20th amendment. The word is a folk letter by Marija Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11504	Thank you. So we asked to delete the words “the organizer of professional management”. So we have nothing against a professional manager but as a natural person because the introduction of a professional management organisation has no economic justification and because the introduction of such an organisation rather than the signing of a contract directly with a professional manager increases costs. It provides jobs for party personnel and related persons. In this way, the cost of citizens is actually parasitic, the party system is intruded, and it is all in the service of enriching party personnel and not party staff engaged through best friends and relatives. It would be really interesting to do a research in which all the way party personnel have been employed, as you have all thought, given that it is still in force to ban employment in the public sector. It also says in its explanation that professional managers are scheduled to carry out their work engagement through the organizers of professional management. So you admit it yourself. Only, given that our amendment has not been accepted with what I finally have to agree with, that the acceptance of the amendment would be left out an important piece of information about the engagement of a professional manager, i.e. an important piece of information that still takes off the cock and skin from the back of the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11505	National MP Sonja Pavlovic submitted to the 20th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's MP Sonja Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11506	Well, I almost had no intention of commenting on this amendment for a little while, but now I see that maybe I should. So, those 27 institutions with the bill that controlled this bill seem to have not been closely controlled or sufficiently detailed, because in that sense, the error of the type of copier, or a word abroad that has no context of this attitude, could not have gone past them. So I want to talk a little bit to the citizens of Serbia and say that they have been adopted, not even ten percent of the law, it seems a lot, but mostly they are, a good part of them are spelling mistakes and copies of mistakes. I will no longer bear such amendments personally, because we have the illusion that many amendments have been accepted and we are complicit with the government in the adoption of bad laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11507	On behalf of the above members of the 21st and Article 21st Amendment, MP Gordana Komic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostic, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić, Marija Janjušević, Zoran Radojić and Dr. Dragan Vesović together submitted to the 21st Amendment. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11508	Article 21 introduces the obligation of RGZ to run a single central public electronic database where data on residential communities from all registers on the territory of the Republic of Serbia are pooled, where you predict that the exchange of data and documents and submissions between units of local self-government and institutions will be carried out electronically. Now I'm asking you, how do you think he's practically coming back to life? Only the ministry when the debate was launched in the law principle said there was no record of how many residents have been formed in Serbia so far. The Republic Geodetic Institute is already overloaded. You are well aware that the commitments of the RGZ still have outstanding items from 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016, and a World Bank loan has been taken to deal with all these obligations for the purpose of hiring a person on temporary and occasional business. So I really don't see how you think a GZ who can't do a job that's already been his current job description, for which he took a loan from the World Bank, to hire additional persons in the RCG can now fulfil this additional obligation. And, that additional obligation, means the management of this unique register will go on the burden of Serbian citizens, or through the budget will be paid, because I don't see how you'll settle otherwise, because you'll have to surely hire a huge number of new people who would do it in the RGZ or you'll only have one dead letter on paper. So you're making the law aware that it's never going to apply. I would like to hear the answer as to how you imagined that the repetitive GZ is already overloaded and cannot fulfil what its obligation is, even though it took credit for the performance from 2007 to 2016, it has unresolved items, now it will be able to implement this new obligation. I really don't think that's possible, and I hope you're not planning on putting in extra charge to do this, or to keep the dead letter on paper again, and you're raising the credit, and there's no effect.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11509	Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11510	I understand that a lot of things are impossible for you, that's true, but so far we've been to everything we've said about construction from permits and so on. Speaking of RGZ, there is already an address register, a real register of objects, is this hated organization by you, the World Bank, and the government of the Republic of Serbia has concluded an arrangement. It is a project to improve the land administration within which there is also reforming the RGZ and the Register of Objects. The amount is $40 million and the loan is used exactly by the dynamics that are planned, not a day late. In that sense, it's going to be a register of objects, and I think it's about time we had it. That's something we really missed.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11511	Thank you. By amendment, MP Srdjan Nogo.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11512	So, just to be clear, we pulled 40 million dollars from the World Bank and here, we have ten years of unsolved items of the RGZ. So, the fact that we pulled out and we started to do it didn't work out, and now we think we're going to be able to add another commitment to the RGZ and it's going to be realized. It's not a question of what this ministry has done or what this ministry hasn't done. Here is a specific question of the Republic Geodetic Institute, are there unsolved items for the last 10 years or aren't there, or what did you do with those 40 million dollars? So, you're realizing that as soon as these unsolved items exist, this loan has not produced results and effects so far. Tell me, how do you think the additional obligation of the Republic Geodetic Institute can be carried out and carried out? I don't really believe it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11513	Thank you. To Article 21. The amendment was brought together by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslava Alexic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11514	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, representatives of the Ministry, simply, we think that it is better to keep a record of the housing communities run by the Agency for Economic Registers, because the Agency for Economic Registers is leading and registering, not only by legal persons in the area of economy and entrepreneurs, but also by registering the Association of Citizens. They have software that runs identical records. If it were in the Republic Geodetic Institute, there is a need to create new software, these are some new costs. So, the Agency for Business Registers has experience in keeping these records, having software, doing it well, and we have one verified solution and people who know how to do this job. We therefore proposed that the Agency for Business Registers keep records, not the Republic Geodetic Institute. You've, of course, answered us that it's not good, because these waters are complex, the Republic Geodetic Institute also runs complex databases. I agree they're leading. I don't agree with them doing it the best possible way. All citizens have problems with the Catastre in this country and you know the problems. This should be arranged and arranged, but software exists in the APR and there is no need to make new costs.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11515	National MP Branko Stamenkovic submitted to the 21st amendment. The word has a national MP, Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11516	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for joining the dialogue and giving a reply to the previous amendment that I have explained. This amendment is similar. It also concerns transparency and was also rejected with the same explanation. Now it will serve as an example for me to explain where we don't seem to understand each other. Of course the Commissioner didn't have any objections to the bill that came to us. I didn't have any objections about how some of the things that concern his intelligence were formulated. For example, this says - the right to access information of public importance is achieved in accordance with a law governing access to information of public importance. That means I can write a request and ask for information and get it. However, my amendments want to improve this, to be this, to make the work of all institutions more transparent and accessible to citizens under these laws. I suggest that registers be published, so that information can be found on the mouse click, not that I have to write an application under the law and wait 15 days to get the information. In that sense, your arguments that reject my amendments are not in line with these two laws, and I am confident that the Commissioner would tell you the same thing when it comes to the arguments that you reject my amendments, not as far as the whole of the law is concerned. I hope we understand each other a little bit better about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11517	According to the amendment, the word has been given by MP Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11518	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, perhaps I would accept this proposal from the "Enough Drink" group just to get out. But there's one flaw. So those who are sensitive to the use, allegedly for the use of other people's data, have been spinning my JMBG for days and my data has been placed and requested notice of me from the prosecution, courts, etc. and are signed by the signing of the parliamentary group "Enough Drinked". That's why I don't understand that you're on one side sensitive to data, and on the other hand, no matter what you're not legal or physical, you're looking for proper confirmations, so they don't bother in the future, they can come here, I'll give them that information. They don't have to unpunish my home number. Here's what they were looking for. I took it out because I have the right to get it, they don't. Well, those of the parliamentary group "Never Enough" come and make sure they don't need to abuse my data. Why isn't the trustee, whom I'm calling because of what he unpunishedly allowed to use my data, the conspirator, the camouflaged political insinuation and activist, not reacting, that's a question for him. But if they want information about me, I'll give them these certificates anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11519	Thank you. (Saša Radulovic, from town: Replica. You have no basis for replication. You can get the word after the amendment. (Saša Radulovic, from the post: The Parliament Group mentioned. ) Mr. Risticevic spoke of his reasons for not accepting. (Saša Radulovic, from the post: The parliamentary group is mentioned. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11520	Thank you. There's been a series of lies, so I've got to talk to the team about it. So, the DJB parliamentary group never publishes any parent numbers for anyone, nor will we ever do that, so I don't understand why this is necessary. But it is obvious that it is necessary, since along with these untruths, there are truths that anyone in the Parliament's group has ever spat on anyone in the congregation, that he has cursed anyone, and these untruths are repeated over and over again, but it will not become true by repeating. We simply don't do things like that, nor will we ever do things like that. I call on all MPs to also adhere to these rules and not to publish other people's birth numbers, not to publish lies about people, not to lie to Serbian citizens that anyone has spit on them, cursed them, etc. That's not how it's supposed to go. However, it is obvious that we want to get away from the essence, the issues of transparency, the discussions on this law, and now we are wasting our time discussing things that have nothing to do with what we have to discuss today. And the bottom line is the disastrously bad housing law, which should literally destroy all of Serbia, influence every citizen and impose some obligations that are extremely inappropriate in one very casual and inappropriate way. That's what we're talking about, and we're going to keep talking about it, and these bribery and untruths that are being placed on Serbian citizens all the time, we're going to answer to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11521	Thank you. Right on line, MP Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11522	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have achieved the right to replica in the same way as the previous speaker has exercised the right to his own. I didn't turn my back on him, I listened carefully, if I had anything to hear, and I heard that he denied using my personal data, JMBG, and that he was looking for information about me at the D.A.'s office. It's a newspaper for me. I will certainly obtain that document, a copy of that document, and bring it to the National Assembly, all with his signature. I wonder if he who has now denied doing what he has done will he resign in that case? I believe he won't. If necessary, he'll say he's never heard of an e-business firm, e-market, e-capital. He will say that he was never a bankruptcy manager in 15 firms at the same time, at 15 different destinations, one man manages 15 companies. If necessary, he will say that he also registered a political party, although he is not, even though he works as an association of citizens. He's willing to do literally anything to regain power and chair in which I, unlike him, have never been. I offered the gentleman mentioned a TV duel to explain the difference between his virtual economy and my real economy and to try the viewers in the TV duel to show the difference between what can be and what can never be, which is virtual. Unlike him, I'm in real economy and I don't do the economy of a guy I put in spring crumbs, and then in May I start picking up pigs, and somewhere in the fall I'm going to pick up ham. That's not the kind of economy I run, nor will I lead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11523	Thank you. (Saša Radulovic, from town: Replica. ) Obviously, we are away from the subject. (Saša Radulovic, from town: Replica. You should have done that before you gave him your word. I cannot allow you or Mr. Rističević to discuss this topic further. I think it's important that we go back to the amendment debate. Now I'm going to give article 112 five-minute break. Thank you. [[After a break.]] We're going back to work. The People's MP Gordana Comic submitted to the title above Articles 22 and 22 of the amendment. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11525	Article 22, which proposes to be deleted, has a rubrum – launch of the registration procedure. It is very short and yet very illustrating for normative optimism and for the fact that the law will not be applied, and it is said that the registration procedure is initiated by applying to the register by the administrator or other law of the authorised person, and can also be initiated under official duty. It is written in Article 22 which speaks of the initiation of the registration procedure, after we have, hopefully, explained that it is registered in the authority of local self-government, that local self-government determines the person who is the registrar. This member in one position, when the administrator submits a registration to the register, is until then fine. Who's a legally authorized person? If he's an emergency manager, he's the same manager. So, the normative optimism of the first species, and who only initiates the procedure of official duty? Who's that face? Official duty still appears in Articles 24, 35, without the law showing who it is that can be initiated under official duty to apply for the registration procedure of the resident community, or the congregation of residents. Who's that face? That's my question for Article 22, since I don't see it in the law and it would be good for you to answer how you defined who's running an official application for registration procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11526	Thank you. The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostic, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić, Marija Janjušević, Zoran Radojić and Dr. Dragan Vesović. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11527	We also suggest that Article 22 be deleted. The same as the other MPs, we ask ourselves – who is the person who, under official duty, initiates this registration procedure? The minister could do us a favor, given that several opposition MPs from different opposition groups were asking an identical question. We repeat once again and argue that this law is harmful, that this law is contrary to the interests of Serbian citizens, that the consequences of this law will be felt by almost all Serbian citizens and that it is an additional burden on the largely exhausted budgets each family has, each individual in Serbia. Please, once again, do not impose additional pressure on the citizens, because this cannot be sustained, no electricity excises, no property taxes, no other small taxes that you're making massively higher, and you're reducing wages, you're reducing pensions. In the end, none of your successful reforms will survive. This introduces an additional load. So, you're also burdening on the official duty of filing that registration application, there will be one tax, forcing the housing community to organise itself as an association of citizens, which is contrary to the purpose of the Association of Citizens. Citizens' associations are set up by free will, and here you form a residential community by this law itself, and you apply the rules relating to associations, which I think is a questionable and on the surface of everything you impose some forced obligation, registration under official duty. If you wanted to regulate these relationships, but if you had left a higher dose of freedom for the citizens, that they could initiate the procedure themselves, and that you would encourage them to be applicants, to have an interest, to have an initiative to file an appropriate application, to register in such a way, it would be fine, but so restrictive interpretation of the law, such imperative standards that regulate a serious sphere of privacy, because do not forget the residential community is the place of residence, it's our last oasis and defense of privacy, and I think it's inadmissible.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11528	On behalf of members 23 and Article 23, the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Comic. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11529	Article 23 shall continue to develop the registration procedure and shall describe in detail the initiation of the application procedure. In his first position, he writes what should be the content of the application submitted for the registration of the Assembly by the administrator, by the law of the authorised person, for whom we do not know who it might be, and by official duty. The final position, i.e. the final position, states - the competent municipal, or city administration that conducts the registration procedure, shall be obliged to provide documents referred to in Article 2 of this Article under official duty in accordance with the law governing the general administrative procedure, i.e. that only the information necessary for its identification and documents confirming the facts not subject to official records may be required by the applicant. Therefore, in this position, unrelated to Articles 22, 24 and 35 later, mentions the procurement under official duty, since on 8 June this year, fortunately, the General Administrative Procedure Act entered into force, which in front of everyone from the state administration, local self-government, wherever they are, obliges citizens not to be harassed by the submission of documents over and over again, but rather that the authorities of the state are obliged to exchange among themselves. I'm going back to Article 22. Is that the same official person under the official duty of Article 22? Article 22 does not speak of the fact that the state authorities shall, by official duty, exchange information. Article 22 says the registration process is initiated by applying to the registry by the administrator, by a law of the authorised person, and can also be initiated under official duty. Who's running the application on official duty? Article 23 refers to the exchange of documents for which local self-government and any authority of the administration to which a citizen is addressed under the Law on Administrative Procedures of June of this year give to each other, not to harass citizens. It doesn't look the same. If it's the same, it's no good. If it's not the same, you have to tell me who's running the official duty application for registration of the tenant's congregation?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11530	Thank you. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the National Assembly Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostic, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić, Marija Janjušević, Zoran Radojić and Dr. Dragan Vesović together submitted the 23rd amendment. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11531	I think the bill promoter has failed to define this position of the law in a valid manner, because the documentation certified by the householder's assembly at its session cannot be certified either in front of a public notary or in front of another body engaged in the overing of the signature. How can they hand over certified documentation? This would mean that what they adopted at the household congregation, that all together, all those persons present at the session of the residential community, would go together to some notary or together in the community and verify the signatures there, and that they would surrender. I think the slip was made here, and I'd just like it to be straightened out.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11532	Thank you. The 23rd amendment was submitted by National MP Branka Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a national MP, Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11533	Thank you. This is another member mentioning these two administrative fees for keeping a register, one which should be paid at the expense of units of local self-government, and the other as compensation for keeping a unique record of the Republic Geodesy Institute. As in previous cases, and in this case my amendment suggests erasing these two fees, i.e. The rules that housing communities would be obliged to pay in the first place these taxes. The amendment was rejected, on the grounds that it was only a compensation for the real costs of keeping the register and a unique record. I have already asked the Minister's request to explain to me what are the real costs of keeping the register and the unique records that otherwise exceed the salary of a local self-government employee who will be determined to run the register and exceed the salary of an employee at the Geodetic Institute who will keep this unique record. Because, realistically, keeping a register comes down to – I get the data that I need to type into a computer in some exele table and then send it to the Republic Geodetic Service that has even less work to do, which is just to collect all these registers of all the local self-governments and put them in the same place. Otherwise, this law is a terrible cost to the tenants and more words about it in the next instance. But I'm asking for this answer, to be clear to me, I don't understand what the real costs of keeping a register are. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11534	Thank you. According to the amendment, Sasa Radulovic, the People's MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11535	I'm interested in the motionary telling us how many housing communities he expects, so we can somehow make a reckoning about how many taxis they expect. So, did you do some analysis when you were writing the law, doing these taxes and stuff? How many really housing communities do you expect to be registered? Somehow, it seems to me that it would be natural for you to write the law and give an explanation that these fees won't be much of a burden, so we can make some small reckoning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11536	According to the amendment, MP Marijan Risticevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11537	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I mean, this smile says it all this way. Therefore, Article 23 also speaks of the JMBG data. That's what it wasn't. That's what they said was a lie. Here it writes – asking for data to be delivered, Marijan Risticevic, born then and then, JMBG 0103958... I'm not going to, for one more person, this one from the district public prosecutor's office four from this National Assembly, the signature of the one who smiled very badly, and I'm willing to resign if the person wants to take them. But he can't tell me I'm lying, and it insults my dignity. For that reason, I don't want to accept this kind of amendment. Thank you. (Saša Radulovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11538	You can't get a replica, you haven't mentioned one moment. Mr. Risticevic is talking about the reasons why he does not accept the amendment... (Saša Radulovic, from the place: He spoke of me personally. He didn't say a word about the amendment. No, it's not about you. Maybe you recognized each other. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: I did not recognize myself. He was talking about me. ) Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Srdjan Nogo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11539	The Honorable Chairman, I think they're injured. 104 and 106. In fact, article 106 says the speaker can only talk about the point of the agenda on which the search is conducted, and Article 104 points to the right to replication. I think the previous speaker perverted the amendment's announcement and continued the debate that started before we had a session interruption, which is the opposite of intent again, because you thought you'd avoid that debate further, and that's why you'd set the end. I think we're going back to the same subject without need, but, of course, since you didn't warn him and return him to the amendment he was talking about, I think you violated the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11540	Thank you. I think I did not violate the Rules of Procedure, but that Mr. Risticevic, in a broader context, looked at and talked about reasons for not accepting the amendments. When speaking of the right to replica, Article 104(3) shall be decided by the President of the National Assembly, in particular by the Chairman, on the application of the rights laid down in Article 1 and 2 of this Article. Mr. Radulovich, do you want the word after the amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11541	Since you didn't give the replica unfounded, I have to use the amendment. Yes, I've filed charges against a gentleman and criminal charges and that, we're looking for information, but that doesn't mean we're publishing any private information anywhere, and that's what I'm talking about. Anyway, let me get back to this question about the amendment. I'm interested, as far as the Minister is concerned, in telling us how many housing communities are expecting? Because when they wrote the law, they must have figured out somewhere how many housing communities needed to be created, so let's see how many Serbian citizens needed to guess and how many taxes would this be? Since we're going to multiply with each other, let's see how much costs they think they're burdening the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11542	Thank you. Mr. Nogo, I've just missed asking you if you'd like the National Assembly in voting day to make a statement about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) I thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11543	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to be precise, if there's been an advertised violation of the Rules of Procedure based on my statement on the amendment, and the reason why I didn't want to accept the amendment is now the speaker... These aren't questionnaires... (Saša Radulovic, from the post: Which member? ) Previous speaker, Article 106... I think this throw is a little tasteless, but that's talking about him, not me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11544	Mr. Risticevic, please continue to explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11545	I explain that the speaker can only talk about the point of the agenda on which the search is conducted, that is Article 106(1), I will certainly not miss the chance to indicate which member is injured, but these are not questionnaires. The speaker has been talking about this for the second time, instead of explaining the amendments and the discussion on the amendment, let me ask you, you know, how many living communities there will be, etc. It is not an integral part of the story of the amendment, and they thus abuse the right to speak of the amendment. I would never blame them if I didn't mind. Approximatelyly, I allow the chairman to be tolerated and that the opposition has the right to make its remarks, and even to comment on how they were neglected on television, in direct television, etc., etc. We've heard a lot of things here. Mr. Chairman, in the future, when someone advertises a breach of the Rules of Procedure and has double criteria, you or someone else apply Article 103(7) and (8) of the Rules of Procedure to me. I respect that you are liberal to those who have turned their backs on us. Keep it up. They can turn their backs on me, I can't, because I can experience what I've already experienced, and they can turn to their country, to their voters, I'll guard the dignity of my constituents. Unless they want to safeguard the dignity of their constituents, I keep their dignity, since they obviously can't. I'm not asking to vote on this in voting day, and I just want us to have a balanced relationship. So, what they're asking for for themselves, I guess that's allowed for me, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11546	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. So, you don't want the National Assembly in voting day to plead for the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure. I think it's quite clear to you, and it's quite evident that as chairman, I'm trying to be tolerated and I don't have double arches to the representatives of the position and opposition. Mr. Radulovich, you answered. The basis of your call? (Saša Radulovic, from the post: By amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11547	You've allowed a replica here within the Rules of Procedure, but what do we do, that's it. Anyway, I would like to repeat the question that the minister has persistently avoided, which is -- since these members are introducing some fees that they need and paying the citizens of Serbia, then I am interested in the minister telling us, when they wrote the law and prescribed these taxes, how many housing communities think they will be formed in the Republic of Serbia to see how much additional impose they have imposed on the citizens of Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11548	On behalf of members 24th and Article 24th of the amendment, MP Gordana Komic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11549	Thank you. Rubrum is the launch of an official procedure and the member is very short and reads: the registration procedure is initiated by official duty if such registration is provided for by this law. Of course, I suggest that this is deleted because the whole law is such that it should never enter into force, and it is important because in relation to Articles 23 and 22, where you only stated in Article 22 that the registration procedure is initiated by applying to the register by the administrator or by another law of the authorised person. My question is, what other legal person is authorized, and can be initiated by official duty? Article 24 says it is launched if such registration is provided by this law. Who's on official duty? Who is this person who, under official duty, is running an application to register a housing unit? That's important because I don't see it in the members later. In Article 23, which precedes this, only the authorities of the state administration and local self-government, which are obliged to serve good citizens, are not harassing them to bring all documents several times, but since June of the month, and that was good news for the citizens and I hope they will stay, are obliged to collect documents themselves. The registration application does not fall under such documents. She doesn't exist anywhere. Nowhere in the administration there is no application or documentation, because it is the beginning of which the residential community, which has chosen from a congregation of residents, who has chosen the manager, or a residential community that has failed to select the manager, has received a forced manager, so it initiates registration applications. Who does that on official duty?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11550	Thank you. The National Parliament of Alexander Chabrai submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the people's letter of Alexander Chabrai. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11551	Thank you. Well, here's what seems to be a few colleagues, and I'm joining here, and we're trying to keep getting an answer here to some questions that are not in any way explained in this bill. I think this silence is very ghastly to suit us, and I also very much regret the devastation of this in the hall today when it discusses the law regarding absolutely every citizen of Serbia, and it is very much about every citizen and who will put a lot of weight on the various ways of the citizens of Serbia, but good. Col. Comić has already read Article 24. I'll do it again. Therefore, the registration procedure shall be initiated on official duty if such registration is provided for by this law. I repeat what's already been said here several times today, and that's that you didn't predict who's doing this? Therefore, I have proposed an amendment with point 2 which reads: "The registration procedure under official duty is initiated by the local self-government unit, through the authorised person who will run the register, i.e. the registrar’. In view of the powers of local self-government, which is mentioned in Article 18 of this Bill and the authorisation of the registrant provided for in Article 19 of this proposal, this might be appropriate. However, I find it very interesting that this amendment of mine has been rejected, which is: the amendment is not accepted for reasons of legal and technical inaccuracies. Please, we're asking here how many times do I know who's running this procedure on official duty? I would rather say that the law in this respect is imprecise than that this amendment of mine was imprecise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11552	According to the amendment, the word has been given by MP Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11553	Madam Minister, I wouldn't doubt at all that through this law they should find work on certain points or something, and I won't doubt that you had any good intentions. I would say and compare it now if you wanted Serbia to look like Prince Milosevic's Street before New Year's Eve, but unfortunately, you're nowhere near it. As we go from one member to another, we see great problems. It seems to me that some members of the group will fight each other to the end, until it comes to an end. Good proof of that is also a member of the 24th. We now, given the proposal, have two other options. One option is to supplement this article with one attitude, and another variant of the amendment intervention was to delete Article 24 completely. And probably the best solution for this member would be to delete. We're going to have a problem here, because we don't know who's putting up with it, or who's running the procedure on official duty, or when, or why, or who's going to take it. It's a similar situation, here, now I can go back a little bit, and with Article 12 when it's said that the owner of a special piece of work in the building unless no one intervenes under official duty now to say, and threatens directly to his special housing unit, or perhaps threatens the lives of other citizens, he himself can remove these irregularities, or perform a certain construction intervention, I would say. Can you not see that there is a possibility of abuse? If we're going to have a professional manager, if we have the organs of the housing community, how come someone else's intervention? You slowly leave some other options from a member, that you are absolutely certain that this is good, as you said, you see Serbia's beautiful buildings, beautiful apartments, and when I asked you in the debate in principle when you think this law will give effect, you said – so as soon as we adopt it, it takes effect. I know when he gets into effect, but when you see beautiful buildings, painted buildings, new facades and everything? Indeed, it is unequivocally resulting from reading all the provisions of this law that several of the main motives were. You assume that many citizens in Serbia have no settled housing issue and that they use living space to rent. Of course, that should be taxed. No one escapes from that. Taxes must be paid. Tax is not a voluntary category. Tax is something that's mandatory. It's on the one hand, and on the other hand this fee and it's really going to be a lot of professional managers that are going to work, so registration at the Chamber of Commerce, so license and everything. These are all new, additional costs that you and I and all other citizens of Serbia will pay together from their resources. You have never thought about how and how to reduce, if there are opportunities, value added tax or something else, but you are thinking about how and how more funds from Serbian citizens can still be reached.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11554	On behalf of members 25th and Article 25th of the amendment, MP Gordana Komic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11555	Thank you. Rubrum is a note, and the member reads: “The entry of the note shall be made on the basis of application or on official duty, provided that the Registerer has knowledge of the facts and documents that are relevant to residential relations. “ If it is carried out on the basis of the application, then it was not the Registerer that came to know, but it was given an application by the warden or by the law of the authorised person. If it's official duty, then this member says that the one who acts on his official duty is not a registrar, but someone else, and it doesn't say who he is. Therefore, the observation is a fact that it is verifiable in relation to documents that are relevant to housing. It could be anything. He who runs the residential community, the tenant's congregation, says, makes a note and sends it and will repeat itself in article 35. Unnecessarily, there has been a lack of clarity, as the solutions proposed by this law have not been considered needlessly, and I will explain that to you on the next article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11556	Thank you. On behalf of the 26th and 26th Amendment, MP Gordana Komic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11557	Article 26. has a marginal way of submitting applications and in its three short positions talks about it - you submit the application in paper, electronic form and you refer to the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Signature. Why is the law unfounded? Because you didn't count on how long it took to do this. One working month is 168-165 hours. That's 10,000 minutes a month. How much do you appreciate it takes you a minute to process the submitted application electronically, paper, whatever you want? We can arrange for 15 minutes, if the paper comes, open the envelope, if it's electronic to log in, see who it is, etc. So 10,000 minutes of work has a local self-government of 10,000, just for the registrar to spend that's six hundred applications a month. So in one local self-government, hypothetically that all 10,000 minutes the registrator spends in local self-government, it spends 15 minutes on one application at a level, it cannot do more than six months, or 7,200 a year. Who's gonna do the rest and when? I had a similar discussion when there were endless extensions of passport validity, an extraordinary woman from the MUP, who was extremely busy. I asked her how many minutes would it take for a passport? If you have 200,000 passports, you have to spend some time on 200,000 passports, so here you have to spend some time signing up. All I'm asking you, or what I'm warning you about, is that if you have defined how they apply, that you have to have before it measured how much time we spend on these applications, how much will be reported, 100,000 communities? How much? Three million housing units have in Serbia 2.5 million have been inhabited. How long will it be? A hundred thousand if one can do 7,200 then you immediately realize how much time it takes, whatever you file, in writing, electronically, communicate any way you want? So, when I ask you who's doing the official duty? I'm asking that because it's going to ask someone else who doesn't call himself me, who's going to come to local self-government. When I ask you how long will it take us all to register? By taking into account that a local self-government can work 10,000 minutes a month. It's an ideal case, so all 10,000 minutes only work on applications that come in mail or electronic. That's what I've been asking you since the beginning of the principle debate, you can't change what we don't measure. In order for you to be able to change, we need to measure how much time it takes to change what we want to introduce into the Housing Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11558	Thank you. The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11559	Well, that's how I hear it. First, you write it all over, and then you participate in the debate in which you make certain proposals, etc., of course, criticism and certain proposals. Well, now I don't get it, if we adopt those suggestions, because then that means you're in agreement with the law? I don't think it's any problem, we can discuss all this for five days, it's quite clear to me that what's said is a democratically legitimate way of fighting politically, to write it out. I'm not just sure those who vote for you like to write in the amendment are deleted, but okay. When you mention this application in paper form, etc. First of all, it is very important to know that not all citizens have the ability to have an electronic signature and it is turned to them above all else. You can do it in paper form, you can do it electronically. So this article 26 concerns above all those who need to be given the opportunity to give their application in paper form. All of them, including sublegal acts and deadlines, are set exactly. I think you know that this ministry has not been late in any of its sublegal acts.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11560	By amendment, MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11561	Ten thousand minutes has the registrator available monthly. I don't know how close I am to explaining to you how much of a problem that is. I was illustrating with an extraordinary ministry lady who understood me, she says -- wait, I need a passport painting, so I can't paint 200,000 in a year. Ten thousand minutes at your disposal. I'm not talking about you adopting any of what I'm saying, but I'm asking you how are you gonna use that time? Are there 100,000 scheduled congregations to register? Do you know how many minutes it is to do? That's how you do it. How can I tell you, we can't remember. There are 100,000 applications to be registered in some registrar. It's a waste of time, how do you know how much time it takes? It's the only non-renewable resource. I'm not talking about who's going to vote for who, who's going to vote for whom they want, who I don't care about, I'm talking about that you've passed a law that's inadmissible because there are no basic answers to the provisions that change people's lives and change the work of local self-government. That's all I'm binding to a member on how to file applications. We can talk one forest, the other road, it's not a problem, it won't bring spare minutes to local self-government. And the obligation to measure it before it decides is reduced to how many working minutes you have a month, all to spend on registering. I even, and I'm against this whole law, because I think it's inapplicable, I want you to succeed in Serbia, to succeed in Serbia. Let me be against your strategy, but I want, if it's something good to do in Serbia. I'm asking you a very simple question, and I'm getting folklore.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11562	The word has the People's MP Katarina Rakic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11563	Thank you. I still haven't answered, although I still have a problem listening to this kind of debate. Here's 10,000 minutes, however calculated it is, in whatever way, it's certainly less than 10, 12 years when we had even three laws that tried to regulate this area, so they didn't do it. Now I really don't know why we should listen to such remarks? We've also listened to the Law on Planning and Construction, a problem that's been solved years ago, and look what we've managed to do in just a year, two of the application of this law. Now we're listening again to the same criticism from those who are such a problem, more specifically this problem has been trying to solve for 10, 12 years. Well, it's an honor to even have the courage to make one of these remarks. Let's get going, I'm always up for it, so we can fix something that's wrong, but now you're giving us objections to something you haven't been able to do in 12 years. And what a remark, a remark that you say is erased and you write nothing further. We're not going to accept something like this being erased, we're going to do it, so all 10,000 minutes, times the years as long as it takes, but we're going to do something, not ten years to erase and do nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11564	The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11565	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our SDS parliamentary group has submitted an amendment that I really cannot understand why it is not accepted since the General Administrative Procedure Act, and according to the litigation procedure, and according to the criminal procedure, it is known that when a document is submitted in the mail, the date of receipt is taken the day when the law was handed over. You allow the application to be submitted by mail, but you will not accept that the date on which the mail is submitted is the date of receipt, that is, the date of receipt, but when the mail is sent to the authority to register. The citizen cannot answer for whether the post office will be delivered for two, three, five or seven days. The deadline for a change and deadline for filing is 15 days. If the application is not submitted within 15 days, it shall be rejected as an untimely conclusion. Why do you make it impossible for applications to be submitted in the mail in time and in accordance with the laws that exist in this country? What kind of procedure comes out of the administrative procedure? You have a completely different norm compared to the General Administrative Procedure Act. On the other hand, I think you're humiliating, as a minister in the government, humiliating the MPs and humiliating the citizens of Serbia. You're humiliating because an hour of insistent MPs from other MPs' groups are asking you some questions and you don't want to answer any questions. I understand that you will not comment on every amendment, there are many, but you will not answer a specific question.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11566	By amendment of my colleague Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11567	Well, this is about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11568	No, no.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11569	I hope the Minister answers this, too. What it's like to talk to one another for an hour, and on the other hand we have eight representatives of the ministry and it's a resolute ministry, without one reply. So there's no debate in this assembly. Why are we here to discuss this, if the other side will keep quiet all the time? There's no point in having this debate. We're not having this debate over ourselves. We're taking the lead for the citizens and we'd be able to convince the other side to accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11570	My colleague Konstantinovic, I'm a bit of an I.D. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11571	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's very short again. I just have to note that it's a great shame that the amendment's proposing did not say what he suggested and he did not read the explanation that concludes why this should not be accepted. Also, that's why he's talking about some questions he's not answering. If all the questions are the quality of this exposure before and if the meaning is the same, then I don't really think it should be a waste of time. This can't be accepted and written why. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11572	The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11573	I didn't want to read this explanation, because it's embarrassing. I don't know why a SNS colleague calls me to read it. You answered that – the amendment is not accepted because Article 26. The bill makes the difference between paper, brackets, analogue and electronic in brackets, digital form of application. The paper form of the application is an analogue application? Where did you find the expression analog application to be filed in paper? That's why I don't read. I guess someone made a mistake. It doesn't make sense to embarrass the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11574	Members of the Parliament of the Dveri Group submitted to the 26th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11575	If I were to rely on this debate that lasted after the previous amendment, I would really like to find out what kind of paper or analogue form it is, that is, the form of the application, because Serbian law and Serbian legal order know the written application and do not know the paper application. Paper as a means is one thing, but it is known what application can be and only so far in the Serbian legal order, in front of all the authorities, there was written form. Paper can be a handkerchief, paper can be a newspaper, etc. etc, but it is known that the form is written. To resort to the whole debate, it is obvious that even the representatives of the authorities do not read these amendments, because I am simply incomprehensible to a short notice that he could demand that such an explanation be read, because it was really necessary to preserve the reputation and dignity of the ministry. What is very interesting is that the representatives of the ministry have no answer to any questions. I feel sorry for my fellow opposition who keep repeating, but unfortunately, I am one of them who persistently repeats questions and points to the bad things of this law, although we are aware that the ministry will not answer us anything. Why? Because there's no argument to answer us. This law is bad. This law, in those parts where it's not bad, is unprofessionally written and would be best to withdraw. Because unfortunately, some of the MPs of the ruling majority cannot be improved, although we have tried to propose certain amendments, it may have been the smartest thing to write on all members -- it is deleted, because one law like this is at the expense of Serbian citizens and these citizens of Serbia cannot be sent.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11576	The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11577	No member of this law is at the expense of the citizens of Serbia, and the reasoning clearly states, and now I will read it, as you read and use part of the argument, you do not use part – the amendment is not accepted because Article 26. The bill makes the difference between paper, in brackets, analogue and electronic, digital formats, and both forms are written. It's so beautiful. And every amendment is very detailedly explained. What you need to know, because of the citizens, not because of you, because it's perfectly clear that you need time and that you find that time this way. And, okay, your thing, but because of the citizens of Serbia, the law is not bad, nor makes any additional commitments, nor makes the obligation of a professional manager, but only in a situation where residents themselves cannot agree, etc. Nor does this law ever enter into what is right, for example, ownership, or right of property of the owner of the apartment. So that's what I'm going to say all the time from now on, every time on every single one of your amendments to the Housing and Building Maintenance Act, because I think it's important for the citizens, because the truths you're telling and the ones you're placing, they just have to be explained that they're not, because the law is very clear. All the time you're talking about everything that's not the subject of the law, and that's one of the reasons why I think sometimes there's just no point in answering you, and now I'm going to answer you exactly from these two sentences.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11578	You don't have the right to a replica, you can get the amendment, Mr. Nogo.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11579	Just let me know if the minister says, if I'm telling the truth and I'm not talking about the bill, I think I have the right to respond to such qualifications based on a replica. But it's good to prove to you that you're not telling the truth, Madam Minister. We'll take one, call a banana example. So, exactly the example of this member, where in the recent amendment, you say that as the time of your application, you take the date and time of admission to the register. In all other legislation to Serbian, it means, in all other procedures, that in front of other state authorities, it teaches to mail and seduction, meaning, of a working number, because it's taken as a moment to submit applications, but in this case you're taking the time of admission to the register. On the other hand, you give very short deadlines, let's say, 15 days to report any changes, and in later criminal terms you introduce very high sentences from 5,000 to 150,000, or from 50,000 to two million for the living community, you prescribe high penalties. Because you either want to get your money out of the citizens' pockets or you want to get them to take professional managers because what man is going to do with all these if he has such short deadlines, unfavourable conditions, and he's facing a great punishment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11580	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11581	Thanks again. Once again, I also call for not to be accepted for reasons specifically stated in the explanation, and I am not unfortunately in a position to accept the oral explanation of the promoter who says he does not know what the request is submitted on paper. A little help on my part, paper is this, and everything we heard, since it was or or, it was either because there's nothing to say about the amendment or, well, because there's nothing to say about the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11582	By amendment, MP Srdjan Nogo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11583	This is a question for a colleague of Orlic, whether his address was analogue or digital.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11584	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11585	We'll hold consultations right after this session and put it to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11586	The 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11587	Thank you. Article 26 is another member who mentions these administrative fees, and I have therefore submitted the amendment that their trail in this law is deleted and deleted completely, and this is another opportunity to ask the Minister's question, I guess for the fourth time in the hope that I will get an answer. This time I got up, maybe she hasn't seen me before, I guess she'll see me now. So my two questions are, number one, what are the real costs of keeping a register and the unique records for which this tax is to be paid? And the second question is, the question has already been asked by the head of my parliamentary group, my colleague Radulovic, as regards the evaluation of the legislator, what number of housing communities are it? What was your assessment of writing this law, and what was the estimate that there would be an inflow of these administrative fees to local self-government units, what RGZ? I repeat once again my question, it is very important to me, what are the real costs of keeping a register and the unique records that need to justify the existence of these taxis? Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11588	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11589	Thank you. As expected, the minister did not answer, so I will repeat the question. Since it is again a matter of taxes, that the minister tells us, when they were preparing the law, how many housing communities did she think would be in Serbia? Because this will be a matter of employment, I'm sure, since these managers, according to the minister, will eventually be professional, since no one is crazy to accept the responsibility of the manager in the building and to have so much to do with it and to do so for J.J. What we're expecting is that every building gets one SNS manager. This is one law for hiring "kvorovic" who should appear to report information about what is happening to Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11590	By amendment, Mr. Radulovich, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11591	So we are interested in how many housing communities will be employed by such a "kvorović" so that we can predict the growth of employment. Please, this is from the President of the Group of Members of Time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11592	The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11593	All that the said parliamentary group is saying about the House Bill is indeed, above all, the first complete untruth and total planting, first and foremost, for the citizens of Serbia. And this is about the citizens of Serbia. Neither will their obligations be imposed nor there is political employment with professional managers. Once again, professional managers are not required, but that Serbian citizens also know everything that is false of what the parliamentary group is saying will never be true. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11594	By amendment, MP Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11595	Thank you. We finally got the answer to what we didn't ask. So, to repeat once again, how many housing communities are involved that won't be true of what I said... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11596	Mr. Radulovich, I beg you to speak for the amendment. (Saša Radulovic, from the post: I am talking about the amendment. ) To read the amendment – in the proposal for a law on housing and maintenance of buildings, in Article 26(2): "and proof of payment of administrative fees for registration and ex post registration services" is deleted. (Saša Radulovic, from the post: I am talking about the amendment, Mr. Chairman. Does anyone else want a word on this amendment? (Saša Radulović, from the place: I am talking about the amendment, give me your word. Don't yell at me. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: I have the right to speak, give me the word. You have the right to talk about the amendment, not about what you want. (Saša Radulovic, from the post: Give me your word, Mr. Chairman. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11597	About the amendment. As the amendment speaks, Mr. Chairman, of the fees that will be imposed for all citizens of Serbia, we are interested, Mr. Chairman, that the minister responds to how many housing communities will be formed? I guess they were doing a law analysis, Mr. Chairman. And thank you for the analoguely informing us that one rule applies to another rule, so you're analoguely telling us that what the ruling majority can say can't be the opposition. Let me use my time as my parliamentary group. So again for the minister - how many residential communities were you planning? This is the time of the representatives of the parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11598	The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11599	I ask you most nicely, the chairman of Parliament, to protect me, because I can't hear that noise and I can't think, and in that situation I can't give an answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11600	He's just yelling, he's harmless. By amendment, MP Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11601	Once again for the minister's question – how many housing communities will be formed, what is their assessment when they did the law? I'm sure they've been doing an evaluation, since they must be seriously accessing things like this. How much, Minister?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11602	On behalf of members 27th and Article 27th of the amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11603	Thank you. The Rubrum above article 27 is the deadline for filing the application. In one position, it says - the applicant is obliged to submit a registration to the register within 15 days of the date of the change, i.e. the data subject to registration. It must be suspected that this refers to an application already filed for registration, and in the meantime there's been a change, because it doesn't say it here, it can only be suspected. Because we respect this home and because we think it's a law that's extremely important, we haven't used the arguments you wrote to us, but we write that filing, now or within 15 days, can be papered, and write in brackets – analoguely, or electronically, and in brackets – digitally. You know, there are us here who know and what an analogue signal is and what a digital signal is. Paper's not one of those two. We, considering it to be a mistake, happened, kept it quiet. I don't want to read the explanations where I see clearly that someone was wrong. You can think, we're people, it happens. And then you get up to call us because we don't read the arguments. In that sense, we're going to read everything by analog means. Indeed, as I say, we here need to talk about people who have been scheduled to register since January, to file reports on local self-governments that need to organize registries. You write to me in an explanation – paper (analog) or electronic (digitally). The television was then paper until it became digital.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11604	The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11605	First, it's an explanation of one of the amendments. You're right, we need to talk about people, or all of us, because we're all tenants who are going to apply this law. But I don't really know how we can talk when all your amendments are "expunged". Now there's a whole story about it from once. So I didn't really understand what your attitude was about the law at all. But I repeat again because of the citizens of Serbia, you can use various ways to have a certain amount of time to speak, mostly and most often refer to your parliamentary group and some other parliamentary groups, indeed everything that does not stand in the law. So, to repeat, the professional manager is not an obligation, the law is not against the interest of Serbian citizens. The second thing, the obligation of every residential unit, or residential building, is that it has its own manager who is actually one of their tenants. But what is not a commitment is not an obligation to choose a professional manager unless they want to. There are no ex post expenses, etc., which you're talking about. There's no thing called that law will not be applicable. So this law has passed a year and a half of talks all over Serbia. So it seems to me that the way you're trying to use a rougher term, you're obstructing the work, which is not my right to say it, because I'm a member of the government here, and I came here to defend the law, you're absolutely right, but it's no problem, we'll sit down as long as it takes, and every time we tell the citizens of Serbia that this law introduces order. What we haven't had in 15 years and over. What no one's ever done before. I understand the fear, I understand the concern, understand everything, but let me, we explained a few times, we made explanations, after three months we'll come to the committee in parliament, and we'll talk about the effects of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11606	You're out of time, Col. Comic. (Gordana Comić, from the post: I have amendments. You don't. You talked for two minutes, you spent it. (Gordana Comić, from the post: Next. What about the next one? The word is by the MP Sonja Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11607	I just want to explain a little bit, seeing as there's a mix-up here with that analogous, paper, electronic and all that's going on. Believe me, for two years now, 28,000 licensed engineers of the Engineering Chamber have been unable to reveal this secret. Since this new Law on Planning and Construction has come out, since the new Law has come out on the law of objects and this new whole procedure, people have taken everything, everything they have, everything possible, and paper, and non-paper, and electronic, and PDF formats, and CAT formats, and everything possible, because no one has been able to figure out what it really is to be applied to, and in secretaries that process that documentation, no one has been able to explain it to us. Just a small contribution to realizing that we're at the beginning of everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11608	My colleague Mihajlović, you have no right now. You spent two minutes. Members of the Parliament of the Dveri Group submitted together to the 27th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP Dragan Vesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11609	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The amendment is therefore to Article 27, which reads - the applicant is obliged to submit a registration to the register within 15 days of the date of the change, i.e. the data subject to registration. Our amendment was to extend that deadline and to go 90 days from 15 days. Why did we suggest it like that? We had no intention, as the Minister said earlier at one point, of underestimating the citizens of Serbia, but we have reason to believe that these are legally ignorant people. If they fail to do so within 15 days, in the final part of the law, rather large fines are provided. So I can't stay in the belief that there's no way to give money. On the other hand, if the building is ordinary, let me call the warden, the one chosen by the tenants of that housing unit, what if that man doesn't know he has to report within 15 days, so he doesn't report it, so he's punished? So, the money's going to go in there, we're going to get the citizens to pick up professional managers, and that's where we're going to take their money, because they're going to be professional managers. We took a little money from wages and pensions, and as I would say, a little punishment, a little manager, a little salary and pensions, every single thing, there's nothing left. What will the citizens live on? It's going to be the topic of the second chapter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11610	Anyone else want a word? (No) The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. The word is by MP Dusan Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11611	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable citizens, I want to say the same thing as my predecessor. So, though, I didn't propose such a long deadline, but to extend it from 15 days to 21 days. The reason is free. If building managers are volunteers, or people who already live in these buildings, they, since they will not be paid, have many other obligations, other jobs. So I'd like to ask if we can't rush them to report a housing unit, or, excuse me, residential communities, as well as any change in them, within such short notice. So, I'd like to pray that, maybe it doesn't have to be what I suggested, but just to extend the deadline for people to have enough time to do what is necessary in peace instead of risking their time for such trivial things. Also, I don't understand what kind of punishments are prescribed, do these dragon penalties that are in the back of the law, or are they prescribed by others? I'd pray if someone could just interpret you from the ministry, there's a lot of you here, if someone could say, so is this the norm that's sanctioned in cash or in some other way, or is it simply some framework norm that maybe doesn't have to be respected? If this is different, then I can give up this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11612	Thank you. On behalf of members 28th and Article 28th of the amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11613	Thank you. Rubrum is a certificate of receipt. Every time I talk, I talk about the reasons why I ask that every member be deleted and that this law, in this form, does not enter into force. It's in three bets. The first item – certificate of receipt of the application is issued, at the request of the applicant, at the time of the direct submission of the application to the register, The second point is that the certificate of the received electronic application shall be delivered to the electronic address indicated in the application. Why doesn't the one who e-mails have to have a request, and the one who mails it has to have a request? It's a question of how to tell you, even discrimination, where you rightly introduced three kinds of communication: paper, not to repeat, analogue and electronic. The third point states - the certificate of receipt shall contain, in particular, the number under which the application is entered, the date and time of receipt of the application, the type of application (the entry of the change or erasure of data and documents, the identification of the applicant of the application referred to in Article 23 paragraph 1 of this Act, as well as the list of documents attached). So if the person who submits the received application when he has a direct application to the register does not file a request, he will not get a confirmation containing all this. Do not, please, ask what, about the positions in Article 28. The first position is to say – at the request of the applicant, at the time of the registration of the register, the confirmation of the received application shall be issued. The second attitude says – when you are electronically tolerated, then it is delivered to the electronic address specified in the application. You know, I read the laws. If there's anything I respect, it's this house. My announcement that I will use only part of my right to speak stands, but I ask you to keep an eye on how you answer the questions asked.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11614	The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11615	Here, for the citizens of Serbia. Dear citizens of Serbia, the DS MP wrote on all members of the Housing Act "is deleted". Article 28 which speaks of a certificate of receipt is considered to be, in fact, a certificate must probably be delivered, and the law clearly states that it is the right of one who submits to ask whether or not he wants a confirmation of the received application. It is our opinion that we should release the applicant to claim the right to choose whether he wants confirmation or not. The DS Parliament feels that no and that's where we disagreed. We couldn't write an explanation because we didn't really know what the problem was in this article, because it says "expect". But here, now we've come to hear that there's actually a problem with that confirmation whether or not it should now or not, I didn't realize that, but certainly, our view is that it should be the right applicant for the application.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11616	Thank you. The 28th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milena Bicanin, Meho Omerovic and Dr Muamer Bačevac. The word has been made by MP Ivan Bauer.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11617	Thank you, Chairman. I'll use the MP's time. We have submitted an amendment to Article 28(1) and to the position of the 2nd member. I'll read these two attitudes. Article 1 states that, at the request of the applicant, at the time of the direct submission of the application, the certificate received shall be issued to the registrar. Paragraph 2 states that the certificate of the received electronic application shall be delivered to the electronic address indicated in the application. We felt that in a certain way it was the one who submitted the electronic application privileged and in terms of the principle of equality we asked to delete this section that is between the commas, that is, at the request of the applicant, or that those who submit directly, can also automatically obtain confirmation of the received application, as well as those who submit the application electronically. I must admit, we expected you to accept this amendment, although truth be told, you are an amendment which is something else written, but at the end of the line, or the final text of this article becomes identical, you have accepted and what is most important, is that, I think, we have removed this misunderstanding regarding this position 1 in Article 28 by accepting the amendment of another parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11618	Thank you. Members of the 28th Amendment were submitted to the same text by MPs Dusan Pavlovic and the MPs of the Dveri group together. The word is by MP Dusan Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11619	Thank you. I also suggested erasing this part that reads – at the request of the applicant. I hope I don't want to be accused of making such an amendment. I have an explanation for why I put up with it. I don't think it should be left at all to anyone who file a report like this whether or not they want to get a report on whether or not they got it, but that the administration has an obligation to report to him that the application has been submitted neatly, to have some proof of that. This should be the public administration's obligation, so that there is no uncertainty afterwards as to whether the application has been filed or not. If this part is deleted – at the request of the applicant, the public administration, i.e. A public official is required to issue a notice that the application has been submitted neatly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11620	Thank you. The word is given by the MP Marija Janjušević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11621	Thank you. We also asked to delete "at the request of the applicant". In this way, we believe that the applicant of the application is otherwise discriminated directly on the competent authority's counter against the applicant in electronic form. Otherwise, I fear for ignorant citizens who are in grave danger. Understand my concern for the citizens. If the Minister writes one law, and Marko Chadj licenses those managers who will come to a building where well-intentioned older ladies, grandmothers who even consider pension cuts positive and that is good, I can only imagine what our citizens are waiting for in the future. It's a very small comfort to me, in fact, nothing, that when the citizens feel the effects of this law will punish the promoter in the elections, the very high price of it is very high. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11622	The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11623	When you mention taking care of grandparents, that's exactly why there's this law to impose order. When you mention Mark Chadez and the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, I guess we need to have clear criteria that someone will ever get a license to be a professional manager. I repeat once again, for grandmothers, blankets, and everything else, a professional administrator is not a legal obligation. In some other countries around us it is, but a professional manager in the draft of this law is not an obligation. What it is is that the building has a manager, which can now be, we said, we put an analogy with the president of the home council. Only then, if the tenants want, can they hire a professional manager, who, in doing so, we'll all agree, already exist in some cities, but it's not specified to have a license, nor to take care of the school he has, nor to have training, nor to pass certain exams, nor to pass the entire criminal record, etc. So it's just that grandmas and blankets and everyone else in their buildings wouldn't have problems they keep having, and you and I and we all here know what kind of problems we have in our apartment buildings. I'm reacting at a time when I think people, citizens of Serbia, are watching this because you're telling the truth and you're really saying things that just pour some kind of fear into people. I don't want it, I can't let it, and that's why I'm responding, and that's why it suits you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11624	Take it easy. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11625	Dear Madam Minister, it is absolutely incorrect for you to bring this in because of your grandparents, because if you were really bringing in people who are legally ignorant parties and who are barely making ends meet because of pension cuts and because of very difficult circumstances for life, you would not impose on them the obligations you impose on them by this law. So, the obligation to have accounting, to file the final bill...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11626	Mr. Nogo, please about the amendment. I will read the amendment – in Article 28(1), the words “at the request of the applicant” shall be deleted. It has nothing to do with professional managers, home council presidents, pensions, grandparents. The word is by the MP Sonja Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11627	I don't want to talk about grandmothers or blankets or professional managers. I'm just interested in the suggestion that I have an economic analysis done, as well as the social effects of this law. So, as we have previous studies of justification...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11628	Please, and you, my colleague, as I have warned my colleague...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11629	So that we don't mention grandparents, give us the numbers.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11630	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11631	I thank you, in any case, for accepting the amendment, because it was obviously forgotten to confirm the receipt of the application, when submitted by analog means, or directly via the counter, to the person who submitted the application. It's certainly okay. I don't think it's right for you to honor the MPs to submit amendments to obstruct. I don't know why you adopted 16 amendments to the Social Democratic Party-National Movement of Serbia, if you think we're obstructing the amendments? I certainly think all these amendments were meant to fix the law and we tried to convince you, but unfortunately you didn't accept our arguments.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11632	On behalf of members 29th and Article 29th of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Comic. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11633	Thank you. Rubrum is a "amendment and withdrawal from application". I will return to this member when it comes to Article 35 and a different provision. In three positions in this article for which I suggest that it be deleted as this previous one, where I also asked it to be deleted and I explained why, because you accepted the amendment, it's good that you accepted anyone's, never mind, whether these or those groups, at least something to fix... Therefore, in three statements, the applicant may amend the application or withdraw from it until the registrar's decision is made on the application. In paragraph 2, if the applicant withdraws from the application, the registrar shall adopt a solution suspending the procedure. That's those two attitudes. So in the first place, when he can give up before the registrar makes a decision, why do you need to write that solution? That's the normative optimism. So, you in this law that is inapplicable for other reasons enter procedures that have no need to enter, because we don't know, Article 35 will confirm that, which official person. We've also had a different approach - if you file a personal complaint with the registrar and if you submit electronically. It says here - the applicant can change the application. He can report it whenever he wants. It's his application. He can give up on her whenever he wants, it's his application, the Law of Administrative Procedure. You're putting a special pair of attitudes unnecessarily. That's why I'm asking it to be erased.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11634	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11635	I thank you, Chairman. Here, when it comes to this amendment at all, we have to call on the other procedural laws. If this law applies, the provisions of the Law on Administrative Procedure which is also a procedural law should be applied accordingly, we must bear in mind those laws which are also procedural character, such as the Code of Criminal Procedure or the Law on Prosecution. The amendment promoter considers that there is no need for a solution to be suspended if the applicant cancels the application. I must remind myself that according to the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, if the prosecutor gives up prosecution, a solution is made to suspend criminal proceedings. Then why would we even be able to act differently when it comes to a procedural decision, a procedural solution? And according to the Law on Prosecution in the event of withdrawal or withdrawal of the claim, an adequate solution is also made, which ends the procedure in a procedural sense. So there's no reason for us, in accordance with the provisions of these procedural laws in this situation, to standardise different procedural solutions because they are in principle universal character. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11636	On behalf of members of the 30th and Article 30th amendments, MP Gordana Comic submitted. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11637	Here's a member on the basis of which I asked you if we calculated how long it took us to receive the application and issue solutions, because time is a limited resource and non-renewable resource to all living things. When you work both processive and anything, you count on how much time you need. That's why I'm talking about 10,000 minutes a month in ideal cases, because that's how one registrar works. Article 30 practically gives way to time. It's said in the first paragraph what he's doing on admission to registration, what he's checking. Article 2 states that the information subject to publication is not subject to verification of the fulfilment of formal conditions, are entered in the register. That's the time you need again. Finally, in the third paragraph, it shall decide on the application of a decision to register or to reject the application within five days. There's even a deadline for him to communicate with the party again. I asked you, is this enough for 15 minutes on application? How long does it take? Half an hour? One thing we have to learn, that if we want to apply the law we have to have good provisions, we have to have the time management needed to apply those provisions in practice, and we have to have an advance assessment of who's going to do it, what, how much does it cost and who's going to pay for it? And I don't doubt it, we all have that as an idea, but you can't see it here. And that's why I'm asking 10,000 minutes a month, a full 168 hours, just to do it one, it can't be more than 600, and if you take it, you extrapolate because there are other jobs, because 15 minutes is completely off my mind, then you get a smaller number. Then you'll see how we end in 2017, with how many members of the House.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11638	Thank you. Members of the Parliament of the Dveri Group submitted together to Article 30 of the amendment. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11639	This amendment has not been accepted and what is most interesting is an explanation. Now, look, I quote an explanation: The amendment is not accepted, so eventually it says – because it is not a special decision on the formation of a residential community, but a residential community is formed ex-lege, meaning by this law itself. And we here keep repeating and arguing, this law is bad, this law introduces a number of obligations and material, but also procedural for the citizens of Serbia. The Minister either shuts up or ignores it because there's no argument, or she repeats that it's not true. But, look now, you say for yourself – that by force the law forms a residential community, and previously in the law you say that the housing community will be subject to the rules on associations, and I repeat that associations are established by free will, and then the Accounting and Audit Act 2 clearly shows that you are introducing an additional obligation, keeping books and submitting a final account. Here, just on one small case, an indication that additional obligations are being introduced. So the housing community itself will be an additional obligation. It only complicates the lives of Serbian citizens and gives additional emphasis. We have here tried to get an answer to a simple question – how much do you expect to form housing communities? You don't know how to tell us, and I don't think you want to tell us how much immovableity there is in Serbia. Well, count that most of them, the vast majority of the minimum two people have the ownership part, so that's the number of living communities that will be formed, so the times the registration fee, so the times as many professional managers, the times the penalties threatened, and professional managers, you can take your hand, but professional managers will really be because no one in their right mind will want to accept building management under this law. I'm telling you again, these are all legal ignorant parties. If I wasn't a MP, I wouldn't be dealing with this law, I wouldn't read it, and I wouldn't care. So you have to figure out who you're talking to. I'm sure the citizens won't be able to process this well.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11640	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11641	Well, I've listened to you so many times, you've said so many false things. I'm not a lawyer, but there are people around me who are and are doing it, and on the other hand you are a lawyer, so it's just amazing how some things are interpreted, whether you're doing it with intent or not, maybe that's why you don't have experience, so it takes some experience to learn that. So business buildings are only registered as associations. You've said something several times that's absolutely not true. Secondly, you have a nice apartment building in article 16, but you have to read it, but when you read it from beginning to end, don't read one part, because then I really start to think that you intend to say something here in front of Serbian citizens that is not true. I understand that you don't know, I realize that it takes time to gain a certain experience that you don't have at this point. The housing community has legal personality status that comes at a time when at least two persons become owners of two separate works, and I repeat once again business buildings are registered as associations, not residential buildings. [[Srjan Nogo, from the place: Right to replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11642	No, I don't. (Srdian Nogo, from the post: The Minister addressed me directly. You've been to her too many times. He's so funny to me, nothing's funny. You've exchanged more than once, as long as I'm listening to it. The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11643	Dear Presidents of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our parliamentary group feels that it is not enough five working days for local self-government to make applications. It will be hundreds of thousands of applications that will first come to various authorities of local self-government. That's why we suggested a 15-day deadline. If the application is not considered within five days, and we can expect that it will not be able to allow local self-government to consider all these applications within five days, the application is deemed to be adopted and will be necessary, by law, to adopt, in order to silence the administration of a solution adopted. After that, they will have to make changes, which they have the right to comply with the law, if, on the basis of some wrong information, that registration application has been adopted. We're leading to a new procedure. I just think it's reasonable to extend their deadline to make it easier for them to file all these applications. So, not to be a five-day deadline, but to be 15 days, and I mean within that time limit, then objectively, they can also be able to change. I agree that we should force the administration to work faster, I have submitted amendments in that direction to speed up the work of local self-government, but don't force them to do anything they can't meet.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11644	Sonja Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11645	I agree with my colleague. The deadline may be enough for five working days if the analysis of how many housing communities are expected to be done. Since it wasn't done, I really don't think that's enough, and that 15 days is also a minimum deadline for local self-government to respond to reports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11646	On behalf of members 31 and Article 31 of the amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 31 of the amendment. The word is Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11647	Thank you. We think first of all, this is about a complaint about a registration decision and we first think it's about a administrative procedure and therefore it's unclear why a second-degree body is a municipal or city council appointed by the same registrator whose decision we're now complaining about. We suggest that it be the Ministry. It's unclear why you don't want to accept that amendment, because we think this is really, how you did it, Kadiya sues you, Kadiya judges you. We think it would be more useful to give citizens the opportunity to complain to another body, not the authority that named the one who made the decision that the citizens are complaining about. On the other hand, again, we have this constant problem that citizens who are volunteering for certain jobs, who are presidents of the housing assembly, at this point, future building managers who will volunteer to be building managers expect to perform extremely complicated activities, subject to various sanctions, and we believe that the epilogue of what you are doing right now will be that you will force all buildings to have professional managers because none of the volunteers who are currently running the household will want to be accepted or, here I say, there will be few who will accept doing free work, for which someone else will be paid. And in fact, the epilogue will be that the buildings will have professional managers, even those buildings that have housing congregations that function today. We know who will be professional managers, we talked more about it, and we believe that the epilogue of this will be that there will be some kind of member of the SNS in each building, which, as we later see in the law, will have powers that neither the Constitution nor the applicable law permit.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11648	On behalf of the above member of the 32nd and member of the 32nd amendment, MP Gordana Comic tabled. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) To Article 32. The amendment was brought together by MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11649	We also suggest that an organ be changed to which an appeal can be made for the registrar's decision. We find it unfair, that it is wrong for the same authority to decide on the complaint that has been made by the person whose decision the appeal is made. You could have made it simple and said that the same person was being appealed, and then it would have been quite clear what you were up to. You practically intend that these decisions can't be corrected, that the complaints won't be respected, because that would practically allow local self-governments to admit the mistake they've made. I don't think it would be a big deal if you accepted this amendment. It is not one of those amendments that is "wipe" that bothers you so much, but obviously it is not appropriate for you to have dialogue when we have the amendments "wipe out", and it is not appropriate for you to conduct a dialogue even when we propose something concrete to the amendments. One time you're excused for not talking about the amendments being "expunged", and another time I don't know what your excuse is, we're just not talking, so you just get the impression that you don't even want to talk about this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11650	The word is Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11651	And in the previous article and in this article, what you're looking for is the opposite of the Law on Local Self-Government, and that's why the Ministry can't solve these things that you asked for, which is very clear in the explanation, but here I will repeat. I find it interesting to know that you know very well who will be professional managers, when they are not yet registered, there is no training done, no one has applied, nor is there any competition, so it's really every honor in your visibility. I'm not so psychic, I know there are rules and I know we'll follow those rules. I know that the names, last names and conditions, first of all, that someone will be a professional manager will be the full public, public criteria and licenses that you and I will receive, and anyone else will be able to check and see. But, well, if you know it, I really admire you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11652	The word is Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11653	I thank you, President. The amendment would have made sense if it hadn't been contrary to the provisions of the Law on Local Self-Government. For example, in Article 46(5), point (a) of the first subparagraph of Article 5(1), point (b) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: The Law on Local Self-Government clearly states what is the jurisdiction of the municipal council, i.e. the city council, and that jurisdiction implies that in the administrative procedure in the second instance it resolves the complaints of citizens, bodies, institutions and bodies which are under the jurisdiction of the municipal or city council. What does that mean? This means that in no way can the Ministry decide here in the second degree, because then there would be a direct violation of the provisions of the Law on Local Self-Government. Then we'd have to change Article 46. The Law on Local Self-Government, to regulate in a different way the jurisdiction of the municipal, or city council, and only then to establish the possibility of it being the Ministry or someone else. The Law on Local Self-Government needs to be read, and then it'll be clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11654	Thank you. To Article 32. The amendment was filed by Branka Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Branka Stamenković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11655	Thank you. Article 32. The proposed amendments to this article again avoid the introduction of new financial commitments that would fall on the burden of members of the residential communities. In fact, we are going back to those two types of administrative fees imposed on the housing communities, which I consistently insist on from the amendment to the amendment to delete. This is another opportunity to ask the Minister's question, which I have asked six times so far, which I haven't yet received an answer to, which is – what are the legitimate costs of keeping a register and keeping a unique record that requires the living communities to pay these two kinds of taxes and what housing communities are we even talking about? I suppose when designing the law, it was still being evaluated. You can't know the exact number, but about what number of residential communities we're talking about, and do we have any idea what amount of money these administrative fees will generate for local self-government and the Republic Geodetic Institute? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11656	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11657	This is very interesting to me, because all the time you're talking about fees that the applicants will pay to any local self-government and RGZ, and you're very against it because you consider an additional charge, etc., and then in Article 32 when we say that when they file a concerted application, etc. They won't pay the administrative fees and fees again, you say it's deleted. I don't know if you're up for it or not. As for projections, numbers, etc., yes, you're right, we're very well analyzed, we have that data.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11658	The word is Sonja Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11659	We just want to hear that data. Why are you hiding from us? I guess we're working together for Serbian citizens, huh?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11660	Thank you. The word is Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11661	You know, but you're not gonna tell us. Why won't you tell us? You don't love me? I don't deserve to know? As a MP, I'm not worthy to know such a single piece of information? I have to write a request for a law on free access to information of public importance, so I have to ask because it's not transparently published at the presentation and the Internet presentation? Did I offend you? Why? I'm confused.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11662	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11663	I've been listening to you all the time, and I've been wondering how it's possible that one parliamentary group that takes so much care of everything, about all the data, all of it knows, has explained to us all that everything we do, we do against citizens' interests, etc., and one of the most common things it hasn't done – it hasn't read the reasoning of the law. In the light of this law, there's every piece of information you've asked me and I've been waiting all along to see if any of your colleagues will remember and say, "Wait, wait, wait, you've got a reason for the law, and what you'd probably read, since you're doing some other analysis. However, in any case, in the light of a law that is so important to all citizens, about which you talk all the time that it is very important for all citizens, here, dear citizens, they have not even been able to read those ten pages where they write all the data and all the projections of how many objects are, etc. Maybe in the next call, I'll tell you the side, or you'll find it yourself? No, find it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11664	The word is Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11665	Thank you very much for your instruction. Here on behalf of the citizens of Serbia, I ask you to read this information not to me, but to the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11666	There's a bill on the Assembly site, so they'll read the law. (Branka Stamenkovic, from the place: Why are you interfering? Why am I interfering? You want me to come out? Are you suggesting I go out? (Branka Stamenkovic, from the place: Yes. Well, there's no vice president here. Unless Chomićka comes to replace me and I come out after you've forced me out. What do I do? What would you say? Do you not love me? The word is Sonja Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11667	We didn't find anything in the explanation that would tell us what the number of units was when we read the law. That's the 2002 statistics. Years. I'd ask the minister to listen and try to explain. Mrs. Mihajlovic, these are statistics from 2002 on the number of housing units, which have changed significantly in the meantime. So, in the last 14 years, the number of housing units has changed significantly compared to 2002, where the statistics on this bill are, so you haven't given us an answer. If you can, you explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11668	Thank you. On behalf of the above members of the 33rd and Article 33th Amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. On behalf of members 34th and Article 34th of the amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. On behalf of members 35 and member of the 35th amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11669	The rubrum of the 35th is the vomit of the former state. In one position it says – in the registration process it is not allowed to return to the previous state. I, like all the other members, have suggested that it be deleted, because I consider this law as it is proposed, even with amendments, it is good that you have accepted the amendments, should not enter into force. So, in what previous state in the registration process? In each of the cases provided for by the members of the previous quotes, when, in the registration procedure, is the applicant of the administrator on behalf of the resident assembly, a legal person or an official duty? This member of the law will have what I would say to influence, the consequences of people who are parties to the proceedings. On the one hand, the registrator, on the other hand, whichever one of these three is, which I don't know by official duty who's going to file an application or who's legally authorized by law. Then they give him a solution, a conclusion, whatever you want and write on the basis of Article 35. – you are not allowed to vomit in your previous condition. Why am I erasing? Because I think it'll cause a problem. Why am I explaining why I'm erasing? Because I'm giving you a chance to explain what this means to any local self-government with anyone we've defined in the previous members so that they can enter the registration process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11670	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11671	You'll admit that when something is already in the register and you publish it, that's exactly what it says in the explanation, you're going to hurt third party rights, if you want to go back to something that wasn't there. At the end-end all electronic bases have that rule, both in the APR and anywhere. So either you're not, which isn't like you, you didn't understand exactly what article 35 says, or maybe this argument we gave is not right. But you can't get the data back, but you're going on some kind of change, etc., as it's already regulated by the law, which I thought you didn't understand when you were talking about a member of the previous one when you said you were going to be tied to 31. It's not the same, you can't recover the data but you can go on a new change, because it would really be a threat to some third party that she's read, seen the data and thinks that this data is...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11672	Thank you. Members of the Devere MPs jointly submitted to the 35th amendment. The word is Maria Janjušević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11673	We have put forward our proposal on this amendment, which should read – in the procedure of registration, vomiting in the previous state is allowed in accordance with the provisions of the law governing the general administrative procedure. So we didn't invent the general administrative procedure. The reason why it is not accepted is that the draft law provides for a special procedure for the registration of housing communities in which certain provisions of the general administrative procedure can be excluded, for reasons of integrity and efficiency of the conduct of the procedure. The question arises – for whom and for whose benefit is this procedure effective? We believe that the formulation proposed in this bill is actually disproved by the ignorant parties that I've talked about before. I consider myself an informed person, but I've often been in a position to pay some punishment, a fine because I didn't know the law well. You said my colleague's lawyer didn't know very well. What will happen to the ignorant parties who will suffer from that clear sentence that the ignorance of the law does not amnesty you from the application of them? The citizens are at risk again. I must admit I wasn't so worried at the very beginning of this debate, but the longer I listen to the explanation of our minister, my concerns are growing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11674	The word is Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11675	I would like to thank the President. First of all, the Institute of Vomiting in the former state is a procedural legal institute. Here, I would only ask the Honorable Minister to consider, given that the procedural consequences of returning to the previous situation mean that the one who has committed an untimely operation, and there are objective reasons that have prevented him from doing so in good time, to gain the right to repeat that action within a certain period of time so that he can strengthen his right to the procedure. In particular, Article 27 should be taken into account, and Article 27 says that the applicant is obliged to submit an application within the appropriate time limit. If he can't stand it, he's practically in a fit, because he can't take it again now if there's no possibility of vomiting in his previous condition. Please, if there is no other way, before we get into the situation of voting for this law, we return at least the committee to intervene with the amendment committee in relation to this member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11676	Thank you. A Member of the 35th Amendment was sent by a Member of the Parliament of Alexander Chabrai.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11677	So, Article 35, which we are already discussing for a while, with a considerable degree of consent, I would say even for me a little bit unexpected, says like this – in the registration process no vomit is allowed in the previous state. I have to ask you why. In fact, you probably know that there should be legal consistency between laws that exist, laws that already apply, laws that are passed and in all other laws that will apply in judicial proceedings related to this law, there is a legal institute to return to the previous situation. As is the Law of Prosecution, so the General Administrative Procedure Act that some colleagues have already mentioned, I can't understand, and I don't understand the reasons, so why is there really no vomiting here in the previous state? I'm talking here about whether citizens will understand what they're supposed to do, whether they won't understand it etc., and we're also called that we didn't understand the members of the law well enough, the arguments, etc., if we didn't understand it well enough, you'll agree that not every citizen will understand what's going on here. I'd like to ask you to consider this at the end of the line to explain to us why we're not allowed here to vomit in the previous state, and here we are, discussing it, and I think we all agree that it should exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11678	Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11679	Let me say it again. It also writes in the explanation, especially for the protection of third parties, but when you already mentioned legal consistency, you have the Law on registration in the APR, Article 21 also speaks very clearly and exclusively, he says – in the registration process you are not allowed to return to the previous state. Twenty-one registers are usually a specific register and are conducted precisely on the basis of a member like this. That, will the citizens understand, and how we will make instructions and rules, as we have done for all previous laws just to help the citizens. If you're not, as you say, that we didn't understand how the citizens were going to be, I can only understand that you think you're something above the citizens, so you're going to understand now as you say, but you're still not, and the citizens are just not going to, no, the citizens just need order. We have made this law precisely because there have been very many objections, a lot of comments on the need to regulate the area of housing and building maintenance and that there are serious problems in the three laws that exist, precisely because of citizens. Not from you, but from some other citizens you speak of as ignorant, etc. Let me tell you right now, these same citizens have applied the Law on Planning and Construction, and we're in the top ten in the world for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11680	The word is Alexander Chabrai.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11681	Mrs. Mihajlović, I think you've deliberately misread my words now. Of course I didn't mean to say that citizens are ignorant. I just wanted to say that you're claiming, and we know best that we've worked very hard to say in these conditions, better to say the conditions, to read, to interpret the law, to write amendments, etc. You know, I feel a little bit now in that situation as a student, for example, who would get a homework assignment to read both "War and Peace" and "Fausta" and "Don Quixote" and do an analysis of all the characters in those parts and then when he tries to do that homework, then the professor tells him – it's not good for you. So, of course, it's not about citizens being less understanding than we are. I think you've realized that it's about us especially trying to understand this, and that it has proved that many of us here didn't understand it, but simply, we have objections that you're not going to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11682	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11683	I thank you, President. Of course there is support for the protection of third parties, when it comes to the application of the procedural and legal institute, vomit in the previous state. But the question arises – how to protect the applicant? Article 27 states that the applicant is obliged to submit a registration to the register within 15 days of the date of the change, i.e. the data subject to registration. Let's take an example that shouldn't be trivial, but it could happen in a practical situation. I'm the manager or the manager. There's a change. At the moment of the change, I am medically disabled, in any way, to take any action, including an action that is meant to be related to Article 27. After all, in the Law of Prosecution, when I miss the appeal, I submit with a motion to return to the former state of medical documentation that justifies me that I could not take that action. Why couldn't the manager do it here? There's no reason to think about it, it's really something that's imperative in a procedural and legal sense. It means that the applicant is then damaged, because he will pay a fine that will not be small, will be large, and will not be able to use the procedural and legal institute to return to the previous state, because he has exceeded the 15-day period without his will, or because of the objective circumstances that have prevented him from submitting the application within the time limit prescribed.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11684	The title above the 36th and the 36th amendment was submitted by Gordana Comic. Do you want a word? (No) Parliamentarians Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic and Nenad Constantinovic submitted to the 36th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11685	Dear Parliament Speakers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I asked this amendment to delete the words "final approval". There is no final approval of the application. It doesn't exist. The application, it was explained in the law as submitted, it is known who is acting on the application and there is no final approval. Please remove that term from this article, because nothing will change if you remove that term from a member who doesn't exist anyway. We all understand that the central information system, that all data must be inserted into it, that unless all data is inserted, simply, the application will not pass. That's not controversial. And there's no question that the central information system is doing it. But I understood that after many readings and interpretations of this member. Finally, there is no such thing as approval. When you write a member like this, it implies that after the registrar, someone else still has to approve. There's no one else who finally approves of anything. Please correct this, there's no reason not to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11686	Thank you. On behalf of the above-Article 37th and Article 27th of the amendment, MEP Gordana Comic tabled. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11687	Thank you. Rubrum's correcting the error. In two attitudes, a member tries to define the situation what if an error was made during the registration. I think the whole law is a mistake, and that's why I'm asking all the provisions to be deleted. Therefore, the first point states: “If an error in writing, calculating or other obvious error is made in registration, the registrar will, within five days of the day of knowledge of the error or of the date of submission, make the correction of the error in the register and draw the conclusion. ” How did he find out about the mistake without asking? He's so bored, he's looking at the paperwork again? How did he find out about the mistake? So, either he's been asked to do it or what? Is there an institution that does data comparison control, or is it just looking at documentation control? How did he come to know that some mistake was made? The second point is said: "If a registrator, deciding on a request for correction, finds that an error has not been made, he makes a solution that rejects the request as unfounded". So you two have a whole process that changes the content of the documentation, and we left it completely unclear how it happens. If the applicant has made a request to correct the error, there must be a procedure for it. At the end of the line, there must be someone responsible for it. If not, how does it come to know that a mistake was made? We cannot leave in such matters, where the party in the proceedings is a representative of the resident community, or a congregation of residents, and on the other hand local self-government, the provision that he finds out that there has been a mistake. Like the argument we just exchanged... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11688	Time. Thank you. Members of the Democratic Party Group together submitted to the 37th amendment. On behalf of the above members of the 38th and Article 38th Amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. On behalf of the above members of the 39th and member of the 39th amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11689	Article 39 has the rubrum – the subsequent application of the law. So, put - no going back to the previous state, calling for the APR in the previous member, abolishing the possibility of a timely and untimely one, putting up deadlines, not leaving the possibility of a complaint, but going criminal punishment. And then comes Article 39, which says: “In matters relating to registration and registration procedures, which are not particularly regulated by this law, the law governing the general administrative procedure is applied. ” And those who are specially decorated are not applied to them? What are these questions that are not regulated by this law without the application of the General Administrative Procedure Act? That's the normative optimism. That's why I'm asking every single provision to be deleted, why I'm asking for a different approach to writing this law, why I think our dialogue, however exchanged arguments, should help those who need to apply this law. Who will decide what procedure is not governed by this law? You say – we have arranged and filed applications and there is no going back to the previous state and deadlines and everything else, and then suddenly it appears that the law governing the general administrative procedure is applied. My intention is just to leave out any doubt that users who need to start applying for the registration of residential communities very quickly and that those in local self-government, who need to start working very quickly, will now know – these ones are waiting for training, these others have no one to train except me and you and the media, of course, to detail. That's why it's important to count how many minutes it takes for you to get a job.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11690	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11691	First, this is a completely normal sentence and a member, but good. All that is not, therefore, defined by this law, i.e. determined by this law, and you asked what, so it can be a proof, a delivery of certain calls, etc. And it's going to the tooth. And when you say, among other things, that you're all for erasing it, you have all the members where it says it is deleted, your parliamentary group, of course, gives amendments. Therefore, your parliamentary group believes that these members should not all be deleted except for this one member where they have said, and that is Article 37. So I'm also curious that there's a difference. So, once again, everything that is not defined by this law, as in some other laws, goes to the teeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11692	The name above the 40th and member of the 40th amendment was filed by Gordana Comic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11693	Thank you. For good reason, I have submitted amendments to delete and read the stenograms of this session will show how many good reasons I had to seek to delete each individual member. Rubrum above the 40th is the authorities of the residential community and their formation. In a total of six views, you here explain what the mandatory authorities of the residential community are, what the congregation of the residential community can do and what it has to do within 60 days, what the warden does, or the person empowered by the decision of the residential community to take. Now you have here, in that position 4, you have a manager or a person authorized by a decision of the residential community, and in a member I asked you about, the one between 23 and 27, including 35, you have a legally authorized person. I asked you which one? Is this the man in this position, or isn't he? So if you have that person authorized by a decision of the residential community, then it could be someone who's a member of the residential community, could be a lawyer, could be who? Even inconsistencies in language and you give deadlines. In your final position, you say, in the event of trust in the management of the professional manager, based on a decision by the congregation of the residential community, or by the rules of the owner, the assembly may choose one or more persons to intervene in business, between the residential community and the professional manager. How's he gonna mediate? What's he gonna mediate into? What are those faces gonna do between a living community and a professional manager? You're putting that last one in the organs of the residential community and their formation. Are those faces the organs of a residential community or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11694	Thank you. You want to finish? No, I don't. Members of the 40th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs of the Democratic Party group. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11695	Thank you. Now here, not only do we have these great responsibilities for a possible building manager, who we are confident will grow into a professional manager, because we claim that no one will volunteer to take on this much responsibility, that no one will want to be responsible for this many things, and that at the same time some members of the SNS are paid for this same job, but we are now introducing the authorities of the residential community, which are committees, commissions and other bodies, and then the decision of the assembly determines their composition, tasks and methods of work. So you're giving so much work to people who are going to be building managers, that it's impossible for anyone who has a job, a job, a life, and everything else that people have, to take care of. You are surprised how psychic we are, as we know who will be the professional manager, you know Mrs. Mihajlović the whole of Serbia knows that because it is also known that the competitions you are calling are going through, it is known that only members of the SNS are employed in public enterprises for which it is not worth banning employment in the public sector, it is known how you regulate it, who is employed in municipalities, who is employed in public enterprises. So, you're just going to keep up the practice, so these professional building managers will be members of the SNS, as well as all the jobs that have been opened so far have been filled out. The result of what you are now doing by creating committees, commissions and other bodies will be that all citizens will have to pay professional building managers, and these professional building managers will be members of the SNS, as will all the people who have been employed so far, since you have run Serbia. Do not let the citizens of Serbia finance your party activists.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11696	Thank you. He won't. He won't. The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11697	And so far, by law, there was the possibility of various commissions forming, and now we've written committees. Nowhere does it say it's an obligation, but it says it's a possibility. So he can, and he doesn't have to. And I'm still asking you, please explain to me which professional managers, from the SNS, are going to be professional managers? How do you know that? You tell me a secret, because I don't know how, what's going on here. What I need to look at to know which professional manager it will be. Just another little note, a reminder. So, during the DS Law on Public Enterprises, which was made and which accurately determined how directors and the Supervisory Board were elected, there was no such thing as no, it was made by the government in which the SNS is located. So let's just make that difference. But please enlighten me, tell me which political, I don't know, members of the SNS will be in buildings and be professional managers? I really don't know, that next time I can judge it before you do. I'd be better than you, if I could.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11698	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11699	Thank you. You can't be better, Mrs. Mihajlovic, but I can help you understand how members of the SNS are employed, I don't need to explain it to you, you can ask any citizen of Serbia. Here, when you go out on the street, stop any passersby and ask him if he knows from his life, environments, neighborhoods, families, among friends, anyone that he's been hired over the past four years without getting a job in some public enterprise and not being a member of the SNS? Well, that's why you passed the Law on the ban on employment in the public sector that applies to everything, but not to public enterprises, but to doctors, teachers and so on. Public enterprises do not refer to those republican companies or local companies. You yourself have criticized Mrs. Mihajlovic's various companies, though run by your coalition partners, not who lead your party colleagues to hire people on a party basis and so on. That was when you were a minister, not while you were in opposition, although you were most of your time in power, in fact when others were in power. So I don't need to explain to you that SNS members are employed in Serbia, all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and everyone knows at least someone from the SNS who came to work through the party. You can talk until tomorrow that's not so, but the citizens know very well what it's like. Don't tell me that before 2012, we paid the price politically, but you can't convince the citizens that this is no longer happening, because all citizens know that SNS members are employed in every way possible, and professional managers will be another way to do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11700	Thank you. The word is Krsto Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11701	The Honorable President, the Honorable Vice-President of the Government, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, regarding the insistence of this story on professional managers and that they will be from the SNS, without any argument, without any fact as possible, we are left to believe that those who speak and insist on it are coming from themselves. As far as employment is concerned, I will never forget one stand in 2012 before those elections when we replaced that power, when one man approached me and said, "The cross these promised towers and cities, and in my house of five family members only makes an electrician." That's how they hired. Speaking of how she asked some random passersby, I have one experience on this subject about professional managers. I think they're professional building owners. How? Well, I was looking for an address on Vracar once, I'm not from Belgrade, so I needed help from a random passerby. And this random passerby tells me like this – you go straight, you get to that park, you turn left, and you pass the building of Dragan Sutanovac, so it's a little bit real, and that's the address. And he was really right. No, he was a very correct random passerby. He explained it well. So here's the big difference between professional building owners and professional managers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11702	Thank you. The word has an MP, Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11703	Well, since I'm talking about these mandatory bodies of the housing community, to ask the minister again, and how many of these housing communities we expect after you've duped the citizens a little while ago by telling them that it's written in an explanation, and it doesn't say in an explanation, it's just a number of apartments. Now, tell the minister, how many housing communities do you expect because on this basis we will be able to assess how much cost you intend to run into Serbian citizens and get a little more party employment, so we know what number it is, so maybe our employment will jump in that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11704	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11705	Well, you should ask your colleague who I explained it to, and since she's not here right now, what can I do to you. You might want to read the law's reasoning, too, to put up with the costs. I don't know that we've come up with expenses, but maybe those who mix up a bankruptcy manager with a professional manager have really come after all of us. Therefore, read the reasons for the number of apartments in 2011 and not in 2002, according to your colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11706	The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11707	Thank you, Minister, but he won't be able to get that far. Since in your explanation you have only the number of apartments, ministers, and we are talking about residential communities, so instead of misleading citizens of Serbia, tell us how many housing communities, since you certainly did an assessment and don't say anything that isn't true. I repeat, in your explanation, it says the number of apartments, not housing communities. How many housing communities do you expect, so that we can assess how much employment you expect the warden to have under this law of yours? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11708	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11709	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected viewers, these unarticulated screams belong to Pink Panther, who turned his back on me. Or, to explain, "Pink Partner" is a group that is prone to robbery. This amendment should be rejected. Why is someone so interested in who's gonna run the housing community when he didn't take part in it himself? The man who made 49 million in his property card wrote that he had nothing. So I don't have any apartment, and I don't know what he's worried about, and how much it concerns him when a man in his life, despite the incomes from Canada, America, Germany, despite the incomes he's earned here when he became an American tax fugitive, there's almost nothing. As much as Al Capone was responsible for $200,000, and someone for a million didn't answer, I'm pulling the parallel that Al Capone is a small fish of spit for ours, and I think this one would skin him and shove him into bankruptcy. Thank you. (Saša Radulovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11710	There's no replica, you weren't there. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: I did not move from here. How do you know when you were reading and looking ahead? (Saša Radulovic, from town: Replica. He can't. (Saša Radulovic, from the post: By amendment. () On what amendment exactly? (Saša Radulovic, from the place: I know which it is, but I will not answer you. I can't do that. The MPs of the Dveri parliamentary group submitted together to the 40th amendment. I can't give a word... (Saša Radulovic, from the place: So big a party, what are you afraid of? Here we go, performing again. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: Date word. Then there's nothing. Come on, let's have a slap, and let's finish this aggression of yours. It's easier, when you hit me, it gets a little freaked out. (Saša Radulović, from the place: You are scared and the word given. ) Will you enable MPs from the Dvora? (Saša Radulovic, from the place: Follow the rules and give the word. That's right. Now I'm going to punish you. You have a warning. There's a great movie at 8:30, and I'll give you my tickets, and you can scream good and clap, and at the beginning and at the end of the movie, it's not allowed in between. Do MPs of the Dvori Group want a word? The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11711	Thank you. Article 40, I'd concentrate here on point four. We started that dialogue a little while ago, so I'd like to get a hold of myself. The 15-day deadline in which all the changes that take place are to be delivered to the register is extremely short. This is where we suggested that it be replaced by a 90-day deadline. Of course, you're telling us in response that that deadline is enough. However, I would remind you that a few hours ago we had an identical situation and a debate over the deadline, when it came to the adoption of certain sublegal acts, where professional persons at the Ministry require 90 days of time, do not accept a smaller deadline, and here we have some persons who are laymen, ignorant parties, ignorant in terms of legal order. When you come to court, so when you're not a lawyer, you're an ignorant party, you're referring to a legally ignorant party that doesn't know the legal norms and doesn't know this law. A man who, for example, was elected manager, didn't want to pay the professional manager, wanted to cut costs in the building itself, so a person accepted to be manager, and has other obligations, has family obligations, has business obligations and has possibly been late and has missed that 15-day deadline. I don't see what would change and what would be so important to the legislator if he left three months or 90 days of registration for any change, especially when I'm going back to running that register and to the GZ, which is 10 years old if he's not able to do what he's doing. Now, when you have so much oppression, we also had a Member of the House of Commons who told you how long it would take you to process all these applications, I don't see why you insist on short deadlines, and I repeat, you have a very high sentence later in the law. I don't think that's right and doesn't talk about good intentions.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11712	Parliamentarians Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 40th amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11713	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't think there should be a mediator between a congregation of the residential community and a professional manager. That relationship is usually regulated by a contract. What a professional manager should do is regulated by law. The explanation that it's easier to communicate so that the congregation of the residential community doesn't have to meet I can understand, but I don't think you're right. It takes a professional manager to put accounts in front of a residential community assembly as often as possible. We need all the tenants to be familiar with what he's doing and how he's doing. If you give this opportunity, it will turn into a practice that easily believing the owners say – oh, here, so let it be the president of the tenant's congregation that will only communicate and they will be released from that communication. That's not good. These solutions exist in various places, especially in companies, where you can give some authority, etc. I don't think that's good in this case, and there's only one man who should be communicating on behalf of the congregation of the living community with the professional manager. So I suggest you adopt this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11714	The name above the article 41 and article 41 of the amendment was submitted by Gordana Comic. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11715	Rubrum is a congregation of residential communities. The rights of two positions of this Article 41 are interesting. The first position defines - members of the congregation of the residential community are all owners of special parts. The second attitude says – when the owner of a special act is a legal person, his legal representative and the person he has authorised participates in the work of the assembly. I told you, when I asked for financial reports, that after article 35, I would come back with a question, since the explanation is that this congregation has a PIB, it has a home number and, of course, it's listed in the APR, but it doesn't file financial reports, because the accounting member says that residential buildings, and then it will be understood that residential communities and congregations are the same as residential buildings. What will happen to residential buildings where half is a third, how, in large cities, especially business space? What's going on, how do you determine what's going to happen to the financial reports? How does he make payments? Why is he doing this? It's not just a question of how to tell you -- it's in the Accounting Act, because there's no housing law, no congregations, but it's an important question because you'll have a difference between the case and the case and you'll have an interpretation and because you'll have interpretations, so I'm asking them to be deleted, because every member that essentially gets in your rights, whether it's the applicant, or the administrator, or if it's one of the tenants, you're putting this law into interpretation of their rights. That's not good for anybody. That's why I'm asking that the defined provisions be deleted as well as the entire law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11716	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11717	There's no confusion, even though you say there might be. Article 16, I repeat again, says – the residential community is all the owners of the business parts of the residential, or residential and business building, when you are already talking about this business space within the residential building, and there are completely another business buildings that are then registered as associations still giving reports. These don't give financial reports.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11718	Thank you. Members of the Devere parliamentary group submitted together to the 41st Amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport and Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11719	Of course, we are pleased that this amendment has been accepted. We are pleased to accept a fine number, to put it this way, of the opposition amendment, but it still does not reduce the fact that this law is bad, that it is at the expense of Serbian citizens, that it will impose additional obligations on them and that it should vote against it. So I urge all MPs in the National Assembly to do what our duty is, as citizens' representatives, and to reject a law like this in the interest of citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11720	The 41st Amendment was jointly submitted by Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11721	Dear Presidents of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is one important member. Essentially, the legislator suggests that the owner of the apartment must report to the manager or professional manager to whom he has rented the apartment and give its information. I don't think the owner of the apartment should report to the manager he rented the apartment to because, if he wants, the owner of the apartment, to retain his right to manage and if he participates in the maintenance costs of the building, then he also appears at the sessions of the congregation of the residential community and has no need to give that information to the manager. So, don't make the citizens of Serbia sort of show up, and the wardens will tell who gave whom the leased apartment. It's not their job. There are laws that are regulated to apply, if you wanted to take a rent tax. There is a law dealing with lease taxes and by which owners are obliged to report it and there are ways to determine it. We have proposed this amendment that if the lease agreement states that the tenant will participate in building management and participate in maintenance costs, then it is of course that such a contract and such information will be registered to the manager because then the tenant can come and participate in the assembly of the residential community. Don't do this. There's no reason for you to make knots out of the manager of residential buildings.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11722	The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11723	Therefore, the disputed provision of this article is – the owner of the special section is required to provide the manager with information on the lease and notice of whether the tenant will participate in the work of the Assembly in place of the owner of the special part, within 30 days from the conclusion of the lease agreement with the third party. It's this knotted part of this law that shouldn't be there. It means that these things are reported to a manager, and we heard in today's debate, because the obligations of these managers are so great, and there is no fee for them, that they will probably be professional managers, and then we open the door for a knot in the state where everyone needs to report to the administrators, and they will get licenses, of course, by the party line, so we get SNS managers across Serbia and all the residential entrances in Serbia. So this shouldn't be in the law, it should be thrown out, as well as the manager's obligation, too. We support the amendment to delete this. This is unacceptable. To remind the minister, she has not yet responded – how many housing communities do we expect and how many managers will eventually be? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11724	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11725	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I suggest that this amendment be rejected because the warden has the right to know who the tenant of the apartment is. Maybe someone who turned their backs, maybe a Pink Panther, maybe some escaped taxpayer, maybe some crazy bankruptcy manager, and certainly the information the owner of the apartment delivers about the tenant can help the manager know exactly who's in that apartment. It could be some kind of terrorist, some kind of robber, some kind of secix. In this regard, the controller may use competent authorities, if they are interested in knowing where the person is, the fugitive taxpayer, etc., to make it easier for officials to identify persons. Apparently, my aunt didn't bring the cure, and I said two colorful ones, not three green ones.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11726	Members of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted together to the 41st amendment. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11727	Thank you. This is one of the most controversial members of this law because it obliges the owners of the apartments to give contracts they have concluded with potential SNS activists who have come to the position of the professional manager as is now coming to all positions in Serbia, which is through SNS membership. Mrs. Mihajlovic, what does the manager want with the data from the apartment rental contract? What's he gonna do with that data? Why would he need a contract of insight so he could know if the householder’s homeowner or any tenant would be involved in the work of the household congregation? Most importantly, where does the law say he won't abuse that data? You're asking me where you can look to see that your managers will be members of the SNS? Look at public enterprises. Look at everyone who's got jobs per so-called. services under contract. Look at the notes. Look at the executioners. Look at any position that exists in Serbia, which only SNS members have come to, and then tell me again that we have no reason to believe that professional managers, and all managers will be professional, will be SNS members. You force citizens to contract with highly sensitive personality data to give members and SNS activists an insight or to use them for who knows all the purposes, because the law absolutely doesn't say why these people need housing contracts. If there is a reason to know who will participate in the work of the household congregation, there are other ways to determine it. It is enough to give them only a notification about it or, in the end, that manager will probably see who appears in the tenants' congregations and there are other ways to find out who will participate in the work, and they cannot be provided with contracts, because these contracts contain data that they cannot have.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11728	The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11729	Thank you. I would like to invite fellow MPs not to support this amendment for the reason we have one situation. This is the situation. There's a building where the advice of the tenant who made a contract with some mobile phone network, where they pay 15,000 euros a month. With an amendment like this, we can't see what the tenants and those of each other are, individuals, sharing that money. In this way we have the opportunity to see all those in the apartment, to see by contract who it is, how it works, where it works, and how it works, whose apartment it is, and this way we have everything recorded. We have a case in Nis where a building signed a contract with a certain operator where they receive certain funds between 10 and 15,000 euros a month, and there is only one resident who is the beneficiary of these funds. I think this law gives us the opportunity to eliminate all these things, to make everything right, and I think that we should reject this amendment and this law to support it without reservation, because the law is good, because the law is great, because this law gives everyone the opportunity to know who it is, where it works, and how it works, and whose apartment it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11730	Just a little intervention.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11731	Okay. Since it took me a while to consult here, because I listened to you, Mr. Kostadinovic, when you spoke about article 41. On this occasion, I have also consulted with the President of the Assembly. So, your amendment will be accepted because we consider the 4th position where it writes – the owner of the specific part of the building, etc., informs the building manager that the tenant will participate in the cost of maintenance and building management. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11732	Thank you. Srjan Nogo, on this amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11733	I need to make sure I understand the previous speaker correctly, which says there are certain cases where certain money is distributed in buildings, and that the SNS is not involved in that division, so we need one of these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11734	Let's get back to the amendments, better. Sonja Pavlovic submitted to the 41st Amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11735	Article 41(4), that is the disputed position that we have discussed before. Now we'll see if the Minister accepts my amendment as well. The owner of the special part shall be obliged to supply the owner of the leaser with a third party within 30 days of the conclusion of the lease agreement with the third party, and I think this should be deleted, as there is no need to impose this obligation on the owners of the particular part, because if the notice is not delivered, the owner shall certainly retain the right to participate in the work of the Assembly and shall certainly retain the obligation to participate in the costs to be regulated in the proposed position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11736	Dusan Pavlovic submitted to the 41st amendment. You want a word? The word is by MP Dusan Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11737	I thank the respected citizens. I also submitted a solution that can be used instead of this attitude that says – if the owner of the special section does not provide information about the tenant and notice whether the tenant will participate in the work of the Assembly instead of the owner, the owner is believed to want to continue to participate in the decision-making of the Assembly and is ready to bear the costs of maintenance and investment. So the possibility is that the owner of the housing unit, simply, without any notification to anyone, anyone, without delivering the contract data, will extend to do what he's been doing so far. I think it would be a good idea for this solution to be considered alternative, to include instead of what you've just accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11738	The name above the article 42nd and the Article 42nd amendment was filed by Gordana Comic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the DS Group together submitted to Article 42 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Sonja Pavlovic submitted to Article 42 of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11739	Article 42(1), point (1), in which the housing community decides to take credit. A very important member and a very important attitude. Since decisions by the congregation of the residential community could also be made without the consent of individual owners of specific parts, given the Article 43 of this law, which provides for a majority decision, which provides for solidarity with Article 47, the obligation to repay credits may fall on the burden of owners who do not agree to take the loan. These are very serious things and should not be taken, people should be placed, owned by special housing units, in a situation where they pay off loans they really didn't want, unless the housing community can pay them off. And how will the living community repay them? She should only have funds to maintain. It's not a profit organization. So there's a very large possibility of abuse in paying off these loans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11740	The 42nd amendment was jointly submitted by Marko Djurisic, and Nenad Konstantinovic. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11741	Dear President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament. There is a different practice from the municipality to the municipality and today, under the old law, when it comes to statements by the owners of apartments that, for example, give consent to the building, for some building, or for the conversion of common or re-purpose parts of the building. Different practice is that someone is asking for these statements to be confirmed, and someone is not asking for the statements to be confirmed. Where that decision is taken at the meeting of the congregation of the residential community and when all are signed on that decision or on the record, that minutes or decisions shall be certified by the seal of the residential community. And that's okay. Then it's certified for it, guaranteed by the one who knocked the seal. If those statements go on special papers, which is this case that you predict is possible and outside the session to make a decision, that means that on special paper each owner is signing and giving consent to that and that. It must then be certified to avoid abuses, and your associates, I know it reliably, know very well how many hundreds and thousands of abuses we've had in giving consent where they've been forged signatures and then these disputes are being conducted in court for years and years, and they can't be resolved. That's what I'm telling you from experience, as a lawyer representing these disputes. I suggest that there be an opportunity to verify, to be certified a statement that is given individually for any of these decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11742	On behalf of members of the 43rd and of the 43rd amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 43rd amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Aleksandra Stevanovic. The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11743	Ladies and gentlemen, the respected citizens of Serbia, we have one member who has one great specificity, which is how it is voted. At one point, many housing owners, who we know about how much we have in Serbia, and a completely unconfirmed number of owners of residential communities, are wondering what kind of voting is. Let's imagine a limited-responsibility society. You have 5 partners, or five members, not partners, one has 50% share, the other has 20% share, the third has 10% share, and the fourth and fifth have 5% share. Someone prescribes and says, the owner of each stake has one vote, so he has five votes, no matter how much your share is in the company. The buildings are similar to that form of organization, not national democracy. It's completely illogical, if you want to represent the principles that exist everywhere in the world when the housing is arranged, that someone who has 50% property over the building, in their housing unit, has one vote, and that someone who has 5 or 10% ownership in their housing unit, but has a separate housing unit, also has one vote. This is bad for many other reasons, for example, by introducing such a way of simply discriminating people who have bigger apartments on average, thus destimulating them to invest more. Why would they invest more when they can outvote them? Such a principle is quite devastating, although I would like to present it this way in a more plastic way, let's imagine the list that won the elections - Aleksandar Vukic, Serbia wins. Would anyone now agree to make decisions, when it comes to ruling skills, with a simple majority of the heads of parliament's groups that came from that group? I believe you wouldn't agree at any point, because you know who's bigger, who's older, and whose word has more weight. So I think that this principle should also be applied to residential buildings, so that according to the size of your apartment, there are so many votes in the total area of the building and the owner of the housing unit.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11744	Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11745	What you're proposing, in addition to this argument that you've got, to add one more thing, it's absolutely against the constitution. So the Constitutional Court's decision says it's not possible to determine it to the surface of the apartment. I think it's also in practice, if we're working out now, I think it's completely and logical. What does that mean? If you have a 500 square-square apartment and someone else is 20.30 square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-s, someone who doesn't know how many votes. The Constitutional Court's decision says it's not possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11746	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11747	Excuse me, how could this amendment have been passed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs? Then we have to ask that question.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11748	Marjan Risticevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11749	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment passed by the Committee because it was filed in accordance with the constitutional procedure. But the relations proposed between the tenants themselves are not in line with the Constitution. Some of the teachers who turned their backs here should have known that if they hadn't jumped out of design into the economy. One more thing, I'm going to vote for this amendment because this group from behind seems a little smarter to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11750	The 43rd amendment with the correction was filed by Sonja Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11751	The meeting of the Assembly shall be held at least three days before the meeting is held, except in cases where the notice may be pointed out on the day of the Assembly's maintenance. This is Article 43(6). We believe that by setting such short deadlines, it is practically Friday for the appointment of the Assembly, and especially the possibility of an appointment of the Assembly without a deadline, it devises the right of the owner of special parts to participate in the work of the Assembly. We believe that given the powers of the Assembly, as well as the fact that there is a building manager, as an operational body that can take the most urgent measures and which can be coerced, there is no such thing as an emergency assembly that would justify calling a session on the same day. So these are sessions where very important questions can be brought and there's no reason for it to be an emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11752	Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11753	This amendment should be read in accordance with the position before that. So, I'm talking about an emergency session appointment, the 4th-member's position in 43rd says - if the owner doesn't respond three times...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11754	You've wasted group time. Thank you. You are not authorized, but Sonja Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11755	I spoke as authorized, and you didn't count my time properly.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11756	The MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted together to Article 43 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11757	The amendment only solves part of the problems that exist in this article. The biggest problem remains, and that is that you members of the 4th and 5th predict that some people are excluded from the quorum, individual owners, deny the right to decide what will happen to the work, and the way you have defined the calling of the tenant's congregation, you have actually made it very easy to do so. You say, if someone is three times unreachable, now I don't know how we prove that he's unavailable, what we do with situations if we say someone goes to his apartment on purpose three times, when they know he's not there at the time. How do you even prove that? The very fact that the householder congregation can schedule on the day of maintenance opens up the possibility that the householder’s congregation is scheduled just in those days and on those days when those tenants whom someone wants to exclude from the decision cannot come. This is very dangerous when it comes to building up. Someone in theory can call a congregation of tenants on the same day that it will be held and do so in a way that none of the tenants, for example, who live on the last floor cannot attend and thus can those people who live on the last floors absolutely exclude from making decisions to build on or to raise loans. The simple way that you have defined that the householder's congregation can be scheduled on the same day that it is held, and that whoever doesn't come three times loses the right to be part of the quorum and participates in the decision tells us that you intend to exclude some people from the vote. So far, for example, a permit has been required for the upgrade by 100% of the residents. This will no longer be the case and the decision to upgrade will be able to make a minority of residents if you exclude from the quorum those people who, for example, cannot respond, to come to the session, and the session is called on the same day that it should be held.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11758	Thanks, time's up. Just to let you know, I received a letter from RTS that as of 20.00 hours, they have been unable to transfer the meeting of the Serbian Parliament in a direct transmission due to a live competition for Serbia's best technological innovation for 2016, titled "Innovation, a step further". The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11759	Everything you've said is really not true and does not stand in any member of the law. In particular, it does not stand in Article 43 of the Law. When the third time he didn't come to the session, he couldn't do the quorum. The moment he shows up again, on the fourth, fifth, etc., then he votes. That's one. Two, I'm sorry, you still haven't explained to me what you were looking at, how you projected that professional managers would be all SNS and that we would actually control and break into buildings, since you were talking all the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11760	The 43rd amendment was jointly submitted by Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic. The word is Nenad Constantinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11761	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Minister, I don't think you've foreseen a way of calling the apartment owners' sitting, i.e. at the meeting of the congregation of the residential community. Why? We have one law, there are more than 100 pages and everything detailed, and the way we call the owner of the apartments is through an advertising board that may exist, maybe it doesn't exist, it's not found that this invitation can be mailed or e-mailed by what we've proposed with this amendment, and there's practically no evidence of whether or not someone has been invited. You have people who don't live in buildings, and don't betray apartments, just flats are empty, live abroad or live in another building. There are many of them, even in Belgrade. See the census that you have less on the list of people than voters in the voter list. So how is the owner of an apartment that doesn't live in the building gonna find out that he's been invited to a session of the apartment building assembly, if he doesn't come every day and he doesn't go around the ad board and sees that that call exists? We've suggested to be sent an e-mail call and an e-mail call, of course he can go over the ad board, but you don't have any proof that anyone's been invited. That someone doesn't live there, he hasn't seen it, he hasn't seen it three times, and he's shut himself out of the quorum, and then a very small number of people can make a decision on credit borrowing and the building's upgrade.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11762	Thank you. The name above the article 44th and member of the 44th amendment was filed by Gordana Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11763	Thank you. To decide the congregation and the reason why I want this article deleted is the 5th attitude that speaks about how the congregation works and decides. It reads – the owner of the special section can also vote by written or electronic means, in which case, for the purposes of calculating the quorum, it is considered that the member of the residential community attends the session only when he votes. And what does he vote about if he wasn't around? So, you've introduced an attitude that no matter what the topic of the meeting of the residential community, whoever suggests, whatever, whoever votes by electronic or written means, it's a quorum. I don't know if you understand how many illustrations this law has in depriving rights. What does attitude mean? While I was reading the law, I understand you had some intentions, but it doesn't say here. The good intentions of the law are not written, it says here that the owner can vote by written or electronic means and in that case, for the purposes of calculating the quorum is considered to be present. Now you explain to me how this is happening, that he wasn't at the session in the debate, and he has no idea what it is, but the vote? Do you understand that it's about three million apartments and I don't know how many living communities there will be, there won't be less than 100,000, that it's about the rights written in the Constitution, about sensitive human rights. Then you put this one can vote, never mind. I don't even want to imagine what this might look like in reality. So please think again.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11764	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11765	We just made it easier to manage. Among other things, we accepted the amendment where it is proposed to deliver the agenda anyway, since you asked what was voted on. But why don't we vote electronically? Here, I'll vote the rights in my resident congregation. Simply, it's a way to facilitate the business of building management. On the other hand, I have to admit that this member of the law came from the president of the household. It really is. So we put it into the law because it's a simple practice, but we accepted the agenda, which you're absolutely right.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11766	The 44th Amendment was jointly submitted by Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic. The word is Nenad Constantinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11767	Dear Presidents of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, we have asked in attitude 1. to delete the word "ordinary", because it is said - the assembly of the residential community makes decisions by simple majority of votes. There is no ordinary majority of votes, as there is no unusual majority of votes. Don't put on dates that don't exist and don't mean anything. You know what the qualified majority is, you know what the simple majority is, you know what most of the present are, or most of the total number or three-quarters of the total number is, etc. Thus, it does not exist and does not mean anything. The second thing, I suggest that, in addition to this two-thirds qualified majority, there is a three-quarter line when it comes to credit borrowing. Credit borrowing of a residential building and a residential community ultimately leads to all the owners of the apartment being responsible for the return of the loan. It imposes an obligation on everyone, so I think that there should be a larger majority who decides on it. I think that you should consider these proposals for the reason that, as I have already said, you have not accepted this amendment, you have adapted all these provisions by allowing the householder's congregation to meet and say - we will make all these decisions by a quorum majority, or most of the number present, and thus to derivate all these provisions. So in these next points of view, we're correcting it. Think again about this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11768	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Momo Colakovic and Miroljub Stankovic submitted to the 44th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Canak, Goran Cabradi, Marinika Tepic, Nada Lazic and Olena Papuga submitted to the 44th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the Dveri Group together submitted to Article 44 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the People's Messenger is Mary Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11769	Therefore, we have provided for a change in attitude 2 so that it reads: "The availability of common parts of the building and the confidence of the management of the professional manager of the residential building assembly decides most of which are two-thirds of the total number of residents, while the crediting of the residential community of the residential community decides unanimously." I will read another important amendment that we have proposed in paragraph 6: "The owner of the special work may also vote through the representative, or power of attorney, and the power of attorney shall be issued in writing and kept in the record of the work of the assembly. The power to decide on the availability of common parts of the building must be certified in accordance with the Immobility Transport Act." And most important: "The credit borrowing authority must be certified by the public notary unless the mortgage is established on the residential building when it has to be certified in the form of a public record". In view of the fact that credit borrowing is imposed on all owners of specific parts of the building, it is therefore necessary to agree on all for the purpose of such operation. Otherwise, a rule would be introduced on the negotiation of a third party's obligation. Also, there is no protection for socially endangered people. Accordingly, poor owners would be at risk of losing their apartment due to the inability to pay off such credit debts, and since there are no mechanisms to protect such persons from over-indebtedness. In the event that rules are adopted in accordance with Article 17(3) of this Act, those same rules cannot apply to the provisions relating to the borrowing of a resident community, and for the reason that there is a possibility of abuse in such a way that the ignorant, therefore, legally ignorant party, older persons, less educated, can easily agree to the rules of the owner which would be at their expense. Furthermore, the vote by written or electronic means enables abuse in the event of the availability of common parts of the building and credit borrowing of the residential community, and therefore it is necessary that the owner of the specific part of the facility be directly present when making such a decision, i.e. through the authorising officer whose authority has been certified in accordance with the Law on Transport of Immobility, the Law on the Authentication of Signature, manuscripts and transcripts and the Mortgage Act. In fact, we're undermining that credit borrowing is what puts the biggest unrest here and it can cost our citizens the most. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11770	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Dusan Pavlovic submitted to the 44th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Dusan Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11771	Thank you. Dear citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 44(2), which deletes the provisions relating to, that is, the part of the position 2 relating to credit borrowing. So I think that this two-thirds majority, which refers to one part of the decisions that should be made, should not be applied to credit borrowings, because it is a principle that, I think, is bad and is otherwise applied at the level of the Republic of Serbia. So one majority, which is either two-thirds or, say, super-half, makes provisions that then bind all citizens. Here, to illustrate that, to make it easier for citizens to understand, since it's about their pockets in both cases. Imagine that you have a public company, say "Srbigas", which, through irresponsible business, makes some kind of loss, some kind of debt, and then the Republic of Serbia makes two-thirds of the majority in the Assembly a law or decides to be in charge, to take credit on the international financial market to cover that debt. Then who's paying off that loan? All Serbian citizens pay off. So, with one company's irresponsible business, we all have to participate in financing it. In this case, in order to avoid similar situations, I suggest that the two-thirds majority not be the majority to decide on credit borrowing, but to give it to another type of majority, which I have proposed in the next amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11772	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11773	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I suggest not to adopt this amendment, not because the professor of the university has turned his back on me to a farmer. Tomorrow I can expect him to refuse breakfast, lunch and dinner, because we farmers are involved in it, maybe turn his back on the plate, but my God. I suggest that this be rejected for the simple reason that the tenants, let's say, if they want to fix the elevator, put some more modern ones on, they have the first to raise credit. If we had adopted this amendment, we would have no right to do so. And with that, no matter how much this is suggested by a respected university professor who turned his back on a farmer, I suggest that this amendment be rejected.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11774	The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11775	The previous speaker who claims to be a farmer, although I don't see it that way, certainly doesn't deal with agriculture, because that he couldn't sit around all day in the hall here, is the point that this amendment should not be accepted, or that it should remain a legal solution as it has been formulated. Now, look here, it's extremely controversial that two-thirds of the residents can commit certain persons to taking a loan. Imagine now the situation, the building in Belgrade, in the city centre, needs to be fixed up, isolation needs to be done, building entry needs to be arranged, significant investment, and we have a huge number of such buildings. However, we have the impoverished owners. In the light of the law, on page 30 of the reasoning, you find that we have a case of hyper inflation eating up the entire value and dissipating the home policy and that we have come to a situation where we have a large number of poor owners. I reminded you that during the public debate, representatives of your ministry, you said there is no right to live in the EU. Do you want to impose obligations on us with this law, because local self-government will list the heights necessary for the investment maintenance of buildings? Do you want to take away the only substance that Serbian citizens have, and these are exactly apartments owned by themselves? Do you want the EU to do to us what it did to Greece? When they analyzed why the Greeks were able to resist, it's because they have a large number of properties in their own possession. Well, so for the citizens of Serbia, let's take these properties from them by forcing someone to take out a loan to take care of the elevator. Well, they don't all have the money to finance that loan and pay back those commitments. You're putting a loan on someone he doesn't agree to. That's absolutely inadmissible.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11776	The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11777	Before I go to article 44, you know that there are, if you've read the law, and you're a lawyer, the rule of the owner. In the document, the owner's rule, owners can agree to vote unanimously on certain issues. In that sense, for example, the mention of a loan here can be regulated that way. If it's not regulated by the owner's rule, it has to be regulated somehow, so in that sense there's a 44th term where it's said 2/3. So the rules of the owner, the owners of the apartments will determine whether they want to vote unanimously on credit debt or not. I have to admit that you surprised me because I see that there are common almost amendments and some new political alliances between you and let's just say enough was interesting.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11778	The word is by the MP Sonja Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11779	What do housing loans have to do with political alliances? I couldn't really figure it out now, but let's get back to the amendments, as the minister turned us into these pre-election combinations. I find it extremely unfair for owners, any owner who is opposed to taking credit to get into the payment of the same loan, especially which could lead to major abuses. If the legislator felt that everyone should make decisions in that congregation, why not write it that way? Why was it left behind so that we could be in a dilemma whether someone who wasn't informed in time and who wasn't involved in those decisions would repay a loan that he wasn't at all agreed to take. In that sense, unrelated to those pre-election coalitions with which the minister is now seizing us, I believe Mr. Nogo is right. With this law, the legislator tells the citizens of Serbia – do not act as a standard that does not belong to you anymore. We've tried to keep that standard out of your hands, we've made you poor, we've cut your wages, we've cut your pensions, sell what you have and go to...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11780	I beg your pardon for the amendment, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11781	Well, there you go, that's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11782	No, that's not it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11783	How isn't that?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11784	It's a simple administrative procedure, and you mention some...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11785	And the pre-election coalitions are in the amendment? Please respect a member of the 108th President, then in any case, not just individually.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11786	I respect him, co-workers.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11787	Well, respect him and lead the order of the session, and when you react equally to everyone, I will respect you, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11788	A colleague of the minister just said you have similar amendments to the Dveri parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11789	Well, you're skilled at it, but not enough, my colleague was more honest than you and she said what she wanted. It's okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11790	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11791	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Articles 106 and 107. First of all, the previous speaker did not talk about the agenda point, he did not talk about the amendment more than half. Second of all, I don't know what that is over there, which is a gesture? And they're gonna turn down one farmer's food tomorrow just because they think I'm not worthy to consume that food at all. Therefore, the dignity of the National Assembly should be respected. It is said here that we have reduced wages and pensions, it appears as if wages and pensions are being divided, and thus the dignity of the National Assembly is being violated, given that wages and pensions must be earned. They seemed to share it. I think the Rules of Procedure have been injured and dignity violated. To try sweet fruit, to eat delicious food, you must sow wheat and plant wood to enjoy it. Therefore, pensions and wages are earned, dignity has been violated. I'm not asking for a vote, but it's gonna be a little bit of consideration in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11792	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Srdjan Nogo.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11793	First of all, I'm going to point to Article 103's injury. The gentleman before me took advantage of reporting to the Rules of Procedure to make his political views known, and so far in practice you have sanctioned, taken up the time of the parliamentary group, so I ask that it be in the future. And now I'd like to pick up the amendment later.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11794	I don't think he's injured Article 103. Mr. Risticevic was in the dark. If you want the National Assembly to make a statement in voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. All right, he'll come out. Anyone else want a word by amendment? The word has Srdjan Nogo.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11795	Let me quickly try to explain the loan situation. For example, imagine your building, four floors, you want to introduce a panoramic elevator. You're on the upper floor interested, but the neighbors downstairs are not interested. You didn't agree, you didn't make a deal on the rules of the owner, and in this way you can provide a two-thirds majority, introduce a panoramic elevator, raise a 20 000-euro loan, how long it would take for you to build that panoramic elevator and load your neighbors from the ground floor, and they're not interested or they don't need a panoramic elevator. One troublesome situation, but you'll admit very easily possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11796	The word has been made by Professor Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11797	To repeat once again, the rules of the owner should exist in the rules of the owner, we can determine it to be unanimous, that when we have to vote, we have to decide on such important things as taking credit, that it is unanimous. If you don't make the rules of the owner, as you say, then the tenants, or the owners of the apartment, agree to Article 44 when we talk about building management and maintenance. Or you don't think it should be regulated in any way and that we always have some vacuum in that part that's very important. And as far as my four floors are concerned, it is, I live in a four-story disgust and I don't know how you know that, but good.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11798	By amendment, MP Srdjan Nogo.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11799	But why are you leaving the situation that the law needs to keep that formulation. We have proposed an amendment where we ask for 100% consent to take credit, and some of the rules of the owner's permission to be, say, less consent. Let's turn the situation around, so they can in the rules of the owner when they agree on less consent. Although I don't see what's controversial about staying in charge of 100 percent and borrowing. I don't think that would be at all controversial or at the expense of Serbian citizens. Why do you care so much that it is not 100%, unless you intend to impose through your ministry and local self-government investment maintenance, mandatory isolation in buildings that citizens will not be able to pay. I agree they're necessary, but we can't pay for them.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11800	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11801	Ladies and gentlemen, now I'm really speechless. How the rules of some tenants' congregations can be older than the law, aman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11802	The word has been made by Professor Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11803	I really don't know what you're talking about. So what you're saying may sound interesting, but it's not. In a member, I think in one of the 60's, there's a possibility of how it can be invested right now, or where everything can be financed by works in the building. No one here imposes on anyone. It's just a matter of order. Why do you keep going from this conspiracy theory, we're going to impose something on someone now, so don't you think we should finally take care of these buildings, that it really looks like every country in this world, and not just for us to do it this way? In doing so, for the first time, the law correctly assumes that it is possible for you to have grants, that local self-governments can invest, that they can, of course, have the opportunity to borrow credit if they're interested in such a thing. The energy efficiency you're talking about. Well, it's for the good of all of us living in the building. Is that right? Because this is the possibility of reducing our costs if we do something to make our buildings efficient, or energy efficient, and a million ways there is how we can finance it. Let's read it once, try to forget if you're being filmed, whether you're going to show up in front of the citizens, but see if it's good for the citizens to make a law like this, or if you're still behind the fact that it's wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11804	The word is by the MP Sonja Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11805	The energy efficiency you mention, Minister Mihajlovic, is very important. However, it is important for all objects. Here on the assembly building is our energy passport of this building, it's for the worst level of objects, so for level G, for public buildings. Why does the Assembly not have enough funds to replace the terms of the Institute for the Protection of Monuments windows in the way that it should, so as not to have any losses on this facility? Why doesn't the Serbian government put external climate units so they're not on the facade outside?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11806	You want to go back to the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11807	And that's what the citizens of Serbia are asking for. It's an amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11808	The energy passport of the National Assembly? To disappoint you colleagues, to disappoint you...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11809	How can you ask citizens for something that the Serbian government doesn't respect either.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11810	Will you let me finish? Don't tell lies. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has an energy passport.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11811	There are, but not enough for public facilities. That's the worst G classification, energy class.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11812	So he's got it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11813	It's standing on the wall at the entrance to the building.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11814	So you're telling the truth. Just so we know.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11815	I'm not telling the truth, I can also...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11816	Mr. Arsic, so you can't get into the controversy. Sit on the benches, and enter the controversy with the Messengers of the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11817	The dignity of the National Assembly was marred.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11818	Here's the thing. Let's put this stuff on. The facades should be fixed, but you should think, Madam Minister, that Serbian citizens don't deserve to have salaries like all the normal world, the same income, and that everything else in the country is arranged like that world you're calling for, and not -- ow. So he's angry when we mention citizens' incomes, and he's not bad when we talk about citizens' obligations. He can't do one thing, and the other can't do it. Let's start with something good for the citizens. I'd support all of that, and I know we need it, and there's nowhere to finance it. If we had to finance, so we would finance it in schools, hospitals, buildings owned by the state, state property, institutions of the state, and we wouldn't impose it on the citizens, when the state itself can't do it, how will the citizens?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11819	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11820	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I must intervene again. The wages are earned and it is ours to arrange for the state so that our people can make a fair living and dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11821	The word has been made by MP Srdjan Nogo, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11822	We cannot earn how much SNS can impose on Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11823	Comrade Nogo, you just accused one political party of kidnapping someone. I'm asking you to stick to the subject from now on. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11824	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Right to the replica, mentioning the party. Someone just said that he or they can't do anything. It's not a bad thing to look at what someone here can't really do. Not the one who caused this replica seems to be being controlled, so he had to do what he did in the amendment's debate. Why? To make him look interesting, he sounds good to himself, to throw something from the other side of the hall. Is that the respect of the Rules of Procedure? Is this decent behavior in line with what the National Assembly and the function of the MP should be? I don't think so. It is not possible to control the one who, as I recall today, smiles to fellow Milletić, to speak funnyly about the presentation of his colleague and can not seem, unfortunately, to note that Col. Miletic is a good MP and that he could learn from him and about the relationship to the National Assembly and about how much an MP should care about and the work he is doing and the matter that we are dealing with here. It's the easiest thing to make fun of and try to be more powerful in your own eyes. Mr. Miletic didn't deserve it. Maybe I wouldn't have to remind myself of this if I didn't see that some of them obviously weren't able to control themselves. Before they go one step further than they'd like, even when they look at all these video clips that they're recording, and they're fed up with themselves at home, to invite them to stop in time anyway. If we want to send out of this room the kind of picture we think the National Assembly deserves, the finger on the forehead, the lady and gentlemen, and everyone for themselves to wonder. If tomorrow the citizens don't appreciate the National Assembly, those who do it, no one else to blame, they themselves know they've contributed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11825	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. I'm sorry, Mr. Risticevic, I didn't know it was a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11826	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, except for my ongoing injury, Article 106, Article 107, Article 108. Mr. Chairman, you take care of the order and my line that reads was caused by a very negative comment – that money is not divided, that wages are earned and that we need to edit the state, that our people are doing fair and that our work lives with dignity. That caused the anger outage, that someone said, I'm not SNS, that the SNS was kidnapping, etc. I don't have that impression, and I think the dignity of the National Assembly has been hurt. One more thing, the National Assembly is taking care of the president of the National Assembly. To make a good account, given that members of that group have the custom of ultimately radical elements of the type Pernar, Bosko Pernar, Ivan Pernar, do not know what is called, the far rightist from Croatia, have the custom of introducing extremely radical elements, to check that I am always safe and that something can happen behind my back, God forbid, because there are extremely suspicious elements here and that you keep us informed in the future when such radical elements are present at the session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11827	Mr. Risticevic, there was only one sentence. I couldn't even intervene, but I distracted my colleagues. Comrade Krasic, would you allow me to speak to my colleague, Mr Rističević? (Zoran Krasic, from the scene: The story of some radical elements. These are European elements. () For some MPs, the Rules of Procedure is a hopeless story, not worth it. National MP Dusan Pavlovic tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 44a be added after article 44a. The word is by MP Dusan Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11828	Thank you. Here, it has nothing to do with radicals. I have submitted this amendment as a continuation of the previous amendment. I suggest that a decision on credit borrowing of a building can only be made by consensus, i.e. the consent of all tenants and to be certified in accordance with the Act on the Authorisation of Signatures, manuscripts and transcripts. I'd like to explain one thing that's important to this, so the citizens understand why I'm asking for this. So, one is the ongoing maintenance of a building where tenants pay off a building-based company, intervene when emergency interventions occur, repairs the elevator, etc. It's a monthly fee paid by tenants and legally binding. But taking credit is another thing. You have to go to the bank and put all the tenants in the building. If most of them are two-thirds, that means you can hire some people, you can burden them, even though they, say, don't want to, or even though they can't pay that loan. That's wrong. I will remind you once again with the example of the Republic of Serbia in which we live. One public company makes a debt, the state is in charge of paying off that debt, we all have to pay it back, not the one who made that debt. That's wrong. The Minister said, "Let them decide how to make decisions." It can be two-thirds, it can be a consensus, so if the two-thirds majority wants it, it will decide to make a two-thirds majority decision on credit borrowing. That one-third that doesn't want it has no way of avoiding it. The only way to avoid this is to accept an amendment by which it is mandatory to make such decisions by consensus. Then everyone has that responsibility personally to take over the loan payment, if that's what they want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11829	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11830	Thank you. First, I'd like to apologize to some MPs because I may not have a good dictionary, a speech. I speak from the soul. We in Svreljig talk like that, or we're screaming, and someone may not understand it, but believe me, a large number of people in Serbia know what I want to say and what I say. Now I want to say that we don't accept this amendment, just because we have a large number of buildings and tenants, we have buildings that are in very poor shape and need to be fixed, but some of them don't want to. They just don't want it out of spite. That's why we have to give residents the opportunity to repair the building, to secure the funds, but again I say, we have the possibility where there are a large number of buildings that have received funds from the operator Mobtel, Telenor or VIP, at 15,000 euros a month. These funds shall not be distributed in the proper manner. We also have a passerby who told me – that's where you're going, that and that building, some gentleman, the president of that party, from that building you're going left. According to this law, that building is the building of that man or more residents live there. Once again I want to say that as a man and as an MP, Milija Miletic, president of the United Peasant Party, I have a dictionary to speak of, I understand a large number of citizens. So, I apologize, if someone doesn't understand what I'm trying to say, but believe me, people, I work correctly, I work honestly, working in the interest of all citizens with a special accent on southeastern Serbia and a special accent for the village, for agriculture, for the agrarian. I'm being domestic. Maybe I'm not speaking grammatically right, but trust me, a lot of people support me and support the policy I'm running.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11831	The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has his word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11832	As we have pointed out many times, Article 106. – The speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. As my esteemed colleague pointed out before me, when he pointed to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so Article 106, we are obliged to talk about the amendment. The amendment, as I understand it, we've been talking more than half an hour about credit-loaning the building. What does that have to do with antennas, the Sutanovac, a random passerby? I really don't know. The Shooter had that building, and they knew everybody before and now. He won't prove to us that the Shutanovac has a building. It's been known for years that he's been building that building, but let's talk about credit debt. I don't think it's right to say that people don't want to pay for facades, they just don't have the means, but let's talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11833	Comrade Nogo, you surprise me more and more every time. A colleague, Miletic, tried to explain the amendment in his own way and before that, gave even an apology that some might not understand it and that they are not laughing at him. Another thing, for all these years since I've been a member of the Parliament, I've never seen, heard, experienced someone in the Assembly from another Parliament group defending someone's amendment in the way you do. I think it's a lack of political maturity. Whether you have time to learn or not, we'll see. The word is by the MP Sonja Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11834	My colleague Arsic, you surprise me more and more every time. And don't tell us things. None of us here, most of us for sure, did mind how a colleague of Milly talks. We really don't mind, and I've already told you more than once that the highlights, unlike the prime minister, are not in the way. Mr. Milly, you can really say what you're saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11835	Are you after the amendment, colleague Pavlovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11836	The fact that he's not talking about the amendment, it's something else, and that's what he's paying attention to, and I'm asking you not to put words in our mouths. We know exactly what we wanted to say and what we heard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11837	The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11838	Thank you. I accept everything you say because I am democratically defined. I respect everyone. I was talking about the amendment. Why? There's a possibility, there's a building, there's tenants who have some kind of operator where they can get funds. These people don't have to take credit, and they're gonna need less credit. Therefore, everything has to do with crediting for energy efficiency. I support the government's proposal, I think he's a good member of the law, and this amendment should not be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11839	On behalf of members 45th and Article 45th of the amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11840	Thank you. Rubrum is a ‘quorum’. In three positions, this member says that the quorum for holding and working the session of the Assembly is a simple majority. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic has already proved that such a thing does not exist. So there's no ordinary or unusual. You have a qualified, you have a two-thirds...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11841	By amendment, Col. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11842	There's a quorum here that needs a simple majority. I say it needs to be erased, and now I'm going to say why, because it deeply penetrates people's fundamental rights. So in your first attitude, you're talking about the common majority, which doesn't exist. In the second attitude, you say, if the session of the congregation could not be held because of the lack of quorum, then it is called again at the earliest ten days and not later than 30 days. Then says the third position – the quorum for the maintenance and operation of the re-session makes one-third of the total number of members' votes, if the decision of the residential community does not determine a number of votes. Not only do you have ordinary majority and ordinary quorums, but you have a re-session. It can't. How can I tell you, you can't explain as much as that that's what people who have problems in buildings and everything else told you. This law cannot for these reasons and for the reasons why the rules of the owner allowed everything they wrote in the law to change, and here literally everything. So when you read the law carefully, you see it. I don't put it away for nothing. I know why I'm doing it. You can make fun of me as much as you want, but unfortunately I know what I'm doing with the amendments. So here we have a simple session with a simple majority and we have a re-session where most are not ordinary, but is one third. One-third can't.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11843	The 45th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11844	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is now being used as an ordinary majority of the total number, and in article 44 was the average majority of those present. Without need, we confuse all those who will use this law. That's why we suggest that the word change. It is known from the number of those present, which is the majority, and what is the total number. We've suggested erasing item 3. So one-third of the quorum of the repeat session. If you take an example that the apartment building has 15 apartments, it would normally be a quorum for a session to be at least eight, to be what is 50 plus 1, like most when voted in this assembly. At some re-session, if it doesn't come, it's enough for three to come and it can be decided, and if you have a simple majority to decide on, it's three votes. So, in a building where there are 15 apartments with three votes for and two against you, you can decide anything from the authority of the congregation of the residential community. I suggest that this point three be deleted, that we don't have that option with one third of the quorum, because otherwise the sessions should be held at least twice a year. I guess this, by way of a large law, we were able to motivate the owners of the apartments to come to the session twice a year, not to bring that quorum down to one-third.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11845	Thank you. The 45th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jasmina Karanac, Natasa Mihailović Vacic, Dr Predrag Jelenkovic and Branimir Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has the People's MP Jasmine Karanac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11846	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, fellow MPs, I think it is very important that the amendment of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia was accepted to Article 45 of this Law item 2, which reads in the basic text: "If the session of the assembly could not be held because of the lack of quorum, it is again called on at the earliest 10 and at the latest 30 days from the day the session was to be held, with the same proposed agenda." Of course, it's about the re-session. Given that it is prescribed that a new session must be held within 30 days at the latest, we have suggested that the earliest time limit for re-invoking the session be three days instead of 10 days, as sometimes it is possible to gather members of the housing unit within a short time period, especially if it has to solve something that is very urgent. I therefore find it very important and useful that this amendment has become an integral part of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11847	Thank you. The National MP Dusan Pavlovic, joint MPs Momo Colaković and Miroljub Stankovic, joint MPs Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojičić, Maja Vidinović, Goran Jesic, Balša Božović, Natasa Vukković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic, Veroljub Stevanović and joint MPs Nenad Canak, Goran Cabradi, Marinika Tepic, Nada Lazić and Olena Papuga submitted the same amendment. The word is by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11848	Thank you. I also submitted that this provision on the one-third quorum is deleted because it really lowers the legitimacy of the decision. So when 17% of residents, housing owners can make some kind of decision that obliges a vast majority of other people, the legitimacy of that decision is really controversial. See how the Government explained the refusal of this amendment: "Amendment is not accepted because in a specific case it is not about establishing a quorum for a regular but for a re-session". What difference does it make that it's repeated, I guess every session is a session. And then he says a little later: “If this very low quorum were not determined, no decision would be made. ” You know, if that's the reason to determine this low quorum, then let's, let's say, figure out 5% of the quorum. Then I'm sure any decision will be made. This provision does not apply anyway to those members of the law where it is necessary, for example, the two-thirds majority, such as the choice of administrators, for example. So it would be good to delete it because it reduces the legitimacy of decisions, and it also leads to confusion in the decision-making process. It will lead to exactly what many here have mentioned. If 17% of housing owners make some kind of decision that obliges the rest of the residents and owners of the housing units, people will start to rebel, and then volunteer managers will start leaving those jobs and all will belong to professional managers. That's not what we're supposed to want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11849	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11850	Thank you. We have criticised you for allowing a very small number of residents to make decisions after all of the tenants, and you are now in this attitude 3, whose erasure we propose, predict and allow even fewer residents to make decisions that will then apply to all the tenants. In that building that is spoken of by a colleague, Konstantinovic, who has 15 apartments, if we take away those you claim to be inaccessible and don't even enter the quorum, there would be four residents in theory, let's say there are three of whom the manager or professional manager claims to be inaccessible, although there is no evidence that he even invited them to any session of the household, so four residents in the building of 20 apartments can make quorum and make decisions that will then apply to all those other tenants who did not take part in the decision. You will indeed lead to the fact that no building manager will want to do so voluntarily and that all building managers will be professional managers and that they will have to be paid by citizens of the Republic of Serbia who will finance this bad law that has been made so that you can say that you are introducing order, and that you are actually introducing a mess. So I'll do it again. In a building of 15 apartments, four apartments can decide what will happen to the building and those decisions will oblige all other tenants living in those buildings. I don't know what your argument is that you don't accept this amendment and I don't know how you defend this, but we'd like to hear it, because this argument really isn't an argument. Don't mind, but it's no argument.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11851	I would like to thank my colleague Jerkov. Anyone else want a word? (No) On behalf of the members of the 46th and member of the 46th Amendment, MP Gordana Komic submitted. Here you go. The record is a rubrum. And in Article 46, in the first three, four sentences, you say what everything must contain the minutes, who must sign the minutes, therefore, the manager who is in charge of signing and keeping the minutes or finding the notary and all the persons who attended the sessions and participated in its work must sign the minutes. The person who participated but has objections to the record or refuses, the person who keeps the record will find that in the record, stating the reason for the refusal, so that the person who has the objection can make the remark and only enter it in the record. So, how many views do you want on what the record looks like? And then comes the final position, which reads: “The non-compliance, in accordance with the provisions of this article, has no effect on the fullness of decisions at the session of the assembly, if the result of the vote and the content of those decisions can otherwise be determined. ” So why do you prescribe? You spend four, five views on how the record is done, who has to sign, who makes a complaint, who can't, who can't, etc., and then you give the last position that says – if none of this happens, it doesn't affect the fullness of the decision. Not that he needs to be deleted, but he needs to be forgotten by erasing it. That kind of normative optimism will make rules that are inapplicable. And every building manager who gets this article on the record will say the same thing anyone else would say - well, I don't have to, it doesn't matter to me what it says in the record, it doesn't affect the fullness of the decisions. Don't give in to normative optimism, it can't be of any use. There's got to be measurement, there's got to be knowledge, and there's got to be talk about what it looks like in practice. Thank you. Member of the 46th Amendment was submitted by MP LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members of the 47th and the 47th Amendment, MP Gordana Komic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dusan Pavlovic submitted to Article 47 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11853	Thank you. Dear citizens of Serbia, I have suggested here that a little different determination be made of responsibility for the damage to the non-maintainment of the building that arises towards third parties. So this determines the responsibility of the housing community. I suggested that this change be made, and that if there is a case in which the housing community has a contract with the company that maintains the building, and it still does not maintain the building properly, which results in some damage, that the company, not the tenants, not the owners of the housing communities, be responsible for it. I'll give you an example of why I think it's a better solution. Look in Belgrade, it's an example of where I live, you have a city-building that's known not to care enough about many buildings that it maintains. So suppose I came to a building that was maintained by the City-States and that this building had a signed contract with the City-Accommodation community, that I had entered the elevator, that the elevator had failed, because it wasn't regularly maintained and there was damage. Are the tenants now to blame for the damage or is it the wrong company that unwittingly and irresponsiblely maintains the elevator, which was paid by the tenants to do so? This is usually a very widespread example in all major cities. All these utility companies that need to maintain housing are doing it very badly. That's why the buildings are abandoned. Not because the tenants are unconscious, not because the tenants do not want to keep buildings, but because they pay the money regularly, and in return from the utility companies that maintain the buildings do not get the right service. These companies must be responsible for the problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11854	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members of the 48th and of the 48th Amendment, MP Gordana Komic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. National MPs Nenad Canak, Goran Cabradi, Marinika Tepic, Nada Lazic and Olena Papuga submitted together to the 48th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 48th amendment. The word is Nenad Constantinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11855	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Minister, let's let the concept of one be done by the end. You mention there's an insurance agreement and you say the apartment building can close the insurance agreement. Well, it can be concluded, we didn't even have to write in the law that she can conclude, she can, so she can if she wants to. Legally, the apartment building has its P.I.B., has its own home number, of course it can. I have suggested this amendment that it must conclude the insurance contract, in case there is damage, and the damage means someone dies. A crack falls, a facade falls, a brick falls on someone's head, and that man dies, someone has to pay for that damage. That someone owns the apartment, these people may not have the money, and that's why it would be good for them to have insurance, so that the damage would be worth the insurance, not again to handle the proceedings for many years. So, I think you could adopt this amendment. You said in your explanation, we can't adopt because some NBS opinion says we can't. Well, if the NBS opinion says it can't, then how can it be a Article 48 that you suggested and you say the building can close. Well, can she or can't she? So the fact that it can't be mandatory, it's not true, we didn't get that opinion from the NBS. I, as a lawyer, have mandatory insurance and pay mandatory insurance for my work. Well, I don't know why they can impose on lawyers to pay other people, and they can't impose on the apartment building that he has to pay mandatory insurance? Believe me, we'd all be much safer, both the owners of the apartments and the passersby, to determine mandatory insurance.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11856	Thank you. On behalf of members of the 49th and of the 49th Amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Member of the 49th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. On Article 49 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the DS parliamentary group and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word is given by the MP Marija Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11857	Thank you. Therefore, the attitude relating to a residential community assembly, unless it selects a new administrator within 30 days, from the day the residential community is left without a manager, for any reason, each owner of a special work has the right to request the initiation of proceedings before the competent authorities of the unit of local self-government, for the appointment of a professional administrator. We suggested erasing this section. The proposed amendment, in fact, by the proposed amendment, removes the legal norm of the legislators of the law for the purpose of setting up a professional administrator by a unit of local self-government, in addition to leading to the mixing of the internal relationship between the owners and the specific parts of the facilities within the residential community, also represents red tape and imposing financial obligations on owners of specific parts of the facilities. You want me to do it again? I mean new and new financial obligations, both for the owners of special parts and for the citizens themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11858	The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11859	Thank you. We, as we have already said several times, are also saying that all DS amendments speak against professional managers. We believe that the very fact that someone will be paid for the same job that you expect from the former presidents of the residents' parliament, future managers to work for free, will lead to that none of the presidents of the tenants' parliament will want to accept the job of the manager, with all these obligations, with all these penalties and all these new duties they have. The result will be that all buildings or mosses of all buildings, I suppose, will be the exception, I can't say everything, but the vast majority of buildings, even those that have so far had the presidents of the tenants' assembly, will be forced to hire professional managers who will pay for these very tenants. I told you what I believe and why we believe it will be members of the SNS, so all the new occupations have passed, all the competitions that have so far been received to them are only members of the SNS and that's what every citizen of the Republic of Serbia will tell you, I don't need the MPs here telling you that the SNS employs its members in public enterprises, in contracts by work, as notaries, as perpetrators, etc. So, you will impose the obligation on citizens of the Republic of Serbia to pay SNS activists because the administrator's obligations are such that no one will want to do the job for free while there is the possibility of getting paid for it. That'll be the result of the law. It may not be your intention, but the result will be that all buildings will have a professional manager.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11860	The word has been made by Professor Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11861	I don't know what time the debate is and what amendment you keep saying that professional managers will be members of the SNS. I'm just asking you to tell me where you're looking, how you know, help me know. I'd like to know how you get that knowledge and how you know no one's gonna want to do that job. Come on, enlighten us all, explain it to us. Every time I ask you that, and I can't get an answer from you, it might be much simpler to do things, if we knew everything that was going to happen to us, as you say. The law is very clear. In fact, the law has set out what needs to be done, what are criteria, and why we have both a manager and a professional manager, or a forced one unless we choose our building manager within a month. The law doesn't know conspiracy theories, the law doesn't know hearsay, the law doesn't know crystal balls, none of which the law knows. The law is clear, the law is enforceable, but I'd like to know. Maybe that would mean something to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11862	Comrade Jerkov, you have the right to explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11863	Where am I looking at Mrs. Mihajlovic? I'm looking at public enterprises, I'm looking at municipalities where all SNS board members are employed in public enterprises. If you need names, I can give you names, let's say for the city I come from, 90% of the council members are employed in public enterprises after the election. I look at all those work contracts, the contracts that were in the Republic of Serbia's budget, I look at all the notes, I look at the executioners, and I see that they are members of the SNS or that they have come to work through connections in SNS. What is not clear to you is that you are the only person in Serbia who is not clear that through the SNS today comes to work and it is unfortunate that I have to explain to you the tenth time that this is the case. If you don't know that, I don't know where you live, Mrs. Mihajlovic. It is really inappropriate for you to convince anyone that there is no work through the SNS, as every citizen of Serbia knows it. I can't explain to you any more, the names don't need to be delivered to you, these managers of yours, I believe, all the information about all the citizens, including that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11864	Right to replication, Minister Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11865	You still haven't answered that question. Is it distasteful and you say - it's very untasteful for me to tell you. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the city: Inappropriate. That's inappropriate, I'm sorry. I don't want to go back to the period all the time, I won't, I'm trying to talk about the law and talk about what it's going to be and how it's going to be. Do you really think it's appropriate for you and DS to tell us how to get to work? In particular, even you. Did you get a job at Pitiæ's in any contest? I don't understand, what? Well, don't tell us, because not a single one, to express myself better, almost no single DS member has been elected anywhere in your time. Don't tell me, because at that time of yours, to call it that, there was no law to regulate it. So, all the time I've been trying not to explain to you how you've been doing your jobs. Well, we're not like that. I understand that you're going from that same mantra that the SNS is doing it for sure, but it's not like that and it's verifiable. So you can look at the ministries, you can look at these contracts, as you say, according to contracts, or temporary and occasional contracts. Well, look, it's publicly available data. Here, I'll give you all the contracts from the Ministry that I run. So people are admitted by how they know they're doing their job, not whether they're a member of this political party or not. I understand that you have this lead from the past, but let's try to think that not everyone is just like you. There are things different. So I keep asking you, what ball are you looking at? I watch what's called the future. And another thing, if a man had listened to you all this time, he would have thought that if the citizens of Serbia had not received over 50% of the votes in the elections, people would think there was no 10% in the SNS of Serbian citizens. Well, to let you know one more time, it's not like that, and what you're saying really doesn't agree with what's real. You have your perception, okay, your thing, but it's not reality.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11866	The right to replicate MP Gordana Comic, as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11867	Member of the Constitutional Court, that's what we're looking at, chosen. It really can, and it's good to talk about it, we can go after whatever you want institutions and organizations, public enterprises... (Blaža Knezevic, from the place: Dusan Petrovic threw 860 judges on the street, what are you talking about? The People's MP throws away, I hope the chairman... (Blaža Knezevic, from the scene: 860 judges were thrown into the street for your time, and it was the Supreme Judge. The MP continues to throw away, cannot endure the truth. I know it's hard to face reality and facts, it's pretty hard. It doesn't even have to be the chairman of this session to seduce the order, because I know when someone reacts like that by throwing and breaking the Rules of Procedure, that I told the truth here. Judge of the Constitutional Court, then public enterprises, then wherever you want, and that's what's called the reality of the bite. Any kind of denial that this reality exists will not bring good, whoever is in power and whoever is in opposition. The fact that we have people in front of us who we know in our local environments and who we know where they're employed, can't be erased by denying that reality. Why is that a common shame? Because part of it is a repeat of mistakes, and the other part is to prevent us from really coming to Serbia's development by dialogue, because party personnel will not lead to development. People's MPs are still getting it, and I'm happy about it. I'll always tell the truth here, and I understand how much the truth shakes you, because she's uncomfortable.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11868	You're bringing the end, Col. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11869	But, please, let's talk about facts, figures and the truth, not perceptions.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11870	Right on the line, People's Messenger Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11871	Thank you. Mrs. Mihajlovic, as Mrs. Komic said, a few days ago in the Serbian Parliament, the Constitutional Court chose a woman who was on the SNS parliamentary list on Vračar, as well as many others who are connected to the SNS. All of Serbia, Mrs. Mihajlovic, laughed last year at the vice president of your board in Kraljev, who at the press conference said she got a job in Elektro Kraljev, or I don't know what the company's name is for the distribution of electricity, when she said -- now you're going to ask me if I got a job through the party, yes, I got a job through the party. I was surprised that you didn't see it, since everyone saw it, and maybe it was at a time when you were a resolute minister. But they're not individual cases. I simply cannot believe that you are here to convince us that there is no job in Serbia today through membership in the Serbian Progressive Party, when all citizens of the Republic of Serbia know that it is not. What was done in 2012, was done and we paid the political price for it in the elections. Tell me, what are you doing in 2015 and 2016, and not what was someone else doing in 2012? And tell me what makes you think that only these people will not reach the position they will be in, only these professional managers, via the party, when everyone else in the previous two years has reached every position that they have run exclusively through the Serbian Progressive Party? It seemed to me for a moment that you asked me if I got the job of a MP in a contest or if I didn't know what you meant? I worked in the Vojvodina Assembly, not the government of Vojvodina, and the position where I was in the province government was appointed as a function, not a job, but a designated person, and the job I was in before the election as a MP, I applied for the competition.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11872	Thank you. Right on line, First People's MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11873	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and this will be brief, because there's still no need to be different. It's really interesting, I don't know what else to call it, this story we've heard now about candidates and elected judges of the Constitutional Court of Serbia. Really interesting, if for no other reason, then because, we talked about certain conditions for a man to become one. We also talked about concrete candidates, and we mentioned exactly who they are and what qualifications they are, the professional qualifications of these people. And our reminder to look at it a little bit, to read the one who didn't, in response we got either the pain or the repeated recitations that some of them served here, although there were some who were wise enough to pull out the hand so that they could stop, and there, when it came to them, look at the results and what kind of people they were talking about, that they were still retreating, realizing that they could only harm themselves in a political sense and act unseriously, if they continue to criticise people who were more than qualified for what they were proposed. It doesn't matter if someone is politically close to someone or not. Look at what the request requires, look at what the waist requires. And don't judge by anything else. Well, be someone brave to say they weren't good enough people. Once again, it is at least strange for us to hear comments on any party employment addressed to us, which we have just adopted measures prohibiting employment in the public sector. At least strange, by those who did not bring such measures, and we know how they treated both the state and their members. And when they say they paid for what they did, and what we remember well in 2012, they did. However, both 2014 and 2016 And they've been doing so well that they'll keep paying for it, no doubt at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11874	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? (No) On behalf of the 50th and the 50th Amendment, MP Gordana Komic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Parliamentarians Cedomir Jovanovic, Enis Imamovic, Natasa Micic, Zarko Korac, Nenad Milic and Bajro Gegic submitted together to the 50th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 50th amendment. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11875	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Minister, I have proposed by amendment that the JMBG or the homeowner of the apartment should not be taken into account by the warden. What about the building manager, the professional manager, the forced manager, whatever it is, what's my or your home number for? In an explanation, when you reject this amendment, you say – for easier communication and for easier building management. It won't be any easier if the warden has your home number, and he doesn't need it for anything. You could've prescribed that he's looking for a blood type. We propose an amendment to give the address of the population, if someone doesn't live here so you can contact him, phone number, e-mail address, not home number. Also, you're saying that this is consistent with a law dealing with protected data and that the trustee of personality data has given consent to this law. It just doesn't matter. That law doesn't deal with this. This is parent law and we here, this law prescribes what data is required for the record, and what data is not required for the record. I believe that the home number will be misused and that is precisely from these forced managers suspected of being all members of the SNS, because those who run local self-government are appointed to an SNS-led facility. Therefore, these parent numbers will be misused for making voter lists of parallels, for identifying safe votes, and for these managers to know who is in the voter's seat and that there could be a manipulation for the elections. That's the only reason why JMBG needs it. Otherwise, there's no reason for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11876	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11877	Just a sentence of comment on this last thing we heard, any terrible manipulations for the election. I think this is an excuse to give it to yourself in advance, why someone in that election will go as it goes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11878	The 50th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jasmina Karanac, Natasa Mihailović Vacic, Predrag Jelenkovic and Branimir Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Natasa Mihajlović Vacic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11879	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, the SDPS Parliamentary Group has tabled an amendment to Article 50. The law and that part that regulates the rights and obligations of the warden. We have suggested that these existing rights and obligations should be added to another new obligation, which is that the manager should make sure that special joint and independent parts of the building are used in accordance with his purpose. In the light of our amendment, we have also stated that it's actually a common phenomenon that in the buildings of the common room they use unintentional, for example. The dryers are used as warehouses for excess old things, which disturbs the owners of which the dryer is needed to dry the laundry because they have no terraces, for example. In addition, we have heard of examples that apartments are used as hostels without permission. In the reasons for which the amendment has been rejected, it is stated that the amendment is legally inaccurate. I would only like to appeal once again to find a way together to adopt this amendment anyway, because the essence and objective of the amendment is unequivocal and indisputable, so it would be good to find a way and remove that legal and technical inaccuracies if there is, although the amendment has been made in accordance with a unique methodology in the making of regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11880	Thank you. The word has a minister, Professor Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11881	What you're proposing wouldn't really be possible. This would mean that a professional manager can almost enter an apartment, or check whether the apartment is used for the purpose in which it is intended, whether there is a family, a physical person or something. That's really, at least the way we got the amendment. If you have any other suggestions and you want to explain it better, then let's hear it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11882	By amendment, MP Natasa Mihailovic Vacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11883	Thank you, Chairman. The amendment literally says this: "After point 5, point 5a is added. making sure that the specific common and independent parts of the building are used in accordance with their purpose. “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” So the word is here, the accent is in the common rooms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11884	Thank you. Members of the 50th Amendment were submitted to the same text by the MPs of Alexander Chabrai and the MPs of the DS Group together. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Chabrai.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11885	Thank you. Article 50 speaks of the rights and obligations of the administrator and I have submitted an amendment which deletes point 6 in which it says that the administrator establishes and maintains records of owners of special parts, owners of independent parts and persons who are joint and special parts issued for lease, i.e. on second basis, that a natural person, name, name, JMBG and for legal persons a business name, address, seats and home number. This position, i.e. paragraph 6, is in direct contrast to the Personal Data Protection Act, and thus directly violates the Constitution, because the Constitution in Article 42 says that protection of personal data is guaranteed and that the collection, holding, processing and use of personal data is governed by the Personal Data Protection Act. However much we discuss here what someone will do, and I agree, what someone will do to JMBG, we all know that it's controversial information, that not everyone should have it, that's why it's protected in this way, and that's why I don't want to go in right now, the controversy about who's going to take that number and what it's going to use it for, and so on. You're breaking the Constitution here again. So we can't manipulate such data unless it's directly in accordance with the law and the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11886	The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11887	Thank you. Because of this article, because of this point, we think that you're making one knot of law and that's why we suspect that when you say we're paranoid and we have conspiracy theories or I don't know what, here's why. Please, what kind of records about the owners of the apartments and tenants that manager keeps? What does that record say about what kind of data he collects? What does he want with the unique number of citizens whether they're tenants or tenants? What's he doing with that record? Who's he forwarding it to? What data does this record contain? Does that mean, that here, let's say, that owner of the apartment, if he didn't report to him the tenant and he didn't give him the contract and he didn't inform him about it, and he suspected that he had a tenant, whether he'd write down how many times this guy's been in, I don't know, with this man, five times a week, a woman who sleeps there three nights a week, maybe she lives there. I mean, are you aware of what they're writing at this point and are you aware that the building managers will be potential managers, professional building managers because of this point, because of the obligation to keep some record of the tenants and tenants, will be forced to stalk the tenants, follow who comes to their apartment, how many times a week they sleep in the apartment, who they hang out with, what they do, all of which still have a unique home number of citizens and apartments and potential tenants if that suspect has tenants, and didn't report to him according to the obligations he had in the previous members. That's why we think it's knotlaw. That's why we think building managers will be stalking tenants, professional managers, even better, who we're confident will be from your party...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11888	You're bringing the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11889	... Because they have an obligation to keep a record of the tenants, which we are convinced is not in conformity.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11890	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11891	Somehow, you again, as you seem to be and again projecting what it will look like. There are certain procedures when the law is proposed by the government at all. There is a procedure of public debate, therefore, the first working group, which consists not only of members of the ministry, but also of people from various universities, the civil sector, etc., so the law is being prepared, so it goes to public debates, so after public debates and many comments that are received in public debates, which are very good and high-quality, puts it within the law, so we need to come to a session of the government. To come to a government meeting at all, the law must be given the opinion of many ministries. In this case, due to the importance of the law, this law has received the opinion of the 27 most important institutions in this country. So, they probably don't know anything about you and you, probably, and the Commissioner has no idea, because what you're saying now, so this law, the draft of this law, is also accepted by the Commissioner. This selectivity is amazing in your thinking. When something doesn't suit you, in which case use the Trustee. When something suits you to discuss, it doesn't matter anymore. Somehow we still have to respect what's called procedure, the law, which, I repeat, there's no ball, there's nothing, it's all clearly written. A professional manager or manager should know who lives in an apartment like all of us as tenants should know who the neighbors are just for one thing, because of the management, therefore, because these people are in the congregation and for the maintenance of the building. You can play any movies you want, I'm talking one more time, we're back in the law frameworks. The law is very clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-20-0.u11892	We'd end this with today's debate. We'll continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 85 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the e-system's parliamentary units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 86 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that he has been prevented from attending the session of MP Milisav Petronijevic. We continue the search in detail on the 16th item of the agenda – Proposal for a law on housing and building maintenance. National MP Sonja Pavlovic submitted to the 50th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is by the MP Sonja Pavlovic. Here you go.
