ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5141	Thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Article 171(1) – Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia, by reason of the National Assembly, shall be submitted by the Government within the prescribed time limit. That deadline shall be laid down by the Budgetary System Act in Article 31(1) point (16) as 1 November. Today is November 2nd, the National Assembly has not yet reached the Budget Law. I ask the chairman to write an urgent memo to the Government, remind them of their obligation if they have forgotten and to insist that the law be found in the National Assembly as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5142	Thank you. You've mixed up some respected MPs, you should refer to this session, to something directly done by the president or the chairman, not... (Branka Stamenkovic, from the post: A direct injury was done at midnight when it expired on November 1st. You've mixed everything up, I'm sorry. You'll have to do it again... (Branka Stamenkovic, from the post: No, you do not know the Rules of Procedure of the Chairman. Study the Rules of Procedure. It's time to rebuild the material, a long time ago... To exclude you, it's rude what you do. I want for your own good to prevent you from sending such a picture to the public, about yourself and about your political group. I have to take two minutes away from your total time, because you're abusing the Rules of Procedure. You know very well what it says in the Rules of Procedure and that it must refer to this session, to this item of the agenda, and that I have committed some kind of violation directly at this session. So two minutes less than total time because you abuse the Rules of Procedure. The word has Minister Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5143	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, before you the proposal for a decision to adopt an annual plan for the use of Serbia's Army and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2016, which was built by the Ministry of Defence in collaboration with the Ministry of Interior and the proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2016. The Ministry of Defence planned to continue its engagement in seven UN-Kong peacekeeping operations in 2016, Liberia, Côte d'Ivoire, Cyprus, Lebanon, the Middle East, as well as in the Central African Republic and four multinational EU operations – Somalia, the Central African Republic and Mali. In addition to the number of multinational operations, the proposal for an annual plan for the use of the Serbian Army or other defence forces in the 2016 multinational operations of the Serbian Army contains seven UN peacekeeping operations in which the Serbian Army has so far not participated, in the Western Sahara, the Republic of Mali, Jamu and Kashmir, South Sudan and the Middle East, as well as in two multinational EU operations - in the Central African Republic and the Mediterranean. The introduction of these seven UN peacekeeping operations into the proposal for an annual plan for the use of Serbia's Army and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2016 creates a condition for meeting the obligations of the Republic of Serbia stemming from the concluded Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the UN on the contribution to the UN's stand-by arrangement system, concluded in November 2011, establishing the resources of the Serbian Army, the Sanitary Team, military observers and staff officers, which the Government of Serbia has made available to the UN in the event of an emergency field engagement. In addition to the UN-listed peacekeeping operations, the proposal for an annual plan for the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2016 includes two EU crisis management operations in which the Serbian Army has not participated in the Central African Republic and the Mediterranean so far. The EU mission to the Central African Republic established in June of this year, replacing a military advisory operation in the country. I am taking this opportunity to inform you that on 16 July 2016, the mandate of the EU military advisory operation in the Central African Republic was completed and that the four-member Serbian military team successfully completed its engagement in those operations. The Serbian Army's Sanitary Team will be sent to the new EU mission in the Central African Republic after the National Assembly's decision has been adopted. The second new EU mission was contained in the proposal for an annual plan to use the Army and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2016 and EU Mediterranean operations, launched with the aim of easing the consequences and resolving the migration crisis in Europe, given that Serbia is in one of the main routes of large waves of migrants deciding in that operation, we will continue to act as a responsible member of the International Community and to monitor current developments in the wider region and plans of the International Community in order to address the migration crisis in Europe. In line with 20 UN multinational operations in 2016, up to 700 members of Serbia's Army were scheduled to be engaged in 340 positions. The paper in the proposal for an annual plan for the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2016 represents the readiness of the defence ministry and the Serbian Army to engage their members in humanitarian character operations in case of need. An engagement in a concrete mission would depend on calls from an international organisation of a regional initiative whose Republic of Serbia is a member or state that has hit a natural disaster technically technologically or otherwise, but also available resources from the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army. The funds for the financing of humanitarian operations would be provided by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in addition to the possibilities and regulations in the budgetary system. The floods that struck Serbia in May 2014, but the wider Western Balkans region left the terrible consequences that in the future, if they happen again, can be significantly reduced by the speedier engagement of adequate forces on the ground. The main reason why humanitarian operations are found for the first time in this plan is the intention to ensure that the People's Assembly's consent, if required by the situation, can be sent to humanitarian surgery for just a few hours after receiving the calls. The proposal for an annual plan for the use of Serbia's military and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2016 did not plan to significantly increase Serbia's military engagement outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia, but rather retain the level of engagement achieved, which was conditioned by available funding. The necessary funding for the implementation of the annual plan for the use of the military and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2016 amounts to one billion 672 million 750 thousand dinars. The amount indicated for the need for participation of members of the defence ministry and the Serbian Army requires a billion 553 million 65,000 dinars. The defence ministry has provided a billion 92 million 749 thousand dinars, and a difference of 460 million 316 thousand dinars will be provided by the UN to pay the defence ministry for participation in multinational operations in 2016. The legal, i.e. constitutional basis for the adoption of the annual plan is contained in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Law on the National Assembly and the Law on the application of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia, which is prescribed that the National Assembly adopts general acts under the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia, or the decision, as well as to consider the terms and conditions of the annual plan for the implementation of planned multinational operations in the current year. In addition to the constitutional basis for a decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2016, I point to the provision of Article 140. The Constitution, which found that the Serbian Army could be used outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia, or Article 8. The law on the use of Serbia's military and other defence forces in multinational operations outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia, which is prescribed that the National Assembly decide on the participation of joint forces of members of the Serbian Army in these operations. The involvement of members of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations is an important element of our country's foreign policy. By participating in multinational operations, the Republic of Serbia shows that an active factor in preserving international peace and security confirms its own reputation and strengthens confidence in Serbia's military in the international environment. The Republic of Serbia, through its participation in multinational operations, strengthens its own defence capacities and national security, and contributes to the convergence of the Republic of Serbia with EU membership in the framework of a common security and defence policy. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I propose that the National Assembly decide on the adoption of an annual plan for the use of the military and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2016 and a decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5144	I thank the minister. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. We move on to authorised representatives. The first is Nenad Milic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5145	Madam President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr Minister, I think today we are talking about a very important topic that goes beyond the frameworks of the Ministry of Defence, that this is a very important political issue. Participation in building and preserving peace in the region and the world is the second of the three missions of the Serbian Army defined by the Defence Strategy, so we are talking about one of the very important activities of the Serbian Army. Unfortunately, Serbia has no foreign policy strategy, which of course is not the fault of the Ministry of Defence, there are no clear political goals that would define participation in multinational operations, but as it is technical matters, I will still read what I have prepared to be precise in this speech. In principle, the LDP supports the participation of members of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia. As pointed out in Chapter 5 of the Decision adopting the annual plan for the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2016, members of the Serbian Army with participation in multinational operations are able to verify the attainment of the level of development and functional capabilities in real conditions. They are thus familiar with standard, operational day-to-day procedures and operational use of forces in the international environment. The state hereby confirms the interest and intention to contribute specifically to global and European regional security and respect for international peace and rights. The participation of Serbian military members in UN and EU multinational operations is an important element of the foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia which contributes to Serbia's being treated as an equal partner in relations with EU and UN members. For the LDP, it is of particular importance that the engagement of members of the military and other defence forces in multinational EU patronage operations under the common security and defence policy integrates Serbia into an important area of EU activity and at the same time strengthens its security capacities on the road to EU membership. Also, the LDP believes it is good that members of the Serbian Army participate in a large number of military exercises of bilateral and multinational type, which also help to check in the performance of operational capacities, as well as to learn about international circumstances and facts. On the other hand, the LDP stresses concern about Serbia's attempt to strike a balance between the number of exercises it maintains with Russia on the one hand compared to all other partners and requires members of the armed forces to know and use two non-inert operating standards. Does the Serbian Army have the resources for such a thing and how justified it is to spend on these resources? This issue would be meaningful and much less complex geopolitical circumstances. With the EU's stance on Russian engagement in Ukraine for which it imposed sanctions, the issue of political implications for Serbia's European integration is being raised, the current trend in strengthening military security co-operation with Russia, which was mutually demonstrated during the recent visit by Russian Security Council Secretary Nikola Petrusev. In doing so, the LDP sees as a very good decision by the Serbian government to join the global coalition to fight the Islamic state led by the United States a few years ago. We hope that Serbia will not withdraw from that mission when NATO is directly involved in it by sending its avax planes. Also, the LDP thinks that there is obviously more and more situations that need to be re-examined about Serbia's unsettled policy of military neutrality. We will also support all future measures of the Serbian government and new legislative proposals such as those concerning better norms for strengthening and using civilian capacities in the Ministry of Defence, and in particular the adoption of the foreign policy strategy of Serbia, as I have already stated, without it, it is increasingly difficult to plan for the participation of our forces in multinational operations in the longer term. In this context, we consider it an important intention made two years ago when the government agreed with NATO an individual and action plan to strengthen the country's regulatory and operational capacity of the National Security Council's Government Office and the protection of classified information. This office is in charge of safeguarding and acting under the protocols Serbia signed with the EU, which is a prerequisite for the participation of our forces in the EU missions. We hope that the plans will finally begin to be realized, however, the question is why it has not already begun. Also, we think the government should appoint the Director of the Office as soon as possible. It is not a good message for partners to be led by such important institutions for almost a year and a half of a day by an expert and acting as V.D. By the way, this office is also responsible for the implementation of the protocol on the protection and exchange of classified information that Serbia has signed with both Russia and NATO. The Liberal Democratic Party will also advocate in the future that Serbia is monitoring developments with EU co-operation with NATO and that it, in line with its foreign policy and security policy, is harmonising with these trends. We think this is a good time to remind the public of Serbia that all the missions mentioned are being implemented according to NATO standards, and that there are agreements between NATO and the EU, known as "Berlin" and "Berlin Plus", that the EU can use NATO resources to realise missions in which NATO does not directly participate. Such an option was used in the realisation of the mission in Macedonia and it still benefits and is even more active in carrying out missions in Bish. The European Union has recently adopted a new global Security Strategy. It cites, among other things – the European Union will deepen its partnership with NATO through co-ordinated development of defence capabilities, parallel synchronised exercises and mutual strengthening actions to strengthen our partners' capacities, combating hybrid and cyber threats and strengthen maritime security. The Liberal Democratic Party recalls that among the key points concluded at a recent NATO summit in Warsaw and that NATO is raising its relationship with the EU to the next level. The joint declaration identified key areas of enlargement of EU-NATO co-operation including the fight against hybrid and cyber threats by supporting our partners in strengthening defence capacity and strengthening defence security. NATO's extended co-operation with the EU in the Mediterranean Sea has been announced, where the exchange of information and co-ordination of forces can help NATO and the EU be more effective in responding to illegal migration, terrorism and other challenges. Allies in Warsaw basically agreed on NATO's possible role in the Central Mediterranean through the implementation and support of the EU in Operation "Sofia". A recent meeting of NATO defence ministers attended by Federica Mogerini, the EU's top representative, began the operation and implementation of these plans. Otherwise, the "Sofia" operation is one of the multinational operations, a military in which Serbia plans to send members for the first time, if it invites them, of course, which is voted on in this package of proposals. The Liberal Democratic Party believes that participation of members of the Serbian Army in this operation would be extremely useful for the continuation of the process of European integration, but also beyond, as a confirmation that Serbia is a reliable partner who fulfils its obligations in internationally agreed plans. The same EU and NATO documents also use harsh rhetoric towards the current Kremlin administration. We think that the public of Serbia should be familiar with this tone and the reasons that led to it, and above all, about the illegal Russian aggression of Crimea, and I will remind you, and Serbia recognises Ukraine's territorial integrity, which would probably mean that it does not recognise the annexion of Crimea and Russia's participation in the conflicts in eastern Ukraine, and now clearly problematic military engagement in Syria. That is why, although we support in principle multinational operations, we think that in this proposed package we need to have a clearer and more concrete explanation of what is considered under humanitarian missions that are mentioned at the end of the list of these multinational operations, which we need to participate in for the first time. I quote the text of the arguments that we have received – engagement, more specifically, in the humanitarian mission, it is thought of them, depending on the call of the international organisation of a regional initiative whose Republic of Serbia is a member or state affected by a natural disaster, technical and technological and other disasters, as well as the available resources of the Ministry of Defence. I remind you that Russia is also an international legal basis for its military engagement in Syria only draws out of calls from the Assad regime. Here, I will quote from today's newspapers the article of our fellow MP who is visiting Assad – Syria, and President Assad. "We have arrived at the Presidential Palace. From the entrance to the complex of gardens, parks, palm trees, flowers, senoritas, nursed meadows and trails filled with ornaments to the building where the president leads the boulevard with four strips." This is how our colleague describes Asada and the current situation in Syria. I'll remind you, it's a land where hundreds of people die, millions of refugees flee from it, and we send humanitarian aid to this man. It is not about any underpants, as the foreign minister said, nor about flour, but about the political classification of Serbia, which we consider to be wrong, in a conflict where Russia and Assad are on one side, and on the other, the West. I think that, not that it's not the neutrality we've declared, but in Serbia's foreign policy, at the very least, an unwarranted procedure that can lead to the deterioration of our international position, so the question is whether or not we'll go through some of the following, so on. humanitarian operations have these political problems and settle on one side, if for example Assad invites us to help him fight the rest of the world. Unfortunately, these are the topics. They're not humanitarian aid topics, and of course the people need help, no one has anything against it, but the political message that we're sending in this way is, in my deep conviction, very wrong, and we see that Asada, it doesn't seem to me like the president of a country that's in trouble and in war, but, at least to me, a dictator, but good. I will move on to the following, in the light of these decisions, the legislator speaks exclusively of multinational operations relating to the preservation of peace and security, so I quote: "The Republic of Serbia is clearly shown by the engagement of the capacity of the Serbian Army and other forces, by defence and multinational EU operations that it is an active factor in the preservation of international peace and security in the world. Also, participation in those activities will provide clear and firm proof of the consistency of Serbia's foreign policy, which advocates resolving all disputes peacefully, respecting international law and other generally accepted standards in international relations, as well as strengthening the role and capacity of international community institutions. “ What I would like to hear from the representatives of the proposings of these provisions is that some of those missions, in which Serbia already has representatives, such as Operation Atalanta in Somalia, are missions to establish peace. Participants in these missions have police and military powers to use force. I quote, for the decision on "Atalanta": "The mandate of the mission - the prevention of piracy, the protection of ships that sail". The prevention and protection means the use of force, so this, as well as some other missions we are discussing today, cannot be considered peace missions, narrowly speaking. The term mentioned in the decisions we are discussing today – the establishment of peace, establishment and preservation of peace is the only, in our opinion, correct. Once again, the LDP will support, I hope we will get answers to these few concerns that I have raised, but in any case we will support multinational operations and encourage this through the Ministry, but also other ministries, particularly civil, to increase Serbia's capacity and strength in multinational operations, because it is of primary interest to the European but also the world position of Serbia and for the clearly defined foreign policy of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5146	Thank you. The word has Minister Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5147	I didn't recognize the issue of this subject, except for this in the end for humanitarian aid, but I'm going to have to answer you. Serbia is war neutral. Serbia's strategic definition is EU accession. We want what's best for Serbia and, in that sense, we want military exercises with everyone, we can and we think that's our advantage over others, because others can't everybody with everyone. We can strengthen our operational capacity with each and every one of us, thus strengthening our interoperability, and thus strengthening our ties with all these countries. Secondly, when you asked for humanitarian aid and humanitarian operations, I read what they mean, I will read to you one more time – humanitarian actions mean the engagement of members of the Serbian Army to eliminate and mitigate the consequences of natural disasters, technical and technological disasters and other disasters, which, by volume and intensity, endanger people's health and lives, material goods and the environment. The involvement in humanitarian operations will depend on calls from international organisations, regional initiatives of which the Republic of Serbia is a member or state hit by natural disasters, technical and technological or other disasters, as well as available resources from the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army. When it comes to our involvement in Syria, we are not sending help to this man, as you said, but we are sending help to the people in Syria. Secondly, the political message of all this is that Serbia and the Serbian people are human people and that we know very well what a humanitarian crisis is, because unfortunately we have experienced it ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5148	Thank you. The word is Nenad Milic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5149	Unfortunately, you have repeated what the officials of the Republic of Serbia have been repeating since we sent this humanitarian aid, so to be honest, I'm not sure if it's just an excuse for something or if we really believe that the whole world is so naive. It is not, of course, anyone's intention to challenge the sending of humanitarian aid to endangered people. It's illusory to talk about. It's a political message we're sending. It is that we have sent this humanitarian aid through Russia, which supports Asada, which is not supported by the rest of the world, Europe and everything you have said yourself, that we are seeking, which is also some goal of Serbia. Therefore, it is a matter of political classification. Why did we not use EU civilian missions, or what they are already called, and send humanitarian aid through the EU? It is, in our opinion, a political, not that someone is contesting the humanitarian mission, but rather a political message that is, in our opinion, deeply wrong, which was sent to Asada through Russia, which supports Assad, that we are then practically supporting Asad, who is growing flowers, so we could then send Assad to Asad, to import tulips from the Netherlands and send it to him. He obviously needs it more. He obviously doesn't care much about the people. Therefore, once again, the political message is wrong, according to our deep conviction. That's why I've been talking about humanitarian operations, that it shouldn't be in this plan, but that there must be clear frameworks that they leave space so broadly for, not to say abuses, but to send the wrong political messages, unless it's thought through before it's done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5150	Thank you. Minister, will you excuse me for a moment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5151	Civilian missions in Syria don't exist to send through. The only ones who turned around were them and we were sending flour, sugar and oil. This is not a political message, except that the Syrian people should consume sugar, flour and oil. If that's any problem with you, then that's what you have to say. Is it problematic to send people who lack basic food? Is there something wrong with that?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5152	The word is Goran Bogdanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5153	Thank you, Madam President. Dear People's MPs, respected ministers and associates, today we are discussing two very important decisions. This is primarily a proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2016 and a proposal for a decision to adopt an annual plan for the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2016. It is good that such a discussion of these two decisions began and it is good that there has been a continuation of the process of participation in peace humanitarian missions, important for both the military and the state, in line with the challenges facing today's modern world. It's a good thing the Serbian Army is involved in these operations. We as the Social Democratic Party and the People's Movement of Serbia will support this draft decision. I repeat, it is good that there has been a continuation of these peace operations, for a simple reason, if we just go back a few years where here in this National Assembly, when these decisions were made, a good part of today's government, and then the opposition, was just against this kind of operation. It's a good thing there's been a change in thinking on that side. The participation of our soldiers in these operations contributes to strengthening our security, and special importance through this type of participation in the peace processes contributes to world security. Using Serbia's military in multinational operations, the Republic of Serbia ranks in the ranks of countries actively involved in establishing and preserving peace and stability in the world. This contributes to building an equal partnership with the UN member states and, of course, to the EU. Participation in peace operations has special significance, taking into account the growing number of crisis hotspots and armed conflicts in the world. This type of participation contributes not only to maintaining peace and security, but also to respecting the rule of law, which is, unfortunately, in those countries where conflicts exist and where wars are very, very threatened. Dear People's MPs, it is important that this decision creates an opportunity for the Serbian Army to participate in accordance with available resources and, if necessary, be engaged in humanitarian operations, such as natural disasters, technological and other disasters. Considering that we ourselves, unfortunately, were not to say participants, but were struck by natural disasters and where our army is and where other countries in the environment helped us in this entire humanitarian action. Also, I think it's very important to choose soldiers who are sent to these missions to choose first and foremost high-quality members of the armed forces, and not according to the protection principle. I'm going to ask you, Mr. Minister, one question, you're going to tell me if it's true, so the way professional soldiers are chosen for missions -- are those who are not chosen very quickly leaving the Army of Serbia? Because I've had a chance to talk to some professional soldiers who, unfortunately, have been looking for a connection to go on certain missions and we all know that it's relatively well paid, unfortunately, that kind of job and that a good part of those professional soldiers are engaged not to say the most part about it. It is also important to take professional these soldiers on missions to transfer knowledge and experience to other members of the army after missions have been carried out. It's something that might mean the most because I believe that the soldiers who have returned and the experiences they have gained in these missions are well passed on to their colleagues. Mr. Minister, there is also a need to keep in mind the adequate equipment of soldiers who are headed for peacekeeping missions. This report here annually shows that a lot of money is given for that purpose, but I think it needs to be improved, not only materially but also on the side of the training. However, quality conditions and dedicated training for such missions are necessary to ensure that members of the armed forces are better prepared and that risks are minimised, especially given how our countries do so in the environment. Also, here I must say that very little public in Serbia is familiar with the details of our mission during the mission itself. I think if the public and more in the media were to be represented what our soldiers were doing on these missions, how they were sent, etc. I think it would in some way improve the image of the Serbian Army itself and thus stimulate greater competition and the departure of our soldiers. And I'm also going to say in the end that I'm taking part through world peace missions, as a country, we show our, above all, commitment to peace and respect for the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5154	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5155	Here's the answer to the question. All those who need to leave and run, pass the preparations at the Peace Operations Centre. I didn't understand the question of whether they needed a relationship to leave. If they're looking that way, I think they're doing something outside the law, and then they should leave if they're looking for a connection to go. Our choice is very characteristic and characterized by the systematicity, clear criteria, dedicated training, the best to go after that training and they have the right and the ability to leave even multiple times and run for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5156	Thank you. Let George Komlenski prepare after this comment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5157	I just can't believe you didn't understand the question, I'm telling you -- just whether it's true that professional soldiers looking for these missions are going, looking for a connection to go in some way. I'm just asking for confirmation or a denial of such information. I had a chance to talk to some professional soldiers, where they actually showed that fear and even there is a tendency for people who don't go on these missions to leave the Army of Serbia later. That was the question. Is that true or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5158	The word has Minister Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5159	The decision to leave the Department of Defense is their personal decision, and if they're looking for a connection, I don't know, behind whether it's happening anywhere. It may be happening, but if they're asking for something to be done by law. So, if that's why they're looking for a connection and they don't leave and then they leave the army, then I think it's their good decision, because they're doing something outside the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5160	The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5161	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, distinguished ministers with associates, respected officers, the movement of Socialists The People's Peasant Party, the United Peasant Party, in the day of voting will support a decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2016 and a decision to adopt an annual plan for the use of Serbia's Army and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2016 as proposed. The importance of these decisions should not be particularly discussed, as the army has always been a special and very important institution in Serbia, which has always been in the pride and pride of this people and had its special meaning in Serbian mentality. Your participation in many operations just confirms that the Serbian Army is slowly restoring its value and restoring certain standards, criteria and gaining respect for all those with whom it co-operates in these military operations and which created the possibility of the Serbian Army being engaged there. I would not say how immeasurable it is in the return sense of gaining experience in these international operations, precisely because experience is gained which is important in relations with all the partners that are there, according to the standards of different, which apply in these military operations. I think it is absolutely in line with the government policy of the Republic of Serbia, which is a question clearly defined by Serbia's military neutrality and neutrality in all this. It is my great pleasure that you have put all possible capacities that the military has in place, both with the Russian Federation and with China and with the United States, with countries from the region, Southeast Europe and all other friendly countries and all those countries that need assistance from the Republic of Serbia's military. The importance of the army is not to be discussed specifically. What I have as a question for you ministers here, as well as a proposal, perhaps to think about, more as to whether or not this is being considered and in what plan – is the Serbian Army planning to introduce compulsory military service and I need to state my personal position and position of the Socialist Movement, that this is something that I think should be done in the future, as soon as conditions are created for this? Mostly for the reason the Army was and the other kind of school of life. Something that had its own educational role when it comes to young generations, but also someone who, by his very existence, has served with his own power to confirm stability in the country of Serbia, now that we see how unstable the area is in our environment, I think the need for such a very serious and fundamental thinking is being indicated. The internal needs for such greater engagement and the existence of more troops from the civil sector, as I call it, are also shown in 2014. Indeed, we from Obrenovac can bear witness to how immeasurable the contribution of the Republic of Serbia's Army was to establish order as soon as possible, to evacuate in an organized, fast and synchronised way, and then to bring about the recovery of everything that has happened to Obrenovac. It is sad that the military's strength is spoken of by those who tried to bring down the military to a minimum in the country of Serbia, those who tried harder to put out barracks, to destroy the engineering units that Serbia's economy and all the local self-governments meant a great deal. I think that's the direction in which to think in the future, but not in the far future, but in the shortest possible time we can go towards that story. We absolutely support co-operation with everyone, as long as she's focused on neutrality. We see nothing wrong with how humanitarian aid has been supplied to anyone, on the contrary, we are even satisfied with the way and methodology of how it was done when it comes to Syria, because this only shows that the Serbian Army and the Government of the Republic of Serbia stand firmly at the point of view that Serbia is an independent and neutral country and must preserve it in some perspective. The Partnership for Peace is something for us that is the greatest acceptability and closeness of co-operation with the NATO Pact, and we hope that it will not move because we cannot support entering the NATO Pact. We believe that this can never be an act of civilization and an act that is good and desirable for the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5162	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5163	I would only add to what you said, co-operation with everyone while it is the interest of Serbia. And as for the military deadline, whether or not we should, we can discuss it. What you know, and perhaps you ignored the fact, the Assembly should make a decision on whether to return or not to the military term. It is frozen itself, but what you need to know is that our analysis of the return of the first year's military deadline requires an additional 70 billion dinars in the Republic of Serbia's budget. That's precisely why you said we didn't have the capacity for accommodation, for clothing, for equipment and for everything else that should be the first year. To be honest, it would take less and less every year next year, but I think this 70 billion is a big enough number to think about whether we can do it right now or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5164	Thank you. George Kosanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5165	Thank you. Dear Ministers, respected officers of the Serbian Army, respected chairman, Mrs Gojkovic, ladies and gentlemen, today we have two very important decisions -- the first on the participation of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2016 and the second on the adoption of an annual plan for the use of the Serbian Army and other defence sides in multinational operations. Let me say at the very beginning that JS in voting day will support the aforementioned decisions. Why? Because making these decisions allows our blue helmets to participate first in peace operations, and on the other hand, the Republic of Serbia shows interest and desire to contribute to the concrete preservation of world, European, ultimately and regional security, respect for international law and, of course, the preservation of world peace. Ministers, given that today in the world there are a large number of crisis hotspots, armed conflicts, that practically wars have changed their purpose, sometimes they last up to four years, today they last 12, 13, and even more years, after all, they don't even know when they're going to end up, like in Syria, so peace operations are getting more and more important and to say, meaning because of the preservation of peace and security in the world. Starting practically since 1948, when the first mission to the Middle East was set up, under UN auspices, a large number of missions have been active in the world today. On four continents, you didn't say that, but I'll say, practically 130,000 soldiers, cops and civilians from practically 120 countries. When I talk about the Serbian Army, practically by hiring the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations, the Republic of Serbia shows that it is an active factor in preserving peace and security in the world. Also, by participating in these multinational operations, we show that the confirmation of continuity in foreign policy, again I say, for the preservation of peace and security in the world, and on the other hand, the confirmation of foreign policy, because by participating in such peace operations, the Republic of Serbia shows that it is an equal partner with EU and UN members. Now, the annual plan of using Serbia's military and other defence forces provides for up to 700 members of the military and 18 members of the MUP to participate in multinational operations, again I say in multinational operations under the auspices of the UN and the EU. Serbia's "blue helmets" will keep peace in 21 peace operations, mahogany in Africa, Asia and the Mediterranean, and will be made by military observers, then staff officers, medics, water units and troops and ship protection teams. Once again, 21 missions, 14 destinations with different tasks and goals. Where will this keep our “blue helmets, ” to say, peace in which all countries? Here, I will read: in Liberia, the Ivory Coast, the Congo, Mali, Sudan, Somalia, the Western Sahara, Jam, Kashmir, there are still operations in the Middle East, the Mediterranean, as well as in Cyprus and Lebanon. I mention some, we have the most people in Lebanon, we've been present for a few years, if I'm not mistaken, there are 177 officers and soldiers present, then, in the Centro African Republic, a military hospital, I think there will be 72 of our members of the "blue helmets". It's a very important mission in Atalanta, 16 members of our peacekeeping forces, with the aim of protecting the vessel from data. So far, we have not participated in missions in Mali, Jama, Kashmir, Western Sahara, South Sudan and Sudan. In these countries, you mentioned it, we will be invited or we will take part in these missions for a concrete call from the UN by so-called. Stand-by arrangement. What does that practically represent? Our peacemakers or members of Serbia's "blue helmets", will be fully prepared to participate in one of these peacekeeping missions, together with equipment, at the invitation specifically to the UN. Of course, what I'm saying is that the paper also makes it possible to participate in European operations in the Mediterranean. The aim of our "blue helmets" will be to monitor the situation in North Africa, so the movement of migrants and the prevention of large numbers of migrants and human trafficking. Now, Minister, I'd like to say or, I'd better say, commend one thing in favor. I have also listened to your statements several times, that the Serbian Army pays great attention to women's participation in Serbian "blue helmets". If I'm not mistaken, right now 11% of women are present in ours, somewhere about 38 exactly, I would say, and I think, Minister, that this important thing needs in the coming period, the participation of women in our "blue helmets" to improve, increase and in the coming years, that this number of women is greatly increasing in the "blue helmets" of the Republic of Serbia. We just heard something about it, and I have to say that our "blue helmets" in peace operations are practically in all the countries where they were trained, recognized as exceptional soldiers and professionals in their work, and in addition, the fact that our "blue helmets" in many missions are decorated not only in one, but in many missions. I'm sure the ministers will agree with me that the Serb soldier was eventually respected, respected, even by his opponents. And the overall military strategy of Serbia as a military country has always been based on self-defense. At the very end, I will say Serbia as a country leading a policy of military neutrality, co-operation with the East and the West, Serbia is a country that develops its military potential and its military industry. I just want to point out to you that the former Yugoslavia, at the height of its power, has been exporting at an annual level weapons and military equipment worth as much as $4.5 billion. Finally, I would like to say once again that the JS parliamentary group in the voting day will support the two very important decisions on the participation of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5166	Thank you. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5167	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the Department of Defense, today's topic, or today's peacekeeping mission, can be divided into two groups. One group consists of those peace operations where we participate under the auspices of the UN, and the other is a group of peace operations organised by the EU. Peace missions in the EU organisation are absolutely unacceptable from the point of view of our parliamentary group and we believe that Serbia has no interest in participating in such peace operations. I don't even agree with my first colleague who spoke. I think he was saying everything completely wrong from what should be the interest of Serbia and the interest of our country. The minister said we would respond by participating in peacekeeping missions at the invitation of those organisations whose member we are. We are not an EU member. Whether we will become an EU member, it is something that needs to happen in the future or not in the future. I honestly think that we will not become an EU member and I sincerely hope that the EU will fall apart as soon as possible. Remember that Bregzit has shown this, but the situation, for example, in France and other countries like Austria, that the peoples of Europe are rebelling against the oppression they experience from Brussels and the EU. And it doesn't take so much to rush into that EU. Don't be the last Europhiles in Europe and don't be those who don't understand, as some people often like to say here that Serbia didn't understand that Warsaw Wall or Warsaw Block, that the Berlin Wall and Warsaw Block had fallen, that we didn't understand the geopolitical changes in the world that are happening. Peace missions organised under the auspices of the EU are primarily a front for NATO. The leading EU countries and the leading countries commanding these peacekeeping missions are NATO members. We know exactly what NATO's peace operation looks like. Don't forget that less than two decades ago we were exposed to such one of their aggressions. So, in the aggression of the NATO Pact on Serbia, that is, the SRJ at the time, we suffered terribly, but this aggression continues. The European Union is an active participant in the occupation of the work of our territory. The policy of Serbian integration in the EU is taking place from 2000 to today, and for this period of 16 years, Serbia has suffered very badly. We must have lost a million jobs. We've completely destroyed the industry. In Belgrade alone, 180,000 people in the industry used to work, here are five to ten thousand today. Our standard has dropped drastically, and billions and billions and billions a year, the same EU companies rob and export to the west. What more can Serbs hold in their own state? They took all our banks, they took our entire trade, they take all our strategic resources. Now, that's our policy of travel to the EU. This policy is far worse than any sanctions and all the bombings the same EU has done in the 1990s. That is why I hope that Serbia will never join the EU and I hope that the EU will disappear from the political map. It is not the same as Europe and the EU. It needs to be underlined and repeated. That is why I really don't see that Serbia in Somalia and Mali's peace missions, organised by the EU, would contribute to the preservation of peace and security in the world. As for our co-operation and sending help to Syria, I would like to commend both the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Serbia for sending humanitarian aid to Syria. First, both Serbia and world peace and security are defended in Syria. Syria is one example and an indication that the US and NATO pacts can no longer behave as they have acted for the past two, three decades, cannot bomb whichever country they want, can't bring down who wants the legitimately elected regime. You see how bad those résumés were, what brought Arab spring. Egypt, fortunately, has saved itself. Look at Libya. And Russia saved Syria. Someone here mentioned a struggle against the Islamic state, so the Islamic State created a U.S. administration. And we, aiding the Bashara el Assad regime, would call on us to actively engage, as much as possible, in support of Syria and this fellow MP, I really don't know who he is, I'll look at politics, and it's a great honor for him to go to Damascus. So that's stopping the Islamic state. Speaking of the Islamic State, let's look generally at overall participation in peacekeeping operations, including those under the auspices of the UN. You know well that Serbia is exposed to a major migrant crisis, that a good part of this migrant crisis is caused by the event in Syria. Although the present migrants, mostly located in our territory, have emerged from some previous peacekeeping operations, under the allegations of these same forces as we mention in Afghanistan and some other states. Does Serbia have the capacity to participate in peacekeeping missions, given the numerous conditions of our military and the material equipment of our army, when we are exposed to such a great challenge as the migrant crisis? Are we able to protect the state border, not from the aggression on the outside, but from the passing of migrants who come into our country illegally, and we see that the EU is building walls against these migrants, so the plan seems to be that a large number of them remain in our country? I would also ask the Minister of Defence about the situation – what about when members of peacekeeping missions return to the country? What are the number of officers, under contracted soldiers who participated in peacekeeping missions, and after returning from peacekeeping missions, were leaving the Army of Serbia? The reason for leaving – the poor material position and the poor material status of the people in the army, or the employees of the army who when they go on peacekeeping missions, we just realized, earning a drastically higher amount of money, and therefore want to leave, and then when they return, because of the bad material opportunities, they have no motivation to remain in the army, but that money they have earned to start another job. Do we need to invest and seriously invest? Investment in one officer is certainly both a serious matter and a significant matter for the state and a significant cost for the state. So, we invest in officers, invest in military, invest in officers and soldiers under contract, so, in training, we send them on peacekeeping missions, they come back and leave the army. What's that number? I don't really know, but I'd like to know that information, if you could give it to me. If not now, you can also deliver in writing to our parliamentary group, I would be very grateful. A speaker earlier mentioned a good thing, which is the return of compulsory military service for which our MP group stands. He said it would cost the Republic of Serbia's budget in the first year, and the minister said it would cost 70 billion dinars. Did anyone calculate how much it cost us to move to the professional military service regime? What's the cost of the state? What kind of material cost is that? Secondly, do we forget, say, that the army is also a major momentum of economic development, so when you have a large number of soldiers at military service, so you need to provide food for them, you need to provide uniforms, and all this can be done by domestic economy, domestic industry, so that's one engine of economic development. Secondly, if we want to be an independent state, if we want to have a national economy and national security, we can't have that if we don't invest in the military, if we don't have a strong and stable army. There are big and complex challenges. A moment ago, the previous speaker found that the way of war had changed, that there was a growing crisis, that there was a growing need for peace operations, for wars to last for 12 years, and they didn't know the end. We are a generation that has come out, which has experienced a war on its skin, and we live on a very turbulent terrain and in very turbulent circumstances and conditions. Look at the situation in Macedonia, so you know for yourself how tense the situation can be in BiH, and you know well how tight relations with Croatia have been and how much provocation came from Croatia in the previous period. We know well that Albanians also have territorial claims towards us, not only towards our territory, such as KIM, but still on. In all these circumstances, we must invest in our army, maximum. I would like to ask another question, given that our great friends from the EU, where we want to spread that peace together in the world, gave us 14.2 tons of poor uranium in 1999. The impoverished uranium is still carrying a great tribute to Serbia today. We have over 40,000 patients a year with malignancies. We have a cancer epidemic. Is it at the Ministry of Defence, if not, with some civilian authorities, but together the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Defence should create a national centre that could list and systematise all malignancies, and then do prevention and adequate treatment of people who have been ill. We have to deal with this monster from one center. You know, just now, in two, three years, it's gonna be 20 years since we've been bombed and then organ cancers, like lungs, like colon. We can expect a further increase in malignancies. Because of what I said, I sincerely hope that we will not take part in EU-sponsored peacekeeping operations. As for the UN-sponsored peacekeeping operations, I would like only the Ministry to respond well and assess well what our national interest is. It is certainly a good thing, if we have the capacity and conditions to protect our own border from migrants, to protect our country's security from all the challenges that are coming, and there are great challenges and there is a great threat to our people. I repeat, let's say, we haven't yet come up with an adequate explanation for the situation in Medvedja. Yesterday, a microphone was turned off for me when I wanted to talk about Serbian-Albanian relations, so I would remind them that we had asked them to take care of the situation in Medvedja, since certain members of the MUP on the territory illegally enrolled 7,500 Albanians in the polling list, or reported their residence and took 10m euros in fees for it. I would pray that such things are simply warned and resolved, because it is one of the indications that there is an offensive of our opponents to us. I thank you, gentlemen, for coming today to answer us and I sincerely hope that Serbia will never enter the EU or participate in EU peace operations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5168	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5169	First of all, let me get this straight, when I was talking about international organisations and regional initiatives, I was talking about humanitarian operations. When it comes to EU missions, you must know and the public must know that they are all under UN auspices. So, all EU missions are under UN mandate, and we as a candidate country have the right to participate there. As far as I know, for four years and a few months at the Ministry, no officer has taken off since the peace mission. He's got a soldier, but there's a lot of reason for that. If it's a private job opening, we welcome it, it's a good thing, because that's how the private sector develops. As far as radioactivity is concerned, control is carried out every day at the Ministry of Defence and in the country, wherever the military comes out to control radioactivity. We have no information that there is radioactivity present anywhere now.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5170	The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5171	I'm sorry, you've misread it. I didn't say it had radioactivity. I asked about the consequences of the bombing carried out by the NATO Pact in 1999 when he sent 14.2 tons of poor uranium to this country. These consequences, of course, cannot be measured. The radioactivity went to the ground, went to the water streams. We as citizens feel these consequences. I'm sure you know about the epidemic of malignancies that is affecting us and which will continue to grow in progression. Has the Ministry of Defence ever, or in co-operation with the Ministry of Health, launched any national centre that he would follow, tried to give an answer, given that the Ministry of Defence has serious health capacities under its wing? Did it ever come to that question? If not, here's a chance to run it as a national strategy that the government could put as one of its priorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5172	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5173	There's that at the Military Medical Academy and it's being followed. There's a center for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5174	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5175	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable ministers and guests of the Ministry of Defence, I hope we have every awareness that today's topic is extremely important and that we will not be dealing with daily political games and I really don't understand it, i.e. I understand, the previous speaker, that is their policy which, of course, is bad for Serbia, and I hope there will be as few such parliamentary groups as possible, but I do not understand even a speaker before him from the Socialist Movement calling for a return to regular military service, and his party president did not serve the military. Well, well, let's get back to the subject. We have before us a proposal for a decision on the participation of the Serbian Army in multinational operations for 2016, and as an MP for the Democratic Party, I have one legitimate question. I'm sure the minister will give an adequate answer. Nothing would be disputed if today was not on November 2, 2016, the Honorable Ministers, why we did not make this decision on the participation of members of the Army in multinational operations or peace missions at the beginning of 2016, but we are now making that decision. I'm not prejudged, I'm not saying that there's something secret behind it, but I just want an answer so we know what we're facing. I'll come back later, in the next text of the speech, on what the Democratic Party prejudges. The provision of Article 5(4) of the Defence Act has just prescribed that the defence of the country be achieved through the participation of the military in multinational operations and peacekeeping missions. It's something that's good, it's something the Democratic Party and then Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac deserve, and that should be clearly pointed out. I am really pleased that we have succeeded in this second part of the hall after 20 years to convince them not to protest it, that Serbia is no longer willing to be someone's gourmet, but that they are today also pushing for the Serbian Army to participate in multinational operations and peace missions and thus defend its sovereignty and integrity. I hope if we needed to reduce them for 20 years, that it would take us a little less to educate the Dvora to accept the policy that the Democratic Party has been implementing, which it has been for 27 years and I am glad that we have the same views on the issue. We, at the time of the Socialist Party authorities and the Radical Party, the current Serbian Progressive Party, had imports of security into our country's territory and that was really bad. We had an import of security, coming to the Democratic Party's power. Since 2000, this country, i.e. Serbia has become an exporter of security, and that is what is extremely important to say. Serbia's military has been professionalised and modernised right from 2007 to 2012 and has achieved the best results when the defence minister was current Democratic Party President Dragan Sutanovac. There are several things that are bad and we need to talk about these topics, because the topic of the Army and its participation in multinational operations is how these soldiers live when they are not involved in multinational operations, but when they are here in Serbia. During the Serbian Progressive Party, four ministers were changed in four and a half years. It is not a consistent policy and it is not a policy that can bring good things to the Ministry of Defence and a complex and large system. What's bad is that every minister who heads the Ministry of Defense is worse than his predecessor. I'm sure it won't be a case with you respected ministers, and I hope, first of all, for your family living in this country, that it won't be the case with you. On the other hand, it is extremely difficult to be worse than your predecessor, Mr. Gasic, so if he tries, and I'm sure you won't, you can't be worse than Mr. Gasic. I want you to be the most successful defence minister, because this country where I live, where my family lives, my children and of course we don't have cross-referencing views on things that are extremely important to this country. What is the question is, in the annual plan of using the Army of Serbia and other defence forces in the 2016 multinational operations, it is explicitly said that the implementation of the European Union military advisory mission in the Central African Republic is under way, and that our forces are taking part with the medical team in the capital of Bangen. Please let me get an answer to this question. According to all available data, the mission was stepped down on 16 July 2016, followed by a European Union training mission in the Central African Republic. Although the mission has been presented as a mission in which the Serbian Army is not participating, we have data that the Serbian Army is one of the ten countries that sent its troops there. If you can answer what's true? Also, available data from the Ministry of Defence website and the Serbian Army do not specify our participation in the European Union Training Mission in the Central African Republic, and they are also contradictory on the part of the European Union military mission, also in the Central African Republic, and please answer this question, what exactly is this? If this is all true, by whose order, by whose authority, in whose consent is our army there in accordance with another ten countries? I'm not saying it's bad, the Democratic Party will support the participation of the Serbian Army in multinational operations, but just so we know if the chain of command and decision-making has been respected, because I respect that you're in favour of participation of our members in multinational operations, but we know that it's not natural and it's not appropriate that today, with your sock on your foot from the Serbian Progressive Party, you're saying that our army is going to step up with the world, and at night with your sock, you're tearing down objects in "Savaali", so it's not respect for the rule of law. What is extremely bad is that today more than 80% of the members of the Republika Srpska Army earn less than the average earnings in the Republic of Serbia. I hope that you will give your maximum to change the current rebalancing and budget for 2017, because defeating human data, some have fought for this country, we know how difficult... (Alexander Martinovic, from the scene: You were stealing and drinking beer. ) Dear President, I would ask you to ensure that I finish, that Mr. Martinovic does not throw.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5176	I will. Please do not throw, let the MP return to the agenda theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5177	Seventy percent of civilians, which are military officials and tenants, have an average salary of 22,000 dinars. I understand why Parliamentarian Martinovic throws away, when he has four salaries and a total amount...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5178	Ambassador, I'm really going to shut you down. So far, everyone's been talking about the topic or at least the military, and you... (Radoslav Milojic, from town: I am talking about the subject. You either can't or you won't. (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: Why he throws me.) Alexander Martinovic is not a member of Serbia's Army. It's not active. And you've been saying things. You've opened the topic, and now we're going to go completely after your speech and get off the subject. (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: Can I finish? You can finish if you want to talk about it. You've caused replicas and everything, so much for the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5179	As I said, 70% of civilians, officials and tenants have a salary below 22,000 dinars. It is simply not the life of decent people who work at the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Police or even in the private sector, with 22,000 dinars no one can make ends meet. The average net profit is 82% of the sub-office, which is below 40,000 dinars. That's about 300 euros, it's really devastating for the Ministry of Defence. During 2015, the military left most professional soldiers, if you can tell me if that information is correct. Out of the total number of soldiers who left the Army of Serbia during 2015, 72% did so on their own request, so these are not people who did not respond to the demands, who are unable to perform the job, but 72% left the army on a personal request. In the first two months of 2016, over 150 professional soldiers left the service in the Republika Srpska Army. What's really bad is that all countries in the region have bigger salaries than our officers, officers and soldiers in the Army of the Republic of Serbia receive. Even in neighbouring Croatia, the sergeant has a salary of about 900 euros. An MP I won't mention his name to, but perhaps after the second question, and that MP of the ruling majority, said that Serbian Army pilots do not fly and that the sky is unguarded. That was even a question to the prime minister he didn't have an answer to, so I ask you to answer that question. No tire for moments, no battery for moments. This is a state that is inadmissible in 2016, please answer me if this is the information that is correct? That HT-40 and HT-48 helicopter pilots had no helmets for more than a year, adequate fastening belts, and that they didn't have a sufficient number of tape recorders. Dear Minister, I hope this situation in the defense system improves. I wanted you to be the most successful defence minister, and I hope that the problem with paying classes will be resolved because, through the payroll classes, up to 25,000 dinars will be taken down at the monthly level, and you will, as a flat-rate increase of 5% that fills the news columns, give 1,830 dinars, which means that you will take over 25,000 dinars to the top officers of the Serbian Army through pay grade problems. If you make that decision and pay them back 1,832 dinars, which is really inadmissible. That's how much I hope we have a successful day today. The Democratic Party, I say, will once again support the participation of our army in multinational operations and peacekeeping missions, because these are exactly the things that the democratic party has been up to for 27 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5180	Thank you, Mr. Milojich. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5181	Article 107 has been injured. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I don't know if this historic speech was written by Krešimir Macan in time by Tudjman's press advisor, and in 2016 by the campaign creator DS, but I must point out that one brutal violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. It is said here that the SNS is responsible for some crimes, for wartime events in the former Yugoslavia, so I just want to remind the previous speaker that in 1992 his party adopted so-called. The Sokoban declaration in which the DS allegedly advocated the unification of all Serbian countries, and during the war events in BiH, the DS had its own paramilitary formation led by the famous Ljubisa Savic Mauser, and as much as they cared about the security of Serbian citizens, it is best to say that in 2003 they failed to prevent the murder of either the prime minister or the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. As far as the state of the Ministry of Defence is concerned, if they had stolen less, there would have been more money for both soldiers and officers, both for sub-offices and for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. There was also talk of former Defence Minister, Mr. Gasic. I don't know how the previous speaker, a well-known beer, is no shame while stealing his own municipality, Defence Minister Bratislav Gasic was on the ground in Smederjevska Palanca in 2014 and out of Smederevska Palanka until it was completed by the end of the field association that was exposed to the floods.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5182	I thank Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5183	I am not asking to vote, but we will not allow criminals who have ruined Serbia, who have otherwise led to a difficult situation in the Serbian Army to spit on the SNS and on the defence minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5184	It's been two minutes. The word is made by Minister Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5185	I have been present in the Ministry of Defence for four years and I was State Secretary while our prime minister of defense, Aleksandar Vukic. I was also when he was Mr. Rodić and he was Gasic. I must tell you, it was an honor and a pleasure to be Secretary of State when they were all three ministers. I know how much effort they have made for this country and Serbia's Army to get better in it, and that was the only continuation of the continuity that was continued and I am now trying to continue this continuity and policy of making the Serbian Army better. I didn't understand the intrusion. You know we have one question for you, and that's the question of destroying the House of the Army in the Smederjev Palace, how and in what way is it done? Whoever's leaving and who's coming, you're right that maybe the most leaves when it comes to a category of professional soldiers who leave Serbia the most, but you need to know that even the most professional soldiers are coming to the Army of Serbia. This year you say 150, it's now November 1st, 300, and we plan to bring 1,500 next year. We continue to fill Serbia's army with professional soldiers. That's our strategy, too. When you talk about pay grade, I don't know where you got that information. The pay grade doesn't change anywhere, nor does anything in the army when it comes to pay grade. Explain to me, since I don't know as a minister, maybe you know something I don't. When it comes to planes, you see in the sky Serbian planes. These aren't foreign planes. It's our planes and helicopters. I don't know what they're flying with if there's no resources and if they have nothing to fly with, batteries. When it comes to wages, I think the people of Serbia know and we have an informant on the Ministry of Defence website, which you can look at, where it says you're right when it comes to low-skilled who has an average salary of 22,771 dinar. Above them there are also qualified, highly qualified, SSS, VSS, highly educated, masters and doctors. If you're taking an average of these, the Department of Defense doesn't have 70% of the job as low-skilled personnel. We have a highly qualified frame of two-thirds, so take the math yourself and you'll get as much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5186	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, first of all, MP Vladimir Orlic. And you've advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5187	Mr. Chairman, I did it before the minister got his word. It is already pointed to the provision of article 107. This is where I wanted to remind myself of the provisions of the article. 106, 108 and 109, which have something to do with what happened, which is not accepting a correct suggestion that certain things in this house are simply not done. I understand that whoever holds the presidency has to show a certain degree of understanding for the reach and capacity of certain people here. On my part, I'm trying to understand some things, so when it comes to a gentleman who just spoke as an authorised representative, some things can simply be attributed to being immature, political first of all. And I try every time we criticize it to be with a certain paternal mildness, but that someone is unable to understand certain things can't be an excuse. It's totally unacceptable for someone here on the subject today to talk about some stockings, lepers, other parties. If someone is unable to agree on a concise five-minute speech, it may be a good time to wonder if he is even up to calling the MP. When we talk about what was happening in this country and in this portfolio, it might not be a bad idea to direct certain people to the topic, which is about Article 106, by asking them – are they able to calculate the damage caused by them or by their representatives who are today some presidents of theirs, for example. military pensions, but to calculate it in hundreds of millions of solid currencies, not in the Heinicken bottles, which is obviously the only calculation system some here are capable of. I'm not asking us to vote on this. We ask that we take care of these things, that people value MPs as people of integrity, not as certain creatures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5188	Thank you. (Radoslav Milojičić, from place: Replica. ) First of all, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, MP George Komlenski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5189	Replica, I apologize. I was looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5190	The breach of the Rules of Procedure has an advantage over replication. Let's see who asked. I think MP Radoslav Milojic has advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. (Radoslav Milojičić, from place: Replica. To the exhibit? Whose exposure? (Radoslav Milojic, from the post: Mr Martinović and Minister. ) Mr. Martinovic advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You can't get a replica on a breach of the Rules of Procedure. (Radoslav Milojic, from the post: Na Minister. ) The minister answered the questions you asked during your presentation. (Radoslav Milojic, from the post: I answer the Minister's questions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5191	Your Honor, since you asked me a direct question, that dispute is in court, unless I'm wrong and how much information I have. I hope you have information that my smallness at the time was not the president of the municipality, when that dispute happened or when those things were done, but I would like, since you were talking about planes, to tell me whether it was true that the General Staff did not receive because of the irregularities of the Lasta aircraft flying on the New Sad Military Parade, and was it a threat to security, both the state summit and the citizens that happened there? We've got intel that the General Staff didn't receive those planes because they were wrong, but they had to take off because of something, probably to show how powerful we are. The second thing I want to point out here is that the contract between Serbia and Egypt, which Serbia has delivered five thousand guns to the CZ-99 brand, is that these guns have been returned to us and that contract. Who made that contract, why were those guns returned, and who supervised the delivery of that weapon? I don't really want to deal with these baseless accusations, and I don't want to answer to a man who has four salaries, four functions and 400,000 dinars, while our soldiers work for 30,000 dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5192	Please, let's get back to the subject. The word has a People's MP, George Komlenski, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5193	I thank you, Chairman. I'm not going to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but you hurt him, because I had to get the right to a replica before the so-called Mr. Milojcic. I can only conclude here today that Mr. Milojcic and DS obviously have no idea what the party's position is and what the individual's position is. They probably don't have the same thing with us. The position of the Socialist Movement is that the military deadline should be mandatory and re-served. Those who were just called a football club were supposed to cross him into Heinken United in order to be a complete situation, I really don't know how they give themselves the right to comment at all. As the ruling party, they brought Serbia's army down to the lowest possible branches, narrowed it down, ruined it, and today they give themselves the right to comment on anything. They should really, as the people say, cover themselves with ears, shut up and be smaller than a macaque grain, while someone else corrects all the nonsense and pigs they've made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5194	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5195	As far as information goes, you were the vice president of the municipality, and when it comes to guns, you have to ask the flag, because it's the business secret of the flag. He'll probably answer you. As far as the plane is concerned, in Novi Sad, you know there were eight planes flying. Eight planes have been admitted, should be subject to 14, those six that haven't been admitted or flown. And we, unlike some former defence ministers, don't make planes fly before they're admitted. I owe you one answer, which is - the Army's annual use plan was sent on time last year, that is, this year in January. However, because of the elections and the crowds you had in Parliament, it did not come up with a plan. Because of the whole procedure he's been repeated again and he's come to order now. But for the record, the law allows and says that it is adopted in the current year, it doesn't say in the first half or in the second half.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5196	Thank you, Minister. In the system reported MP Srdjan Nogo. Is it the basis of your call? Please, is it the basis of your call? (Srdian Nogo, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104) You don't, you don't get, you don't get, I can't let you, and you can't get the word. National MP Radoslav Milojcic, replica, right? Take it easy. First of all, when it comes to the DS parliamentary group. It is true that the said DS and the right to replica can have an authorised representative of the parliamentary group or the president of the parliamentary group. Since Mr. Milojcic answered the question, Mr. Kiriq can't give you a word. Here you go, Mr. Sweetie, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5197	Mr. Circi came forward based on DS. Dear Minister, it means that I was right to be late, that the army was already headed for multinational operations and that we were making this decision later, or that we should have made that decision. You said you sent that decision to parliament in January, but that the election did not put the decision to the vote. But well, that's not the point. The theme is that the mentioned minister, whom you referred to as the worst, is precisely the best defence minister in the last 15 years, and that is what the people of the Ministry of Defence can confirm, because the debt when Mr Sutanovac entered the post as defence minister was 2.7 billion in 2007. When Minister Sutanovac left the post of defence minister, the debt was zero. It is true, Mr. Minister, that you, as some formerly, don't make planes fly when it isn't time, but your SNS minister, unfortunately, made a helicopter fly when it isn't time, so that's the case that we've lost seven human lives. I hope these mistakes don't happen again.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5198	Mr. Milicic, thank you. In accordance with article 112, we're taking a five-minute break. After that, we continue to work, in order of the registered presidents and authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups. Thank you. [[After a break.]] We're going back to work. Comrade Martinovic, you've reached out to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5200	I've reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I don't know who wrote this speech to this DS man, I guess Kresimir Macan, so in his speech, which someone else wrote to him, mixed the looks of Franju Tudjman, Dragan Sutanovac, since Kresimir Macan worked for both, in 1995 he was head of the Department of Information of the Ministry of Defence of Croatia, and in 2016, I don't know, for some 60, 70,000 euros he worked for DS, so since the gentleman can't possibly remember all that data and facts, then he mixed it all up. The situation at the Ministry of Defence was such that I hope that Mr. Djordjevic will agree with me, so disastrously inherited by the current president of the DS, that in 2014, we did not have enough boats, military boats, to save people in areas affected by floods, and we did not even have water pumps, or pumps that were meant to pump water from flooded areas, so we had to get these pumps as donations from Slovenia. So, not only did they destroy our tanks, our planes, not only by ruining our security system inside the Serbian Army, but also by ruining the most important things that the military should have, but civil protection. We didn't have enough rubber boats and water pumps. As for the demolition of this military facility in the Smederjevska Palanca, when the gentleman was vice president of the municipality, you know what they did? They've declared that the object is prone to fall. An object that had an FI-20 armature in it, so it couldn't even bomb itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5201	Thank you. Mr. Martinovic, time's up.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5202	Do you know what they did to that House of the Smederian Palanca Army? Maxi store for Miroslav Miskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5203	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5204	As far as the military's use plan is concerned, I said very strictly – to bring it into line with the law, it is necessary in the current year, this is still the current 2016, as far as I know. As far as this data is concerned, I'd just add data that the war material reserves were zero, that the food was zero, that the equipment was missing, that there was no uniforms and shoes and other things. It may be true that Mr. Sutanovac returned the debt that was made at the time, so he returned it himself, but he must know that the people of Serbia today, according to our economic qualifications, 485, we set aside about a billion for the damages that occurred in the past period before 2012.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5205	Thank you. (Goran Ciric, from the place: Replica. The Democratic Party is mentioned. I really don't want to believe that you don't know the Rules of Procedure about the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I tried to explain it a little bit. To mention DS, and that's a little bit done... (Goran Ciric, from the post: Now Mr. Aleksandar Martinovic mentioned twice DS and Dragan Sutanovac. The minister also mentioned Dragan Sutanovac. ) Mr. Martinovic advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The displayed breach of the Rules of Procedure will be declared by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia... Will you let me explain? Then I'll give you my word that you explain. If you do not wish, I have no intention of having a dialogue with you, but a session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So, Mr. Martinovic pointed out the violation of the Rules of Procedure and did not insist that, as far as I understand it, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the day of the vote be heard. You on the breach of the Rules of Procedure don't have the possibility of a replica. On the other hand, you had little ground for replication. I have explained to you, on the mention of DS, which is a little bit done, the basis for the replica may have either the head of the parliamentary group or, in this particular case, when it comes to this joint single principled search, the authorised representative of the DS and he has been given this You have no basis for replication. [[Goran Ciric, from the post: I want you to give me the replica because the minister mentioned Dragan Sutanovac.]] Among other things, Article 104(3) says that the exercise of the rights laid down in Articles 1 and 2 of this article is decided by the President of the National Assembly, in particular by the chairman. Mr. Vesovicu, you've advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Please come in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5206	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I declare breach of Rules of Procedure Article 104(2). - if offensive expressions refer to a parliamentary group, or a political party whose MPs belong to that parliamentary group, the President of the Parliament Group shall have on behalf of the parliamentary group the right to reply. You are completely, not guilty or indemnity, I am now advertising to you the violation of the Rules of Procedure because the reason for Mr Nog's replica, who at the moment is President of the Dveri Group, happened at the moment when you were changing the presidency with until then the chairman, Maja Gojkovic. So the gentleman from the DS turned extremely offensively to the MP group Dveri, and that's why the basis was for replication. On the same basis, you gave the replica to Mr. Komlenski, and since I am convinced that you are a truly righteous man, I think you have a reason, especially what happened at that time, to give Mr. Nog a replica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5207	Mr. Vesovicu, make sure I'm very fair. It is true that when Mr. Nogo, as president of the parliamentary group, asked for a word and, as I understand it, was a violation of the Rules of Procedure, I did not chair at that time. The president of the National Assembly didn't point out that Mr. Nogo had a basis for getting the word, and that's why I wasn't able to let him get the word. On the other hand, as far as your presentation is concerned, you must know that the MP may point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but immediately after the injury has been done. Thank you. (Dragan Vesovic, from the place: I couldn't get my turn.) ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Stevanović. The basis of the report is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5208	I'm advertising Article 107(2).
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5209	Article 107 has already been advertised.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5210	A second attitude, please, in which, among other things, it is said...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5211	You didn't hear me. Rule 107, a breach of the Rules of Procedure has already been reported. The infringement of the Rules of Procedure to Article 107 is fully ordered. Mr. Martinovic pointed out entirely. I can't let you. Mr. Stevanović, you can't get a word based on article 107. The infringement of Rule 107 of the Rules of Procedure has been ordered for a short time. By the time you figure out which member you're going to call, article 106. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5212	Mr. Chairman, it doesn't make sense that you don't hear an MP speaking offensive words, and it doesn't make sense that you don't hear them, and we here hear the direct address of the MPs across the street. The gentleman who's head of the Parliament Club, among other things, and I don't know his name, I just remember his character, told the MP he was a thief.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5213	Mr. Stevanovic, Article 106 – the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is being conducted. The basis of Mr Martinovic's report was first a replica, then a breach of the Rules of Procedure. We're moving on with our work. The word has been given by an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, MP Vladan Zagradjan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5214	Thank you very much. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Mr. Minister with Associates, dear fellow MPs, today the National Assembly is discussing two very important documents in the area of defence and security. It is the decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2016 and the proposal for a decision to adopt the Annual Plan for the Use of the Army of Serbia and other bodies in multinational operations in 2016. These documents will also apply in 2017. Serbia as a member of the UN has a long tradition of participation in peacekeeping missions, these international organisations, and as a European country also participates in EU missions, which it has gained in recent years. I want this opportunity to remind myself of the importance of multinational peacekeeping operations and the UN missions that are the central element of international response to numerous conflict situations in countries or between states. The UN peacekeeping missions provide basic security to millions of people at a time and right after the war conflicts and other conflict dangerous to peace and security. Serbia has experience and understands well how much humanity and solidarity mean in such circumstances. UN peacekeeping missions are approved by the Security Council, which gives them full legitimacy and is guaranteed the neutrality of these missions. It can be said that exactly the neutrality of multinational peacekeeping missions is the basis for their success in establishing peace and resolving conflict in crisis areas around the world. Today in the world, unfortunately, there are many thorny and crisis areas with weak central authority in which rebels or inter-warring ethnic groups, whose conflicts cannot be resolved by the state itself. It is precisely in these areas that the UN peacekeeping forces are taking part in an effort to resolve these conflicts with the authority of the UN and the responsible behaviour of the mission participants. The United Nations launched its first peacekeeping mission to the Middle East in 1948 to monitor the truce, with 68 UN missions in more than 45 countries launched since then. According to available data in UN peacekeeping missions, 118 countries with nearly 80,000 military and over 11,000 police personnel and 17,000 civilians have participated so far. Over 2,000 volunteers from 160 countries have participated in the missions so far. It is precisely this decades of practice that has shown that multinational peace operations under the auspices of the UN as the largest international organisation have justified the application of this crisis management concept by means of efficiency. These missions have also proved effective from an economic point of view, saving both the UN and the participating countries budgets. According to UN acts, the cost of the mission is shared by the UN and the participating state and Serbia has its own blue helmets, with a long tradition of participation in international peacekeeping missions either as the Republic of the SFRY, as the SRJ or the Association of Serbia-Montenegro or as an independent state. The first UN mission to participate in the SFRY was in the Sinai Peninsula where our forces participated from 1956 to 1967. For a reminder, I would say that after the re-entry of the UN, the first international mission in which Serbia participated was a multinational UN operation in East Timor in which we participated from 2002 until its closure in 2005. Serbia as a European country leading an active foreign policy participates in reducing security risks in Europe and through continued participation in EU missions that are increasingly gaining importance in the context of the strengthening of autonomous European structures and security mechanisms in the EU and Europe as a whole. How important Serbia is to participate in international peace missions as a form in international military co-operation also tells the fact that as an organisational form, there is also a Centre for Peace Operation General Staff of the Serbian Army. This centre deals with the selection of personnel, education, organisation and realization of the participation of our forces in international peace missions. Serbia's Peace Operation Centre is a full member of the European Training Centre's European Association for the peace missions of the operation and the international association of training centres for peace operations. Today, the National Assembly is considering a decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2016 as well as an annual plan for the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations this year. On the map of our participation in Blue Flag missions in 2016 and the following 2017 are destinations of moss in Africa, Asia, the Mediterranean. It's about 21 missions with different tasks and goals. According to the participation plan discussed today, Serbian peacemakers will take part in the next missions in Liberia, the Ivory Coast, the Congo, Malius, Sudan, Somalia, the Western Sahara, Jama and Kashmir. The plan envisions operations in the Middle East and the Mediterranean, Cyprus and Lebanon, with our forces taking the right path this year to participate in missions in the Western Sahara, Mali, Jim and Kashmir in southern Sudan and Sudan. The interior ministry will send its members to Liberia to Cyprus and Haiti. We're still sending the most powerful forces to Lebanon. It is significant to point out that in the Central African Republic, we have a military hospital that employs 72 members of our forces. As a very significant mention, I would like to mention the Atalanta mission in which our autonomous ship protection team participates under the flag of the EU. Now on the ground is a team of 12 members of the special brigade and four staff officers, their primary task is to protect the vessel from pirates. The newspaper in the plan to use our forces is the possibility of participating in European operations in the Mediterranean. Our officers will oversee the situation in North Africa. They will monitor, work to curb migrant movements and human trafficking. This mission will also have great importance for Serbia, given that the migrant crisis is one of the most burdened states, because we are on the most busy Western-Balkan migrant route. What I particularly want to point out is the extraordinary human resources of members of our military and police forces participating in international missions. These are the excellent psychological and physically prepared members of the Police Army, ready to perform and the most complex tasks that peace missions require. Serbian peacemakers, soldiers, police officers have always received whatever tasks in missions, whose participants were, safeguarding the reputation of Serbia, honorably and dignifiedly represented it. So, our army, and in this way, proudly represents our country, in the world expanding friendly relations with other countries and nations, is gaining new experience for the greatest challenges, and the economic side of these arrangements is not negligible either. What's most important to these missions is that we retain military neutrality. I am taking this opportunity to thank them on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group for that. When it comes to contributing to international peace missions, Serbia is considered a leader in the region, and foreign partners in international missions of the Serb soldier consider it a capable, reliable and cultural partner, as Mr Milivove Pajovic, head of the Peace Operations Centre, once cited by Mr. Milivove Pajovic, whose responsibility is to realise the decision on the participation and plan to use our military and police forces in international peacekeeping missions. Finally, for all of these reasons, I would like to say that the SPS parliamentary group will support both documents and decisions on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations and the decision to adopt an annual plan on the use of the Serbian Army and other bodies in multinational operations in 2016 to be applied in 2017. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5215	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass the act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5216	Thank you, Chairman. I'm advocating Article 108 that the order of the session is being taken care of by the chairman, that is, the President of the Assembly, at the moment you. You have broken the Rules of Procedure twice by not giving a word to the head of the DS parliamentary group, Mr. Ciric. I appeal to you that you do not have so much fear, that you do not look at each of your decisions to the right of the SNS parliamentary benches. Don't be so scared, it's no big deal to be an opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5217	Mr. Milojicic, I have the impression that you want to replicate and continue to have a dialogue with me. (Radoslav Milojičić, from the place: The Assembly and serves for it. Do I look like someone who... Yes, with MPs, but not with me as chairman at the moment. Do I look scared to you, too, and do I look like someone with fear? I explained to Mr. Kiric that he had no basis for receiving his word. (Goran Ciric, from the place: I had a basis and you know it well. He is the head of the parliamentary group, but he can't get a word, because you're in the O.R. as an authorised representative on these agenda points. (Radoslav Milojic, from the site: I took out the card, Mr. Milicevic. But you're physically present, so we can't play. There's a card or there's no card, I can't guess. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the day of voting on the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure. (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: Yes. We continue to work. The word has a folk emissary, Dubravka Philopovska. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5218	Thank you, Chairman. I appreciate your efforts to return to normal debate at this session. I am personally against politicisation when it comes to discussing any law relating to the Serbian Army. I am not against dialogue, parliament being held in parliament, but I am against abuse and insult. I think you've done it successfully by now and returned this session to normal flows. Serbia's army is certainly an organised system. We could also see that in the floods that have hit us, we can also see from our members who participate in peacekeeping missions, it is professionalized and modernised. I am pleased as a member of the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs that our Army is recording the trend of growth by participating in UN peacekeeping operations and that we are currently the third country in Europe by the number of soldiers and soldiers in peace operations. Participation in building and preserving peace in the region and the world is one of three missions of the Serbian Army and is based on established, security and defence needs and interests, and is in line with the National Security Strategy, the Defence Strategy and the Strategic Defence Review of the Republic of Serbia. It is important for Serbian citizens to point out that the Serbian Army is the best way to represent the country, provide security in countries where they participate in peacekeeping missions and raise the reputation of Serbia's armies, our foreign policy and Serbia in general. In all peace operations, they show a high degree of training, a high degree of preparation. A large number of them are also rewarded for their participation in peace operations. I don't think the money we're investing in military missions is a big, on the contrary, benefit that we have as a state and our foreign policy, it's coming back to us multiple times. For me, it's very important, as MPs, that a soldier participates in peace operations. I am pleased that this trend is recording growth and that it is now 11% and that together with soldiers, they show a high degree of training and preparation. We regularly discuss these issues on a Committee on Defence and Home Affairs. At the end of my presentation, I would like to say that the NS parliamentary group will also support the proposal for a decision on the participation of Serbian military members in multinational operations and a proposal for a decision on the adoption of the annual plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5219	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary, Jasmina Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5220	Thank you. Dear Ministers, respected representatives of the Serbian Army, ladies and gentlemen, participate in multinational operations to build and preserve peace is one of the tasks of defence policy of the Republic of Serbia that stems from its strategic definitions and three declared missions -- an effective defence system, peace and a favourable security environment and integration into international security structures. By engaging members of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia under the mandate of the UN and the EU, the Republic of Serbia undoubtedly strengthens its security capacities, diplomatic relations, quality. Undoubtedly, Serbia is a recognised partner in the preservation of peace worldwide. Our members of the defense force are prepared and trained, rewarded and decorated in almost all peacekeeping missions, professionals of trust. I consider this decision right in that sense. We've already discussed these decisions on committees. I especially thank the defence minister, who then gave exhaustive and concrete answers to the questions asked immediately after the questions were asked. Here, and now he keeps doing it. I find, however, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia proposed on October 4th, and the Assembly adopted a proposal for a decision to adopt an annual plan on the use of Serbia's military and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2016, as well as a decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in accordance with the Constitution, Law and Rules of Procedure. The Assembly, however, adopts this plan before the end of 2016 and we have already talked about it here today in the tide, for which the plan is proposed. So, with great delay, we will agree, as compared to the calendar year, although it is in the law that the current year is certainly, it is compared to the previous plan, because it has been several months between the end of the previous plan. I know there's a provision to extend the fact of the plan. It's all right. Why do I think it's important that I draw attention to this? Because the annual plan is something that came with the strategy and that actually sets out the mission and objectives of peace operations and it is important to be adopted as early as possible during the year so that the annual plan can be carried out in accordance with the mission. This contains other elements of importance for the approval of the implementation of the annual plan. Now, what does it matter to me? The report on the implementation of the 2015 annual plan has not yet reached the Assembly, so I would ask a question – do you know when it will arrive in the Assembly? As far as I know, correct me if I'm wrong, because under Article 17 of the law, the government is said to adopt a report at the end of the financial year on the implementation of the annual plan for the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations. Why do I say that? Because we're going to adopt a plan for a year that's practically up to date before we've considered a report for the previous year. I therefore suppose the Proposer also proposes that this sublaw act, a decision, be taken by emergency procedure and called for Article 167. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. This should not be possible, as Article 167 states that, as an act which can be adopted by an emergency procedure, the law only states. I'll read it. It's a technical matter. I'll read it to the voice. According to the urgent procedure, a law governing issues and relations can be passed following circumstances and which could not be foreseen, the adoption of laws under emergency procedure could result in adverse consequences for people's lives and health, country security, etc. Therefore, the decision is also reasoned in accordance with Article 151. The Rules of Procedure, as if it were an emergency law, not a decision. This has not been done in previous years, neither 2015 nor 2014, nor 2013, 2012 that I am not going backwards now. I repeat, it's a technical matter. There are some other members of the Rules of Procedure who define in less detail how the second act of urgency is proposed. That's Article 94, if I'm not mistaken, and let's say Article 168. Rules of Procedure. So, regardless of this technical matter, I repeat, it is technical, the question of preconditions for the adoption of an emergency act is raised. We had a chance to hear about it today, too. It is not clear from the reasons that circumstances could not be predicted. I heard that today you actually sent the annual plan to the Assembly in January and that you said that a good part of the reason and the fact that there were elections, that the year was electoral. Why do I say that? The annual plan is adopted when the Law on the Use of the Army and other defence forces was adopted in multinational operations in 2009. It is evident that the plan was written significantly earlier, the plan itself shows that it was drawn up, conditionally speaking, on time compared to the date of submission of the document to the Assembly and certainly before the end of August. For the sake of the example, it is said, say, that the mandate of the UN Peace Operation in the Republic of Lebanon has been extended until 31 August 2016, as is the plan, and I quote - his new extension is expected, the end of the quote. The mandate was extended on 30 August 2016 until 31 August 2017. So in that place, let's say, you can see that the plan wasn't updated. There's more. It is similar with the UN Mission in Liberia, where the mandate extended until 31 December 2016 on 14 September. Now, for UN peacekeeping operations in the Republic of Cyprus, there is an up-to-date report that the mission was extended on July 26th to January 31st 2017, and I conclude on this basis that the plan was certainly written significantly earlier and updated somewhere probably in July or before the end of August. What else is important to point out? That the EU military advisory mission in the Central African Republic of EUMAM RCA is listed as the 12th ongoing mission that began in June 2015, it has been largely completed. You certainly know that. What I must say is, this information is not on the Serbian Army website, which is otherwise a great stop, and I am pleased to praise, very transparent, all the information is on it, and I assume that the engagement of our members of the Serbian Army will continue and that we are practically awaiting the adoption of the annual plan in this mission, which represents the extension of this initial mission. So, I would ask the Proposer to possibly explain, although you have already said so, and perhaps you don't have to, why didn't the plan arrive in an up-to-date form, at least with this information that could have been added before it was presented to the Assembly on October 4th? In the light of the urgent procedure, it is said that the decision-making of an emergency procedure is necessary in order to ensure the smooth functioning of the bodies and organisations, as well as to prevent the adverse consequences that could result, i.e. to meet the international obligations undertaken. I would now ask the promoters, I think that information is useful and that MPs hear and citizens, what exactly are the adverse consequences? I guess it's about the UN sending in a call, but we're not able to send in members, because we're waiting for the adoption of the annual plan. Thank you. Last year's decision was made on 19 June 2015. Now I'm going to list some dates to point out the great dissuasion of adoption, I'm not saying assembly, I'm saying adoption of an annual plan in the current years, because I think that should be arranged. In 2015 the plan was adopted on 19 June, 2014 on 13 June, 2013 on 20 February, 2012, incredible, 24 December, 2011 on 28 February, 2010 on 29 June and 2009, when the law was passed, on 29 October. I really think this should be arranged. The Serbian army has a huge reputation, the Serbian Army knows what it does and these procedural things, such delays are not something that should go with it. I suppose that the timing of the annual plan is the reason why several recent years, in the proposal for a decision, finally says the provision that the plan will also apply to the next year until a new annual plan is adopted, which then covers, solves some problems of sending members, rotations, etc. So it's an annual plan that doesn't cover a calendar year in that case, and sometimes takes more than a year, as in this case, because it expired somewhere in June 2016. This further means that if the mandate of members of the Serbian Army and other defence forces has expired, and let's say the mission is not, there may be a problem in sending new members. I'll set an example of a peace operation in Haiti. I'm sorry if I'm not mistaken, there's no M.O.P. representative here, because it's a police matter. So, in this peace operation, police officers are engaged with a term of office of one year. Apparently, the mandate of police officers hired in 2015 expired in July 2016. I conclude this on the basis of a UN report showing that Serbia had four police officers by June 2016 when there were no more employees. So, they're not here in July and August. In 2015, the mandate was expired in March, and the members were not in April, May and June, but only in July. The annual plan for 2015 was adopted on 19 June and was sent after the adoption of the plan. The plan, however, says police officers are engaged with a term of one year, I mean the 2015 plan, that in 2015, this is very important, planned rotation, i.e. the replacement of four police officers. My question to the promoter is, who doesn't have one right now, because the annual plan together consists of the Ministry of Defense and the Ministry of Defense, when did the rotation happen? Is this the rotation that took place in September 2016 or in July 2015 when the members of the MUP were sent? Why would I ask that? In September, the Republic of Serbia, this year, sent four new police officers that the media reported. It is said in a statement by the MUP on 13 September of the current year, saying that on 13 September, the Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister spoke with members of the MUP, who will be on a peacekeeping mission to Haiti by the end of the week. The annual plan for 2015 was adopted on 19 June and it envisions a rotation. Is that the rotation that took place in 2015 or is that another rotation? In fact, can there be two rotations, even though they're not scheduled for any annual plan? I believe that one rotation is foreseen by the annual plan of 2015, that it is as planned, and the other one is not and then, for me, it is a grey zone of uncovered plan. Why do I say this because there is a very important provision of the Law on the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in which practically the President of the Republic, or the Government, makes a decision to send troops, or police, after the adoption of the annual plan. I also wonder if similar decisions were made between 19 June and 1 November? Are there any more? Why would I ask that? For example, the UN Liberija mission, the report says that currently one member of the Serbian Army and two police officers are involved. My question – when were police officers sent and did they, since they were not in the UN report from February 2016 to August? The plan is currently in place, but we can't know if it's up to date, because he's been updated somewhere, as I see it, at least in August of the month. Now I'm going to say something about the number of missions and members. The annual plan for the use of the military and other defence forces in other multinational operations in 2016 planned to refer up to 700 members of the Serbian Army and 800 members of the MUP to multinational EU operations. There are over 300 of them right now, so correct me if I'm wrong, and I tried to add it up, and I came up with a number of 330, 340, something like that, and you answered, Minister, on the board, I think it's 343, let's say. The number of missions is commendable. We are participating in eight of the UN's 16 ongoing missions and are planning to participate in another seven, which is practically all UN missions, if UNMIK is excluded, in two EU missions and three more are planned, that is, the report has three, and two are planned, but because of this transfer of RCA to this second mission, I have turned, out of 16. What would I be interested in? Why is the number of missions in which we participate under the EU's auspices less than the number of UN missions? Is there any reason? So it's a total of over 20 operations and missions, of which over 10 has members and plans new nine, or 10. That's great. I'm saying there's over 300 of us involved. What else is interesting to me? Probably the total number of members is significantly higher than countries in the region, so I found some data to say Macedonia sends one, Croatia seven, Montenegro four, Bosnia 40, Slovenia 18, Bulgaria two, Romania 96, Hungary, Spain 613 etc. So we're here somewhere. So the number of members has also increased year by year, which is commendable. This was also discussed at the last session of 2015. I will remind, for example, in 2007, he was 21 members, in 2008, 15, 2009, 46, 2010, 47, 2011, 82, 2012, 167, somehow doubled in 2013, in 539, 2015, 670. So now they're engaged 330, and they're planning 700. I don't know when they'll be sent, but probably in this annual coverage of the plan, and in 2017, practically. I don't know if I can conclude the number's down. He stays practically at the same level he was at last year, maybe a little bit more. I would be very interested, let's say, if you could, have time to tell us how members of the Serbian Army are elected to go on peacekeeping missions and what are the criteria. I know we've been seven times the number of members in Europe. I don't know if we're still here or maybe we're making progress here. I have another question - why is it considered an increase in the number of members important, it seems important, but I wonder if there is, is unlimited growth something we need or is there some optimal number to which we want to go in line with some of the goals we have? So where would we possibly stop, would we stop by a thousand, or would we stop somewhere with that number? I think it's good to be a member of our defence forces in peace operations, work on developing relations, raise capacities, make great ambassadors of Serbia, as they stand out in all missions, receive the highest recognitions and medals. Now I'm asking -- do you maybe measure, or are you planning to measure, I have to say that the minister looks like a person who would do it, an effect, or do you have any indicators, progressive parameters drawn from the objectives based on which we measure this contribution of our participation in peace operations? The example works – how it affects foreign policy, whether it affects the number of exercises held with all strategic partners, so the United States, Europe, Russia, China. For example, does it affect the increase in arms exports? I think the funds that stand out are certainly significant, but when we compare the benefits with the participation of these funds compared to the overall budget of the Serbian Army, if I'm not mistaken, correct me, it's about 2%, compared to the overall budget of the Serbian Army, I think it's worth the money being used well. For example, for schooling, we had this a few sessions here in the Assembly, for schooling students in the budget, i.e. The extension of education from one year on the budget is 22 billion dinars, and here we are raising a billion and 700 million dinars for multinational operations, which is about 10-11 times less, or more. What else would I be interested in? Why is the budget more than 300 million dinars compared to last year's? I guess there's a reason, some cost. And, finally, I would like to congratulate the military observers, staff officers, medical staff, sanity teams and military hospital, water and company level units and autonomous ship protection teams at the good representation of Serbia around the world and ask representatives of the Serbian Army to share with us Serbian MPs and citizens some field experience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5221	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5222	When it comes to impressions from the field, members of the Defence and Home Affairs Committee have the right and I think it was the idea to visit a peace operation, so you'll have a chance to go somewhere of your choice. I may skip the line of answers, but I'll try to answer everything. When it comes to choice, the choice is made, the psychological test is done, the health test, the physical preparation and the evaluation it has in the previous period. In addition to the commission, the inspectorate and the military police are present, precisely for the choice to be right. As for our reputation and how we measure it, that's what our partners show to which we are desirable, who insist on coming with us, especially when it comes to medical teams. Our people there also have the opportunity to train in such situations, which here in peaceful cases does not have the possibility and of course, there is also the fact that their standards are increasing, because there are bigger issues. When it comes to what number that limit is, of course we are looking at the budget options to send and on that basis we are planning. We might find it more interesting to go on as many missions as possible and go with fewer people. Why is there less in the EU? For reasons that the EU does not have as much compensation as we have in the UN. This is where we get more money for participation. We have a tendency, a future strategy and a policy is to send equipment, not people, and since the return of money, when we send equipment is far greater, so we will tend to send equipment, military hospital, engineering teams, etc. When it comes to the report, he's in the process. I guess he'll be here on the agenda by the end of the year. We also want to amend the Law on Multinational Operations, which will also be before you MPs here and where we will have the possibility, right next to all these things you said, to change and the fact that we can't send civilians, so that we wish that civilians can go where possible and where there are conditions for civilians to be sent. The Central African Republic's mandate expired in July, and that may have left the issue withheld. People came back from that rotation in July, the other members who were in the UN 72. Now there's 332, the moment we talked to the board there were 334, but that's because they went into rotation, in exchange, so there were so many at that point. I just said how many there are in that moment. As for internal affairs, I don't know the specific answer, I can tell you what I have here, as far as Haiti and the 2015 report, that it was done in accordance with the plan, but I can ask you as a question and deliver an answer to you as an MP. That's what I can do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5223	I thank the ministers. The word has the People's MP Bozidar Delic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5224	Thank you. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I present the SRS' views on the annual plan for the engagement of the Serbian Army and the interior ministry forces in peace and humanitarian missions. Mr. Minister, there is no way to defend or defend this fact that the annual defence plan is being adopted in November. This is absolutely inadmissible, something called the annual plan and related to 2016, was to be adopted by the previous Assembly. You said the Ministry made a plan in time and delivered it to the previous government. I quote Article 7, the use of Serbia's military and other defence forces in multinational operations is said to be decided on the basis of an annual plan for the use of the military and other defence forces, in the text below - the annual plan. The National Assembly shall consider and adopt an annual plan of use for the implementation of planned multinational operations in the current year, to which you are invited, but this cannot be an excuse to adopt today, as the National Assembly shall decide on the participation of members of the Army, paragraph 3. Serbia in multinational operations as well as an extension of its time of engagement and withdrawal from multinational operations on the basis of a adopted annual plan. You, as defence minister, are proposing Article 9 to the President of the Republic and he is making a practical decision on sending troops. You couldn't suggest anything to the President of the Republic this year because the annual plan wasn't adopted. Also, Article 10. The government decides on the basis of an annual plan, in accordance with the law on the participation of members of the interior ministry. Since the annual plan has not yet been adopted, the government has not been able to make any decision to refer to the interior ministry's forces. There's something completely different about this. I once said that the government acts as if the Serbian Parliament is its pendant, not to use another difficult term, such behaviour is simply an attack on the Parliament's dignity. I don't think that you, Mr. Minister, are guilty of this, but certainly this should be passed on to the prime minister and ensure that in future, as the budget for that year is adopted, or at the time of adoption of the budget or directly, while still this financial year is being passed in January, the Assembly is given an annual plan for the use of the Army and that the Assembly adopts it in time, so that both the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Defence can, under the law of its jurisdiction, work on sending forces to multinational missions. Here, gentlemen, no one has mentioned that there is a mission in front of Serbia that will soon, for 20 years, not have been carried out, in 1999 the NATO Pact forces created a quasi state of Kosovo with bombs on our territory. The war and the aggression ended with Resolution 1244, which stands -- that Serbia has the right to direct part of its forces to Kosovo and Metohija. It is known that up to 1,000 people, it would also be a humanitarian mission and a mission to confirm Serbia's sovereignty in that part of our territory. I know, Mr. Minister, that you cannot personally do anything about the talks you have with KFOR commanders because it is a political issue. I myself, twice following the Chief of Staff, was in negotiations with the KFOR commander. Both times the question has been asked and one lakomonic answer – I am not authorized to discuss this issue with you because it is a political issue. But the government, the foreign ministry is rightly competent to discuss these political issues as well. With a strong opportunity, I was present, and when these quasi entered our territory, let's say, multinational peace-preservation forces, so-called. KFOR. I, for a part of the force that came later, can say that he was doing humanitarian missions, but here's what one famous world analyst, geopolitical and humanist says about the first month of KFOR's behavior on KIM. He handled this in his book "New militarist humanism" -- top KFOR officers tolerated the first days of the murder of Serb civilians, nearly 2,000 of them because it was in a way necessary to free Albanian returnees from the frustrations they had when they left KIM. For this reason, the MPs of the SRS represent the part of the people who remember. We also remember in 2008, remember that KIM and their representatives in their minds did not declare independence in February. They got direct support and direct initiative to do so. If you look at only countries that are immediately, as early as February, recognised by KIM, you will see that they are NATO's pact countries, you will see that they are EU countries. And then you must understand what the position of the SRS is that our army cannot go on an EU mission. If someone says it's appreciated and the EU will appreciate it or Brussels, here's how it's appreciated through the pressures that are just being put on your government's representatives, it's all about KIM again. As far as humanitarian missions and peace protection missions are concerned, Serbia as a SRJ and Yugoslavia's Successor has had great experience before that, since the engagement of JNA forces at the Golan High School. It is absolutely not disputed that members of the Serbian Army will fulfil their role in any mission both their duty and their tasks in the right way. That's not controversial. But what we as Serbian radicals think is controversial, which is that an analysis must be carried out where and in what missions to send the Army of Serbia. Serbia must show that it has the dignity to remember, so I will now talk about each individual mission and the EU and the UN mission. For example, here you plan to be the first -- UN Peace Operation in the Republic of Côte d'Ivoire, where we have a military observer. We are absolutely against anyone from the Serbian Army heading there. The Côte d'Ivoire coast admitted KIM on 20 September 2011. She voted for Kosovo to be admitted to UNESCO. Whether it was pressure or not, an attempt to get Kosovo into UNESCO and take away what is most important from our history and our tradition for us, the tens of generations of Serbs, living and creating their country at KIM, to become a cultural heritage, so to speak. Kosovo. So any state that has decided to vote for Kosovo in UNESCO or which has recognised Kosovo, regardless of its situation, must know that Serbia will not direct its police forces or its military forces to such a state because of its dignity. The second operation is the UN Peace Operation in the Democratic Republic of Congo. This operation has been going on for a long time. At first, it was just a medical team to evacuate the airway, now we have two staff officers there. We absolutely support the engagement of Serbia's Army in the Democratic Republic of Congo, because in addition to the pressures it has had to recognise KIM, this country has not yielded and voted against Kosovo's admission to UNESCO. UN peacekeeping operation in the Republic of Cyprus. Serbia's army is participating in the operation. There are practically 47 members, there are five members of the MUP, two staff officers, two military observers, six patrol members, 37 members of the infantry. Also, Cyprus has not recognised Kosovo and Cyprus has voted against Kosovo's accession to UNESCO. Cyprus means it deserves Serbia to repay it by sending both observers and members of our army there for a long time. The next operation is the UN Operation in the Republic of Lebanon. There are 177 members, nine staff officers, five members, according to the ENP, or elements of national support. It's those members of our contingent who don't pay the UN. Then, 130 members of the company and 33 members of the water for the protection of forces. Lebanon did not recognise Kosovo and voted against Kosovo's admission to UNESCO. It is clear why the SRS supports sending our army to a peace operation in this country. The UN peacekeeping mission in the Middle East. This is also one, let me say, a neural point, there's only one of our military observers present. Given the attitude of the countries where this observation is being carried out and their relationship to the problem we have with KIM, we also believe that Serbia should direct the observer. UN peacekeeping operation in the Central African Republic. We will discuss this mission in the Assembly, because we have already received material for that session. However, there are scheduled to be 72 members, two staff officers, two military observers and 68 members of the Military Hospital, level 2. The position of the SRS is clear and unequivocal. We are opposed to our army, our doctors, heading for this mission after the Central African Republic recognised the state of Kosovo on 22 July 2011. She was abstained from voting for Kosovo's entry into UNESCO. The peace operation in, well, this still applies to only four members of the police, in Haiti, we are also against and we advocate that this operation is terminated because Haiti recognised Kosovo on 11 February 2012, and voted to see Kosovo into UNESCO. All countries that have decided to treat Serbia like this in the UN deserve to be answered in a dignified manner by Serbia for its dignity. After all, it's about our people, it's about our budget, and there are enough missions and enough countries to guide our forces. EU Security Forces training missions in Somalia, the head of the Sanitary Service and the medical team, one doctor and four technicians. We are opposed to our forces going to Somalia because Somalia recognised Kosovo on 19 May 2010, and voted for Kosovo's entry into UNESCO. Well, what else should one country do to Serbia, in order for Serbia to remember it and, as they say more diplomaticly, in a way that is appropriate in international law, responds that the country could in future respect Serbia? If we do this the way we do, well, no one in the world will respect us. The next EU mission, I say immediately, all EU missions, the position of the SRS is clear that none of our soldiers are referred to the EU missions. Of the 16 members, there are two staff officers in operational command, then one officer, and then in the operational command of the ship, another staff officer and an autonomous ship protection team. Someone has already said that the autonomous ship protection team is not on a humanitarian mission, but on a combat mission. So far, we've never approved of our army going on combat missions. We, after all, have not been so developed, to say, the merchant navy, especially on the seas, and I do not see at all the need to court Europe, to send a combat team on the first call from Europe and to risk the lives of our people, precisely because Somalia recognised Kosovo on 19 May 2010 and because it voted for Kosovo's entry into UNESCO. EU Security Forces Training Mission Mali, three members, one doctor, two medical technicians. The State of Mali has not recognised Kosovo, has voted abstentionally for Kosovo's admission to UNESCO, but it is unacceptable for our forces to be on a European mission. The EU military advisory mission in the Central African Republic, three members, a medical team, one doctor and two technicians. I have already told the Central African Republic that it has recognised Kosovo and Metohija and has been abstained from voting for Kosovo's entry into UNESCO. Now come these, let me say, missions where we are on the stand, that is, waiting for the EU's call. However, we also want you to know what the SRS' position is. The first mission on the stand, because it does not know how many people will be hired there, but it is said to be staff officers, military observers or a Sanitary team, since this is an undefined territory, and since there are near Algeria and Morocco, who have not recognised Kosovo and who voted against Kosovo's admission to UNESCO, if the UN would ask Serbia for a smaller force, let's say one or two staff officers, observers, Serbia, in the SRS, could respond to the mission.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5225	You're bringing the end of your colleague Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5226	15 minutes from the party.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5227	That's when we go on the list. I don't mind, but I can't extend your time on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5228	Okay, nothing, we'll keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5229	Thank you. The word has a minister, Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5230	I'm just one thing, Mr. Delicia, surprised, which, either you haven't read the annual usage plan or you've skipped the end, or you haven't figured something out. The annual plan of use, now the one that we delivered to you, the last paragraph, says - the participation of members of the Serbian Army, the Ministry of Interior in multinational operations, approved on the basis of an annual plan of military use and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2016, continues in 2017 in line with the mandate of multinational operations until the adoption of the annual plan for the use of the military and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2017. That's the answer to your serious criticism about why this wasn't in last year's plan, so if you read this, you could find it on the website last year. He says – the annual plan of use is adopted in the current year, the participation of members of the military, the Ministry of Interior in multinational operations approved on the basis of an annual plan for the use of the military and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2015 continues in 2016, in line with the mandate of multinational operations until the adoption of the annual plan for the use of the military and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2016, i.e. To this day. So, we don't have any problem with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5231	Legally on the line, MP, Bozidar Delic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5232	Mr. Minister, just one sentence. The Ministry of Defence's army is a highly organized state institution. That's not what I think, that's what every citizen thinks, and that's why the military enjoys a high reputation in society. But to tell Serbian citizens today that in November 2016 you adopt a 2016 plan, however you try to justify it, is very unserious. I ask that this never happen again and that the plan for each year is adopted either at the end of the calendar year or, at least, while that financial year is going on, and we know that, here in the Assembly, which we are adopting the budget, until when it lasts. You can try to explain this, but it's good that the Serbian citizens heard that on November 2, we are adopting an annual plan for 2016, and we should already start an analysis of the activities carried out in 2016.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5233	The word is made by Minister Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5234	Then read the use plan we're now adopting for next year and this year, so comment on this last paragraph.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5235	The word has a folk MP, Marija Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5236	Thank you, Chairman. Ministers with collaborators, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, today we are considering two very important decisions and wonders, what we could hear during the afternoon, this negative tone in the evaluations of these decision-making proposals or the situation relating to these decisions, because the topic we are talking about today is the subject of pride and honor, in fact, the whole of Serbia, in the first place of the representatives of the Ministry of Defence and the Army of Serbia. I'm sorry that you heard a negative tone today in the debate, not because someone banned it from talking about this, it's not about that. Consider members who defended the name of Serbia during the previous period, defended the image of the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army everywhere in the world, in difficult territories, in post-conflict areas, had very complicated tasks. The plan envisions 700 members, in 340 different positions, to go and continue to defend Serbia's name. Serbia's name not only in the classical military sense, to be part of a major international security system, but in the sense that we defend military education of members of the Serbian Army, to defend what our experience is, what are special abilities and commitment to work in the security sector. These are very important topics that were to be discussed today. It was necessary to highlight the results, the achievement of these people, to talk about how much we are both accepted and desirable partner in international peace missions and multinational missions. You didn't want to talk about it. All those who spoke negatively have found, and this will be agreed by people who know the sector, found crumbs in the corners of stories about the annual use of Serbia's Army in peace operations, multinational missions. It's crumbs and spins we don't need today. If we are talking about some military honor, that we need Serbia more than ever to have some solid pillars that we will be caught for and which will be national pride, then it is the Army of Serbia, not only within our borders, but also members of peace and multinational operations. There's no argument against what I've said. It could be a day-to-day political debate. We can talk about whether someone was a good minister or a bad minister, by someone's personal understanding. But here in parliament, if we are serious MPs and if we want to defend the reputations of the Serbian Army, and this is above the daily policy and above the political party, then we will speak exclusively with arguments. Then we can't say that Minister Gasic was the worst minister. You may not like his hairstyle, his walking style, but the figures say he is one of the most successful ministers in Serbia's military. I'll just repeat one more piece of information, and you deny me the numbers, because I want us to talk numbers. How are you going to explain that today and in previous years we've had a billion dinars of damage in Serbia's budget because Minister Sutanovac's been firing people like that, making such failures in his ministry, that every year, thanks to the need to pay compensation to people, we lose a billion dinars in Serbia's budget. Is this the contribution of the Democratic Party to better living Serbian citizens, by someone making mistakes that we must pay dearly today? We have to, because we are serious and responsible and we respect our obligations. Was Minister Gasic and the ministers who were at the post in the Serbian Army in the Ministry of Defence after Sutanovac, was their failure to fill the empty warehouses where the war material reserves were? That's the argument. That's what we need to talk about, when you find empty warehouses, no food, no basic equipment, no clothes, no shoes, no basic ammunition, without which we can't move on. I'm aware that the war's immediate threat does not threaten us at this time, but war material reserves are something we need to talk about. I can see the anxiety in the ranks of opposition parties, but that's because they don't know how to answer their arguments. It is likely to be prepared by some day-to-day political misunderstandings that are indeed, in the extreme, insulting people who are today following this parliament and people who are seriously involved in politics in Serbia. You have no argument as to why you left empty warehouses and you have no argument as to why we pay a billion dinars every year, because Minister Sutanovac mismanaged his ministry. Dot. We can talk about how important it is to be in... And now for commercials. I'm sorry the viewers can't hear what's being thrown. They should hear that the MPs of the Serbian Parliament are offended, especially if they belong to the Serbian Progressive Party, both MPs and the Radical Party and the Democratic Party at the moment are giving the worst insults to me, but you can't hear it. Let them have their cheeks and tell you what they said. It's okay, let those who have spoken now insults say. As far as my colleague from Enough is concerned, I have absolutely no objection to that. My colleague was very argumentative, with the grudges that were and how they demanded answers, and I have no objection. I don't know why now my colleagues from Enough have been reporting on the mention of these parties, unless they have a coalition agreement to defend each other. So back to this topic, a very important topic. I just want to say again, it hasn't been heard, here we are now in the third hour of debate, that we are actually talking about seven United Nations peacekeeping operations in which we have both been and seven new peace operations. About four EU multinational operations so far and two new multinational operations and a whole new activity – an engagement in humanitarian activity in case of need. So it's almost the same number where over 50% we increase our participation in multinational operations and peacekeeping missions. For what? Because someone wants representatives of the Serbian Army on their international team, because it's excellent staff staff, excellent medical staff, military observers who produce fantastic results on the ground that are a desirable player on the team. One of the colleagues did mention that women's participation in multinational operations is something that was assessed by the highest rating, and not by our people from the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army, it is indeed assessed by international experts and people who continue to call us and who evaluate our work and analyze the activities and achievements of members of the Serbian Army within these operations. I am witnessing that ambassadors of different countries, who, with me as chairman of the Defence and Home Affairs Committee, have regular contacts, regularly emphasise the importance of continuing participation of members of the Serbian Army in this kind of operation. This has led to a significant increase in the number of members in the following year. Also, Parliament Speaker Maja Gojkovic recently spoke in Cyprus and visited our mission and our members and assured herself on how well they live and work there and how pleased they are with their engagement and their achievements. When we talk about the participation of women in peacekeeping missions, I have just been interrupted by these insults, I want to tell you that international experts, particularly those dealing with security, point out that women in international peace missions are a significant factor that in conflicting, post-conflict areas significantly contributes to the implementation of the peace agreement, especially in working with the civilian population on the ground to achieve extraordinary results because it is very important that members of the peace missions succeed in establishing a healthy relationship with civilians, i.e. the domestic population, because this is the only way to implement the peace agreement. What else do our members of the peace operations do? One of our tasks is certainly to allow respect for human rights, to prevent human trafficking in these post-conflict areas, and somewhere still conflicting. We have an obligation to support disarmament, demobilization in those territories. It is our duty to support the security sector reforms in all these countries where our members are. It should not be forgotten that the participation of our members in the Serbian Army is a very important element of foreign policy. This is what we really remain, because we have been an active factor in preserving international peace and security. This confirms our own reputation, strengthens trust in Serbia's Army, strengthens our own defence capacities and national security. What we haven't talked about today is interoperability, it's something that's very important when we talk about the Serbian Army. Today trends and technical and technological and educational are very changing in the world at high speed. It is important that we be part of this system and that our members can truly show what we are doing and to reconcile levels of achievement, education, expertise, abilities with members of other countries in the world, especially these UN and EU peacekeeping missions. I'll look back on the negative comments one more time. You could have heard the MPs of the opposition demanding to stop our participation or to measure where we will be, and where we will not be part of international missions, it is nothing more than calling for isolation. Just a little nicer packed. We can't ask at this point, to get out of any international teams. Being part of an international family, either within the framework of foreign policy, within economic organisations, as part of security organisations, peace missions, should be an honor, means that you are a serious player on the team, that you are a desirable player on the team. It's very hard to deserve, it's done at different levels of the state, and I wouldn't agree so easily to just say that for one minor reason we're coming out of that big family that brings us big benefits at different levels. You know, when someone heads the country, they can't just think as president of their own party, just as a member of one party. People who are serious politicians, who want to be statesmen, who wish their country well often make decisions that are not good at the moment, perhaps for you personally as a politician or for the rating of your party, but a long-term and serious statesman making a decision that benefits his country and his people. That's why Alexander Vukic is a statesman, and the rest of them are party presidents. Thank you. (Goran Ciric, from the place: Replica, to mention the party. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5237	Wait, Mr. Kiric, we've got first injuries to the Rules of Procedure. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go. You know the breach of the Rules of Procedure has priority over replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5238	I'm speaking under Article 27 concerning Article 106. Mr. Arsic, I sat half a foot away from you and you couldn't hear anything more than I heard. No one insulted Mrs. Marija Obradovic, it is from the ranks, or from the MPs of the SRS during her debate obtained – and now commercials. Really, I don't see what it is, what she's been experiencing as an insult, especially if she wanted to present to the public how it is, she, God forbid, I don't know how offended she is, I guess the public would forget that she called us radicals monkeys. So, Mr. Arsic, you should have reacted and said that it is not true that someone offended Mrs. Marija Obradovic, at least not from the ranks of the SRS and should know that we are the SRS, I know that it is difficult for her to say Serbian, but what to do to her, we really are. I'm a graduate lawyer by profession, and I really don't see how anyone in this room could insult me to say something when I say it, to say something, and now a verdict, and now in the name of the people, and now I'm making a conclusion, and I don't see why it's an insult to the former speaker, and now it's advertising. Speakers do say that on shows on a regular basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5239	My colleague Radeta, I have heard as well as you that one of the MPs of the SRS has said – and now the advertisement. However, Article 106 states in paragraph 3. - during the speech of MPs or other participants in the search is not allowed to throw, any throw, and then interfere with speakers in other ways as well as any other procedure that threatens freedom of speech. Now, if you're asking me to react that, in the sense of a colleague, Maria Obradovic is back on the agenda, then I would have to, before I act in accordance with Article 109. The Rules of Procedure, and I really don't want it, and every one of us has the right to also consider what an insult is to him. It would have been a problem if I had said a warning, and I allowed my colleague Obradovic to respond to one throw then I would have certainly violated the Rules of Procedure and certain rules. Now according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5240	Mr. Arsic, article 107 has been injured. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. First of all, Ms. Marija Obradovic is no speaker, but a folk MP, namely the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the chairman of the Defence and Home Affairs Committee. As Mr Delic spoke, Mrs. Marija Obradovic did not interrupt him in any way, nor in any way tried to deconcentrate him despite the fact that we disagreed with the good part of what Mr. Delic said, but we did not throw anyone away, we did not insult anyone, and we did not glue any labels to anyone that she was a speaker, that this or that was it. That's one thing. The other thing here is that there is obviously a non-principle coalition of parties that have nothing in common but the use of every possible opportunity to strike on the SNS parliamentary group. We respect every member of Parliament, we respect everyone who has entered this House. As you saw we did not throw anyone away while he was expressing his views, but we will not allow Maria Obradovic or any MP from the SNS parliamentary group to be insulted on a personal basis. It's an insult on a personal basis.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5241	Time, fellow Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5242	So, if anyone in their life was doing this job or that job, doing honest work, doing work for pay, and now we're all MPs, and those who earn that time, their time has passed. So, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is a place for 250 MPs regardless of what they are by profession, what they are by profession and what they have done in life. We are all equal and obliged to respect the Rules of Procedure here.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5243	I thank my colleague Martinovic. We fully agree with my colleague Martinovic because I did not respond that any interest that makes a fair wage cannot be an insult. Do you want the National Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? (No) According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5244	Mr. Arsic, no one, at least we Serbian radicals, think there should be a camera atmosphere in this room. We know and it's normal to throw, and we've never reacted when someone's throwing it at us. It's done on a regular basis, and I don't want to call anyone who's been throwing all day here, etc., and I don't want to push any more replicas. But this intervention of mine in the Rules of Procedure has been tried completely to reverse the essence of what I said. So we don't mind someone throwing, and we're not running away from throwing something at someone, too. It's perfectly normal in parliament. Did any of us ever intervene when you threw it at us? No, I don't. We're serious politicians, always focused on what we're saying, and throwing us can't bother and shouldn't bother anyone. That's what was said in this article 106 in the last position you were referring to. This is about, Mr Arsic, that Mrs. Marija Obradovic, on the spot, made up that she was being rudely insulted by the SRS MPs. Saying in the course of someone's debate -- and now the commercial, and we don't argue that it's said, is really no offense. In that sense, it was my intervention, that you shouldn't have interrupted her, you shouldn't have told her not to throw it away. I don't know why you thought and tried to say I asked. You should've just said - Mrs. Obradovic, we don't hear anyone insulting you here, because no one was rudely insulting her. That's the essence of my reporting to the Rules of Procedure. I have at least 20 more seconds, if you've moved this time...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5245	You're bringing the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5246	... Two and a half minutes ago, a colleague of Arsic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5247	Thank you. I'd like to finally finish this part. (Goran Ciric, from the place: Replica. ) Wait for my colleague Kiric, slowly, slowly. Mr. Kiriq, you've been a long MP and you know well that I cannot give you my word until the application for a word for injury to the Rules of Procedure is completed. And you know very well, Mr. Kiric, that every violation of the Rules of Procedure I have to answer and ask the MP if he wants the National Assembly on the injury of the Rules of Procedure, which he has advertised, to be declared in the day of the vote. So stop trying to be a threat to you. No one's threatening you, wait your turn. As far as pitching is concerned, it's true, colleague Radeta, and I throw myself away some time when I sit amongst MPs and I respond to the passing of MPs. You said what one of your MPs said, we're not going to mention a name. So let's finish this story and get on with our work. Here, let the citizens judge whether it's an insult, it's not, whether it's supposed to be like this or not. Again according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Miljan Damjanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5248	Mr. Arsic, I thank you, but right now, when you speak for the people, the member, both 106 and 107, but here's Article 106(1). - The speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. Here's why, Mr. Arsic. I understand that the same speaker, since he was engaged in some previous actions, ministers and all others, the party that was not in power now and was not the subject of the agenda, I understand that the previous speaker, or the one who was false, said the following thing, that he regretted and protected the MPs because the defence minister did not answer any questions and criticism from the MP General Bozidar Delic. That's the point. Nineteen and a half minutes before the end of that plan, which you spoke of in the last paragraph, we, Miss Marija Obradovic, were all the time, all the time about all possible peace missions.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5249	Mr Damjanovic, you have no right to harm the Rules of Procedure. (Miljan Damjanovic, from the place: How am I not entitled? You have no right, I'll explain now. The application for a word after the infringement of the Rules of Procedure refers to a directly committed breach of the Rules of Procedure. In the meantime, you should have done so when the minister finished and before I gave my word to my colleague Obradovic. The moment I gave my word to my colleague Obradovic, you lost the right to advertise the Rules of Procedure on that basis. (Miljan Damjanovic, from the post: I immediately signed up. The secretary told me, yes, yes, you will get the word. He didn't tell you anything, and I followed what's going on on the monitor. The moment I gave my word to my colleague Obradovic, there was no identification for the word, it was not safe. The minister, as far as his answer is concerned, can give it, not during the debate. That's his assessment. Are there any other injuries to the Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5250	Thank you. Just a moment ago, and now after this advertising on the violation of the Rules of Procedure that we have heard, again, Article 103, paragraphs 7 and 8. There is one measure that says that when this Rules of Procedure is abused, and this has happened at least twice in a row now, if not the whole three, there is a measure that says that this time is being taken away from the parliamentary group. I think this is a good time to think about applying that measure. There have been several more opportunities today for us to perhaps intervene in this way, and in some MP groups, and on the other hand, this has happened, but since this is already becoming a kind of epidemic, it might be good to react in time, so that we can preserve the dignity of this home, because some things understand only when they feel them in their minutes. It's clear to everyone here that some of them came here today to have some fun. But if he can't do it another way, he can cost them time. Announcing some unprincipled coalitions at the will and right of everyone, but this is done at a press conference or in joint protests, such as how it was on that stage in front of the RIK. We don't have to vote, maybe just put a finger on our head and start doing these things right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5251	Since you don't want us to vote, I'm not obliged to give you an answer either. Once again according to the Rules of Procedure, the word has been given by the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5252	I think it's really inadmissible, we don't mind, the first position of Article 107, the first attitude exclusively. So, we don't mind the Members of Parliament giving their opinion that they're saying I don't know what to say or what to say, let's say, whatever they think of, or say. Everyone has the right as a People's Messenger to say the way he thinks he's presenting what he wants to present, but it's really unforgivable that you don't react. Now someone says we're abusers, we need to take time and so on. It's his sighting. You, as chairman, judge it, sometimes right, sometimes wrong. Simply, use what the Rules of Procedure allows you and we are not talking about it right now. But to say that there's someone here, and there's a debate about something that I said, that someone came here to have fun, is really an insult like I guess they never heard in this room. It's just... It's inadmissible. People, you are a force, but you have to put that force a little bit into some areas of decency, because it will pass the time of power. Everyone's gone, they'll get through this. Well, you'd be uncomfortable if someone were to suit you in the same way. Of course, we will never respond in this way because we Serbian radicals respect democratic principles, respect the will of citizens and never say that some MP here, as you said, was brought here to act as a monkey or to entertain himself. We are all here to represent the views of our political parties on behalf of the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5253	My colleague Radet, I can't understand why you thought you were called by fellow Orlic, didn't mention you once. (The Faith of Radeta, from the place: because he talked about me, about what I was saying.) ( ) Do you want the National Assembly to declare itself in the day of the vote? (The Faith of Radeta, from the place: Of course.) All right. The word has been made by the People's Messenger George Komlenski, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. If it continues like this, I will be forced to set a break in accordance with Article 112.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5254	Thank you, Chairman. I have long waited to advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 103, paragraph 4, which says - the MP is obliged to indicate which member of the Rules of Procedure is injured by the actions of the President of the National Assembly and to explain what the injury is, with a maximum of two minutes. It was only in the third statement of the Rules of Procedure that the distinguished colleague, Vera Radet, called for a member of the Rules of Procedure. I can understand that we MPs can forget about ourselves and miss out on a member of the Rules of Procedure to which we are calling and by which we advertise the injury, but you as chairman is right here to draw attention to us that such failures should not happen. Therefore, you were obliged to ask your colleague to state by which member of the Rules of Procedure she discusses.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5255	My fellow MPs, don't do my job, there's no need. Radeta's colleague advertised at one point 27, article 106, 107, was, 116, so each time she pleaded on the injury of the Rules of Procedure. A colleague of Orlic's, too, a colleague of Martinovic's, so I don't think there have been any in either. Now, to mention the political party, the word has been made by MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5256	I was patient to wait two or three hours, after five or six opportunities for replication and the mention of DS and the president of DS...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5257	I'm sorry, colleague Kiric. You can't get the right to a replica. Only your authorised representative can do that. (Radoslav Milojic, from the site: I am not in the system. The fact that you're not in the system, you're in the O.R. Mr. Ciric, there can't be a single political party, nor a parliamentary group that has two powers. Now I'm going to read you article 39. – During the meeting of the National Assembly, the president of the parliamentary group may authorise one member to represent a parliamentary group for a certain item of the agenda, which shall be notified in writing by the President of the National Assembly until the hearing is opened on that item of the agenda. Article 2 – The authorised representative shall assume the powers of the president of the parliamentary group. Since he's not here right now, ask for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5258	I really think that everyone here is talking about an extremely important topic and this atmosphere is so insecure that one of these institutions and the public of Serbia doesn't deserve such an atmosphere. Not only you, but also the previous chairman, not giving them the opportunity to respond to their parliamentary right, which is also the replica and advertising of the Rules of Procedure, you create an atmosphere that is not necessary. I think we'd be much more mature about all this. I'll make a contribution and I'll try to say something in these minutes and a half that reminds all of us. Four and a half years ago, as defence minister, current Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic told all of us that the Serbian Army is the most ordered system to succeed at that time, which was inherited by the government of the Republic of Serbia. He inherited the system exactly from Minister Sutanovec, who was mentioned several times and I don't understand why he's so nervous. I think it would be good for us all to be proud of this very continuity and a successful system like the Serbian Army. Who's telling the truth right now? At that time, did Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, as defence minister, speak the truth, praising the Serbian Army and his predecessor, Minister Sutanovac, or is that said by current MPs who criticise the situation in the Serbian Army? What else is something clearly visible here from the appearance of other MPs? It is an attempt to enter private life and the most frequently mentioned Dragan Sutanovac when there are no more arguments. We've seen that in the past four years. As president of the DS, he's been accused of a lot of things. Two days ago, he got a release sentence. There are no more reasons for that kind of accusation. Now let's find something else.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5259	The word is made by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5260	Article 27, Mr. Arsic. I beg you most kindly, look what's going on. So this is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. What DS is doing is the most brutal treading of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. So yesterday, Mr. Mircic said that the right to replica has the president of the parliamentary group. He thus interpreted the Rules of Procedure and it is his right. The chairman told him that the right had an authorised representative, and that's true, and you did it again today. What the DS is doing today, now a small Ciric is an authorised representative, is now little Kena. Is that how we're all gonna do it now? Are we going to leave the hall every five minutes for the moment, so that today I have, not Maria Obradovic, but 50 MPs from the SNS parliamentary group and each of them will be an authorised representative, because I will say to each of them – now you go out or I will go out and you will have 50 authorised representatives of the SNS Group today. Here are the three DS MPs, and now three DS MPs, should most brutally undermine the dignity of the National Assembly and play with all of us when we discuss the participation of the Serbian Army in UN-led peacekeeping operations, under the same flag under which we protect the sovereignty and independence of the Republic of Serbia in KIM. Who's supposed to laugh in our face? Goran Ciric, who bought an apartment in Takovska Street of 220,000 euros after a month of management in Post office. From the salary? Kena, Veroljub Stevanović. So, I ask you, Mr. Arsic, that technology, thieving and criminal, we can also apply that today you have 50, 60, 70 SNS MPs who will be authorized at any moment and that no one here can get the word because an authorised representative has the advantage. Don't let that happen. They either have an authorised representative or they don't. The three of them can't be changed every five minutes as authorised representatives.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5261	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. I agree with you, but I can't ban MPs from running and running out of the gym, I really can't, but seeing as the monitor is full, in accordance with Article 112. Rules of Procedure, I'm setting a five-minute break.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5262	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, we move on with our work. (Goran Ćirić, from the post: Rules of Procedure. ) The word has a People's MP, Diana Vukomanovic. Since we have injuries to the Rules of Procedure, a representative of the DS who doesn't want us to move forward with our work, I'm setting a five-minute break. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we move on with our work. The word has been made by MP Diana Vukomanovic. (Goran Ćirić, from the post: Rules of Procedure. ) Mr. Ciric, I couldn't break the Rules of Procedure at any time, because I just gave my word to my colleague Vukomanovic. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5264	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, respected representatives of the Serbian Ministry of Defence, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I also join most of the MPs today who have advocated sending members of Serbia's military to the UN and EU peacekeeping missions. No one mentioned today, but news was released yesterday that UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon has replaced the UN UN UNMISS's top peacekeeping mission in South Sudan. The UN report explained the following -- a lack of leadership due to a chaotic and inefficient response to the violence that took place in July by the incursion of South Sudanese soldiers in a UN-protected camp. It's a word of 27 thousand people. When you read these reports, and our soldiers are members of the Serbian Army who have the honour, but also a great responsibility to participate in peacekeeping missions, you see how complex the situation on the ground is. There are different security risks and not only for blue helmets but also for the population. That is why it is extremely important that our members of the Serbian Army go on peacekeeping missions. Security risks changed in the 21st century. You know, that wars are now being fought both by conventional and unconventional means, that different climate change is also security risks, various infectious diseases that are almost symptomatic for these regions where members of the Serbian Army are going on missions. In 30 years, during the former Yugoslavia's JNA, I found information that about 18 000 former JNA members participated in peacekeeping missions, and in the period since 2002, up to now about 1,900 Serbian military members participated in peacekeeping missions. The number mentioned today and which the minister mentioned was about 700 plus a certain number, about 18 members of the MUP. Our colleagues have already mentioned why it is important that both members of the Army of Serbia and the MUP go on peacekeeping missions, it is raising the level of exercise, interoperability, co-operation with members of the armed forces from other countries, from other continents to build up this valuable experience which is and how important the armies of Serbia. They are returning to the ranks of the Serbian Army and can spread that knowledge acquired on the ground. The key point when it comes to defence, when it comes to military, is willingness, preparedness, to be prepared for all kinds of possible challenges that are symptomatic of the 21st century. I've already mentioned that term now used in military analysis of preparedness, defence and military action, it's so-called. hybrid war. So there are more and more unconventional methods of warfare, that also different forms of engagement are not only military forces, but also the civilian population that is also the victim, but also that in different ways contributes, so to speak, to the complications of the situation. But at the same time, what our soldiers are stressing is, and this is seen by the involvement of medical personnel, it is a accumulated knowledge that is truly appreciated in regional and international frameworks, where our doctors make a great contribution to reacting on the ground and helping the civilian population. I would point out that Serbia ranks in the first 10 European countries that contribute to peacekeeping missions and we are the first in the Western Balkans. Also, according to some data, I have at least looked at the data of the International Institute for Security Studies, we very little stand out for defense and we need to be aware of how important this exercise is to us members of our military and medical and other staff, police personnel, who will be acquired in the field, because when you look at at at least all other countries, 0.99% of the Balkan country, meaning in which we are being classified, separate from other European countries, it will be a significant experience that we do not pay only with our own money. That's why I'm sending our soldiers on a peace mission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5265	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5266	Just for public information. So the risk assessment of dangers and threats is done every day. We're getting reports from the Ministry and in the event of a threat, and we're ready to evacuate our members. That's what the people need to know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5267	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5268	The technical error in the application for discussion was written that I was against these decisions. Of course, it's just a technical mistake and the New Party and myself personally, we support these activities of the participation of our army, members of our army in peacekeeping missions and humanitarian missions everywhere in the world. Our army knows it's working and has experience from the beginning of the second half of last millennium. There are, unfortunately, a lot of people who have participated in real war conflicts, and now they're still members of the military, and if that's all happened, then it's good to use it now for one purpose that has its own international character, whose goal is very human and which should lead to many people in the world having less suffering than they would have if they weren't peace forces, including those peace forces and members of our army. So in 2003, I renewed the talks on the involvement of our military and police in UN-led peacekeeping operations. Then it was heresy, and it was attacked by various political sides. I'm glad that many of those who attacked that initiative at the time are now on the side of the project. I think it's good for Serbia in general. The technical mistakes you're trying to explain as technical, that it's now being adopted for 2016 and now we're on November 2nd, that it's meant by the last paragraph that it's true for 2017, I don't think you need it. I think it's a good idea that the lawyers, not you, are not you or the gentlemen of the officers or you ministers to blame for that, but that the lawyers find some form to adopt a plan to hire members of our army for next year eventually by the end of January of next year, and it would be good to have it by the end of this year. You know what operations are under way, you know what until when they last, you know how much our participation is possible. I think it needs to be fixed so it doesn't open up discussions that are justified on the subject that, in fact, by adopting these two decisions now, we're convaluting something that's already happened. I think it's supposed to be done better and I don't doubt good intentions, to be clear here. The army is often a subject of pathetic, sad or overly cheerful stories. It's an insult to officers and members of the army. The officers know their jobs, and they don't need neither the geese nor the folk singers, nor the real programs to lift their significance and their place. An army is necessary for every country. I object to the reintroduction of regular service. I don't think there's any need, but for whether or not it's necessary, it's not just money, but whether we need it, whether the country's security check is to assess whether we need it or not. Well, if we need to see what's up with the money on the subject. Two questions that may not be directly related, but I'm going to ask them out of my best intentions. The first is - what is your opinion on the security of Serbian Prime Minister, your service? It's more natural, more globally, in many places in the world, most of it is police and civil security. I'm just interested in your opinion on the subject. There's one more thing, and that's because I've been in parliament for a really long time, and if I can assume, the power of prediction or it's coming to me that after my discussion, there's going to be some thugs who are going to ask -- and how can I talk about this topic when I didn't serve the military, so I'm using your presence today, since it's easy to verify, in five minutes, or in a short time, in the next few days, let the National Assembly know the reasons for me and if I've served the army and if I haven't served the army, when it's legal procedure, which is to be presented.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5269	Mr. Zivkovic, the minister can't do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5270	Finally only in the end, I return to the topic, I want all members of the army to do their job with honor and integrity as the Serbian army should do. On the other hand, around these bastards, let me just say that I'm using a term that's been defined by the law since 5 April 1886... .
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5271	A colleague of Zivkovic's... The word is made by Minister Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5272	As far as multinational operations are concerned, what you've been saying, exactly one of the laws that goes, changes and additions, is precisely the reason that in that amendment, it is not in the plan of preparation in the last paragraph that it is legally determined. As far as the Prime Minister's security is concerned, the Law on the Army of Article 53(1) of the Law on VBA and VOA Article 6, the Government Regulation and the decision of the Bureau have given an order to the Serbian and VBA military, we are prepared to respond.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5273	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5274	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as someone who served as a regular military service for 15 months, 200 days training in Karlovac, the rest of Bihac, so I hope I'm qualified as my fellow farmer to speak on this subject. Right at the beginning of the day, the geese were mentioned here. My fellow farmer is against the pirates, but he greatly appreciated Zoran Djindjic. Let's talk about the guslas, that famous 90's expedition, on which they're loathsome, in Republika Srpska, it was some multinational operation, please let the camera show it. (Employer showing pictures. ) Here are the geese, this is Radovan Karadzic, this is Luka Karadzic, and this is between Zoran Djindjic. Also, I have to say, since they're disgusting in the '90s, that I'm a leader, I don't know who their party's president is today, but a duchess, who until recently was a representative, met in the units of the Duke of Parosky, on the 17th ramp with a rash on Tissa. So I also believe that some should be introduced to multinational operations, so if anyone says, to remind him of 1978, in 1978, I was in the army. Someone of my generation, my fellow farmer is not, and I don't want to talk about it, but I have unequivocal proof that the army has not served. It is not proof that he served the army, but rather, but that the Serbian state has always appreciated the army. The Serbian state rested on the tripod, the people, especially the one from the village, the army and the church. I see the church not only as a religious element, but as a spiritual inspiration for wars to be defended, to be just. The village and people loved the army and loved the church. In 2000, thanks to these clusters that successfully occupied half of France's borders, the military, as well as the state, shared the fate of the state. The country was destroyed, the army was destroyed, the state built a house of bare walls and their president, the former regime's party, I don't know, until today or yesterday's, or I don't know who's there, and he built his military experience by lifting the ramp in front of a JUL's directorate, and later he moved on to the successful disarmament of our army, so from 1,000 tanks to 300, we burned the boats, but the pastures were successfully occupied, apartments on Vrakar, "pent house", and God also multinational abroad, all the way to Maldive, Vienna, etc. I support the fact that we're going to be calming others, better to do this than to have us divided here in the Balkans, some other peace we've had so far. Also, I must say that I am disappointed with the multinational forces at KIM, especially in the first years, because they have allowed the disappearance of several thousand Serbs and allowed their living organs to be removed, to be traded by organs, etc. I ask our soldiers not to allow it at any cost. As for the dangers, 150 people die annually in this country on Ibarska masteral. I think it's less challenging to participate in these multinational forces, and we can collect more knowledge and benefits than to drive to the Ibaric Master's Department during that period. I'm afraid more people would lose in traffic than we will, God forbid, lose in multinational forces. I believe in our army, I believe it will recover as the state recovers, that we will have more and more equipment. I advocate serving a military deadline or training the civilian population in the nearest barracks, where we have reserves, that we can respond to every security challenge and I will conclude with my right that KIM considers the territory over which an expropriation was made for the wild construction of the Kosovo state and it is not a state, it is a NATO base and will be a state as long as the NATO base is there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5275	Thank you. Now, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I set a break of one hour. We'll be back to work at 3:00. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we move on with our work. The word has the People's MP Bozidar Delic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5277	Thank you. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must at first say that in my earlier address, I have addressed only the defence minister, because the defence minister here today is presenting, explaining, or defending, the annual plan for the use of the Serbian Army in multinational operations. The fact that some gentlemen don't like that the SRS has the attitude it has, that's their problem, but our attitude is crystal clear and unequivocal and I'm taking it out and I'm going to take it further, as any radical would normally do. But what I heard later, because Mr. Minister remembers, both on the Defence and Security Committee, I voted against the annual plan. I voted against the annual plan because the annual plan is such a document. So, adopting the annual voting plan is practically for all missions. We would only vote for individual missions. The Serbian Radical Party certainly doesn't think Serbia should be an isolated island, but we heard one sentence here today – we can go with everyone. The attitude of the SRS is – we radicals can't go with everyone. We can only go with those who respect our people and our country. And, I heard another disastrous one, let me say, a simple sentence, and it was referring to the SRS' position, that because radicals have the view that those who have recognised Kosovo and those who voted for Kosovo in UNESCO, for this minor reason we cannot suspend missions, etc. Well, gentlemen, let the people hear that Kosovo and Metohija are for some gentleman who sits here for a minor reason. For Serbian Radicals and for all those who support us, Kosovo and Metohija is one of the most important issues and the most important problem Serbia has today. Mr. Minister, when I said this plan was to be adopted at the end of last year or in January of the month, you called for me not to read the annual plan for last year. I read it, I had it with me, and now I will repeat what you have quoted – members of the Serbian Army and the Ministry of Interior, which will be sent to multinational operations during 2015, in accordance with the mandate of multinational operations, continue engagement and in the coming year, until the adoption of the annual plan for the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2016. It's okay. Those on missions until the end, not the mission's mandate, but their six-month engagement in the case of soldiers, annual engagements in the case of members of the MUP, and only one mission, this is the ship's security mission said to last about four months. According to this plan, it could have been done, but neither rotation could have been done on the basis of that last position in that document. Besides, you're on the 2016 plan this year, this is also, let's say, the last point, you wrote it differently. As you wrote it this year, it might be what you interpreted, but it's absolutely not normal to bring an annual plan at the end of the year, and it's called an annual plan. If only it had been called a plan to refer the Serbian Army to multinational operations, it could have passed, but the law said it was an annual plan. We're wasting time in this debate, it's absolutely unnecessary. I'm just saying that you're making sure, say, for next year, that it is still being delivered at some time acceptable to the Assembly and that the Assembly is discussing it. I'm continuing to be associated with operations that support, which is not supported by the SRS. UN peacekeeping operations in the Republic of Mali, as this is also an operation on a stand-by arrangement, are known to be wanted by staff officers, military observers or a sanitary team, will be decided later. Since the Republic of Mali has not recognised Kosovo and has been abstained from voting for UNESCO, we believe that if it were some limited force due to financial resources, it could be acceptable. As for the UN peacekeeping operation in Jama and Kashmir, India is a friendly country. India has not recognised Kosovo and voted against Kosovo's admission to UNESCO. It's a huge, big country and our friend. On the other hand, the problem that exists in the province is with Pakistan. It is a state that recognised Kosovo on 24 December 2012 and voted for Kosovo in UNESCO. It's absolutely necessary to take care of that, if you get a call for a mission like this, that with that mission, you don't, say, disrupt the friendly relations we have with India. UN peacekeeping operation in South Sudan. South Sudan has not recognised Kosovo, it voted against Kosovo in UNESCO. It has thus shown that it values Serbia and, again, if financial opportunities are allowed and if a limited number of people are asked of Serbia, we have no objection to sending our team to such a friendly country. UN peacekeeping operation in Sudan. On the contrary, although this is a stand-by arrangement, although Sudan has not recognised Kosovo, it voted for Kosovo's entry into UNESCO. The first mission was in Namibia, and the second mission in Sudan is in UNIFA. We also have the same view that we should not direct our forces to this peace mission. The stand-by arrangement also includes a UN peacekeeping operation in the Middle East. We have an observer there for now, and we agree that the observer there is doing his job. However, if the UN calls on the forces of the Serbian Army or the interior ministry for this UNDOF mission, it depends primarily on how much it would cost our country and how many people it would take. On this basis, it would be decided, given that the capacities already employed by the Serbian military are, in the opinion of the SRS, the upper limit for both people and financial resources. If we were to ask ourselves, we would neither allow more resources to be spent nor more people to be referred to. The EU Training Mission in the Central African Republic, too, first because it is an EU mission, is absolutely against it. I have already stressed in a previous report that the Central African Republic has recognised Kosovo, thus placing practically on the side of those who want to take away a sovereign part of our territory, and voted abstentionly for Kosovo's admission to UNESCO. And a military operation of the EU naval forces in the Mediterranean. We're absolutely against it, although we don't know, it's about staff officers who would be in the operational command of a mission in Rome and staff officers like that and this mission, who would be aboard a ship of command forces. We are opposed to our forces and our soldiers being directed to this mission, because it is also an EU mission. So many gentlemen, whether anyone likes it or not. These are the views of the SRS on missions directed by the Serbian Army and its members. As you can see, we do not want Serbia to be a closed or desert island, but we want to show that we know who our friends are, that we have dignity and that precisely because of what we need to hear, as every man keeps his dignity, we must also safeguard his country's dignity and simply tell everyone in the EU and especially in the UN, which missions are acceptable to us. We choose where our army will go. This is being decided by the Assembly, and these tasks are being realised by the government through the defence minister and the interior minister. Is there anything unclear here, gentlemen? No matter what anyone may report again, I think that the citizens of Serbia, from what I said, were able to crystal clear about the SRS' views on this matter. And, the SRS will vote against the annual plan, precisely because the annual plan gave a comprehensive participation of the Serbia-MUP military in the 2016 missions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5278	Thank you. The word is made by MP Goran Bogdanovic. Mr. Bogdanovic isn't here. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5279	To the explicit view of the SRS that we are against any involvement or sending members of the military or the police to missions under direct control of the EU, the minister gave us the reason that this is a policy led by the leadership of this country and that the military, or a resolute ministry, must fit into that policy. Perhaps this explanation would be more convincing if more than once that policy had not changed and political attitudes over the past period. We remember only when there was a question of vital importance for Serbia, the question of KIM that official policy representatives clearly pointed out their position, that with countries that have recognised Kosovo as an independent republic, we need to consider what kind of relations we will have, and as Chief Commander of the Army, not a small number of times, the president of the state said that we should also consider sending military missions and representatives of military and police forces. We also heard here a rather inconclusive argument, why this annual plan is being considered at the end of the year, in November of the month. With the explanation that we have repeatedly listened to for different drafts of plans, that is, the law, that could not have happened at the beginning of the year, because there were elections. Well, gentlemen, aren't you a little lost in that calendar? There have been enough months in the calendar, and especially days, to consider not only laws but these plans until the election is called. It is the easiest way to justify or seek justification, there were elections, temporary government, in technical terms, and there was nothing we could do, but until that moment, parliament was also functioning, the government functioned, and these plans are something that in any case mostly routines. Why do we Serbian radicals exclude any possibility of participation of members of the military and security forces in EU-controlled missions? Well, because the EU is an extended arm of the NATO Pact, and we here have an explanation that we have heard and the EU is a member of the UN. It may be, but we radicals are not so well informed, there is no collective admission to UN membership, are individual EU members, UN members, but it is not the EU. The European Union is an integral part of the NATO Pact, and it falls under NATO's control. Any involvement of military and police officials implies that NATO's command is executed there. With relations with the NATO Pact, we know exactly what they are leading to and what they bring to Serbia. We are not surprised, gentlemen, with this attitude of this new calling. It dates back to 2000. The collapse of the entire defence system, if it can be said, quickly began after "Buldozer, a five-octobar revolution", when foreign ambassadors, above all, ambassador of the United States, determined who would be military minister. Well, there was one true event when it was determined who would be the new Prime Minister after the murder of Zoran Djindjic, then US Ambassador Mongomeri, said -- I don't care, you can lead whatever fool you want to lead the government, but the military minister must be Boris Tadic. That's when the literal collapse of both the military and the defense of this country begins. Let's remember, let's not forget those images that were presented to us on small screens, when US Ambassador Mongomer attends the destruction of Serbia's military, or then Yugoslavia, and says Boris Tadic, the then minister, we profited here, for every arrow, give us $10,000. The price of the arrow is much higher, or $100,000, I think it's $100,000, I apologize, but what it meant to Boris Tadic, he had a mission to literally destroy everything. Everything about the military and he started doing the job himself. He was later rewarded by becoming president of the state, and his place was brought even worse. For you can never, when it comes to such shifts, say, has come better. He came up. The worse one began to explain that there was no point in introducing mandatory military service, that the military could function, that he was as the manager of the minister's office trying to get the military out of the crisis. And, to the shame of all of us, and especially members of the Army, we are witnessing that those who finished high school, high school, invested all their efforts and knowledge in order to reach one level of professionalism and their professionalism, the maltenes came to the beggar stick, while the minister in question was showing expensive watches. It's the reality of Serbia. When you honor us with Serbian radicals that we are leading an illusionist policy, by saying that we will not be with the EU, and you claim, as EU candidates, that Europe will welcome and we may be able to join the EU faster, I guess that is the essence of this whole propaganda. You are losing sight, gentlemen, that in 2003, a request was made to the army general that members of the army, then members of the unit military, participate in a mission in Afghanistan, where the idea was explained that the Americans would be glad that Serb soldiers participated in more Afghanistan, which would be cannon meat. There were all kinds of ideas. But we are witnesses, time and events have confirmed that we Serbian radicals are mostly right when we claim -- there is no co-operation with those who have recognised the republic of Kosovo, no sending members of the Army and security forces under NATO's command. That, in advance, can count, is bad for Serbia. This isn't some big Corps, it's not a large corps, so we can talk like this, but we can make it clear symbolically that we don't want to participate in EU missions where our high-ranking officers or high-ranking military representative would oversee the Mediterranean migrant crisis, and this same Europe is not moving with a finger, nor is it interested in this number of migrants in Serbia. Now, a logical question is being asked – can we continue to blindly follow this policy, the policy of neutrality, how do you advocate? In a world that's more and more polarized, in a world where America is no longer the greatest and only force, we can't sit on two chairs, we can't sit on one side and the other. It may have been a good scam when it was said to have a house with two doors, but in such a house there is always a leak. We are now symbolically as the state came into situations that we have to define ourselves, not to sit on the promo anymore and not to be in two chairs anymore, because we're getting away with each other. We have to have co-operation. Co-operation with the NATO Pact is not good, not because it is the political stance of us Serbian radicals, but because NATO is a criminal organisation and their goal is to destroy Serbia. We must look on the other side of the Allies. What's the solution? The solution is to become a member of the ODKB. It's an alliance whose head, first of all, is the Russian Federation. We need an army of technical, financial, technological and personnel to strengthen. We can't do that with the Americans, we can't do that with NATO. Why can't we? Here's another logic. Well, here we are, the other day, all of us are witnesses that the senior representatives of American politics, and the Gods and representatives of NATO, stand at the view that an army should be formed in Kosovo. Kosovo should have an army, as they explain, the moment is that Kosovo only takes care of its security. On the other hand, their emissaries, their instructors bomb us in Serbia, as in Serbia and this number of soldiers should be reduced, because there is no need in Serbia, where we have not yet defined the borders of the state, there is no need for us to have an army. In Serbia, where, according to Resolution 1244, we have the right to send the army to the border area towards Macedonia and Montenegro, we need to reduce the number of soldiers, and Kosovo, the quasi state, should form its own army. Where's the logic? Where's common sense? Should we still be so blind in the eyes that we say -- good intentions are Western politicians, primarily representatives of Washington and Brussels, and good intentions are officers, or representatives of the NATO Pact? Well, how long does it take a head to fly off and pay them for our naivety? On the other hand, we are also offered modern weapons, and a defense system by the Russian Federation. What's up with us? It is up to us to allow them to establish their bases, primarily to use the airport, to use some other locations, but if Bonsteel is on Serbia's territory near Urosevac, why shouldn't the Russians have their bases? Why would we be so weak, so small, tormented, exhausted in wars, why would we always stand up to these great forces, and on the other hand we have an offer, a hand stretched out by the Russian Federation, that they protect us, not because they are painful, not because they are emotional, but because they protect their interests, protect their safety and their safety? A wise policy in Serbia should see that chance, not in classical but corny answers – it is politics, it is a political stance, and we, as EU candidate, should participate in missions, even those where our representatives would recognise Kosovo. Tomorrow's probably the second part, don't let God get away. You must take care, the army has always been a factor in the great trust of the citizens of Serbia. Don't be worse than the previous ones, because it's obviously an unwritten rule, at least until now I haven't noticed that the newly appointed minister is rising and showing an expensive watch. Well, let's make it a good sign. As for the fleet, don't even look up. At least you know the job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5280	The word has been given by MP Dejan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5281	Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Minister, no matter what this debate may have been since this morning, may have been a little bit sharper, it is the spirit of parliamentaryism. You have now come from the profession to the level of politics by becoming a minister, so you understand that. But with these suggestions, you're in a friendly atmosphere here today. In fact, over two-thirds of the MPs will support your motions for decisions, unlike previous times, I am a long MP, when ministers had to fight seriously for most, with a debate that was filled with everything and everything, just not facts, and demagogue and conspiracy theories, but somehow it seems to me that today will always be facts ahead and victory. That is what is looking forward to and that is what is progressing in the debate, in the discourse in parliament. My personal reasons for supporting peace missions, so for the last 70 years, if I may say, that collective ability of the UN countries to preserve peace and stability depended on these people on the ground, on their abilities, on the courage to deal with their work in countries covered by war or some conflict. In the last 70 years, from Côte d'Ivoire, Rwanda, Congo, Liberia, a million people have participated in the preservation of peace, in the prevention of violence, in the preservation of life. What is perhaps the most important thing to me, besides that they keep the lives of citizens where they do their jobs, is that peace missions give these societies a chance, these countries to rebuild their societies and citizens to offer normal lives. These are strong reasons why I personally and why the DS supports the involvement of our army in peacekeeping missions. At this point, slightly less than, if I'm not mistaken, you'll correct me, 100,000 people, military, police, civilians guarding peace, guarding civilians in South Sudan, training the Haitian police. I think we should get in line with those countries that are today saluting all those honorable soldiers who are doing their job, difficult but very human. Serbia participates with over 300 soldiers on peacekeeping missions. It should be said that our participation in peace missions is actually in all our strategies, both in the National Security Strategy and in the Defence Strategy, in the Constitution. Anyone who wishes to challenge, not to have their own political position that they should not participate, to challenge participation in peacekeeping missions must challenge these documents. What I want to talk about is that you benefit our countries from participating in peace missions. First of all, a very clear message that we want to be partners with the United Nations countries in building peace, preserving stability, preventing violence, preventing terrorism, protecting people's lives. We want to be partners with those countries. What does that mean for us specifically? It's a chance to build better foreign political ties, our reputation, to strengthen our diplomatic opportunities. This is where we come up with one serious question that we can debate. I don't know if we're using that chance. What I'm talking about is a chance, but are we taking that chance? We know that a few years ago, we didn't even have any information that the Srebrenica Resolution was coming up. Could we have used these diplomatic capacities that we are pulling out of participation in peacekeeping missions to have such information, to participate in, to prevent and so on, to improve these resolutions that are being made in the United Nations? That's a question we can talk about. Col. Nikolic asked if there was any measure, do you measure those benefits we have? We can talk about it, and maybe you can say something we haven't heard. What we know is that in 2014, when there was a disaster in Obrenovac and Serbia with floods, the first countries that actually helped our partners from peacekeeping missions. That's what citizens need to know. Also, benefiti, our army, 370, if I'm not wrong people, soldiers who participate in peacekeeping missions today are trained according to the greatest, best standards of the army of developed countries. Those dressed like that are coming back to us. They can implement that here. These are concrete benefits of participation in peace missions. What's it important to say? That's not what anyone was talking about today, that's not what you were talking about, and you have to say, that's a fact. Our army is going on peacekeeping missions just because it's what they want, only because someone volunteered to participate in a peace mission. So in some countries soldiers go by choice, you know that. Not with us. With us, the military volunteered to participate in peacekeeping missions. There's no decision. That's what citizens need to know. You will correct me, I have information that there are over 1,000 people on the list and more than 1,000 soldiers who are ready today to participate in peacekeeping missions. I believe that in the years ahead, that number will be even higher. The fact is that only professional soldiers enter the peace missions now. We can talk about it, but I'm not sure we'd be able to fill all our capacities and respond to these demands that there was no military professionalisation from 2008 to 2012 started by Dragan Sutanovac and ended up Dragan Sutanovac. We can talk here about whether everything is well done. I think so. There are other big problems. We will talk about what he did, and you will say that there are still some problems left, but no one can ignore the fact that the military reform started in 2008 when Minister Dragan Sutanovac took over, or he took over in 2007, finished by 2012, also, when Minister Sutanovac was defence minister. No one can ignore that today. Thanks to that fact, we today have full capacity in peace missions. That's over 300 soldiers. I'm not sure that's how it would have been if the Army hadn't been professionalized in this period. What's your job next? So, for that you will always get our support, to provide funds in the budget, to further invest in every soldier's equipment. What's a soldier without equipment today? It's a mantra, I think, in the Army. He's not a soldier, he's a target, he's a clay pigeon. So, you have to find the strength to find more resources, to invest in the equipment of our soldiers, to raise the salaries of armies that were reduced two years ago. That's your job. It's also your job to speak out loud about problems. It's not all pink. If you have obstacles in some laws, you have to say that here, you have to say, we can help. If you have a problem with the Public Procurement Act, you should say, we'll make changes and additions, together we can change, make your job easier. There have been words a few years ago, I took part in this debate about your plans that the military, that you can change the law, and we, of course, agree with you and you on the participation of the Army in peace missions, to increase your jurisdiction and that you simply don't have to come to parliament every year, but that when Parliament approves a peace mission, we give you the authority to simply work within that peacekeeping mission as you know it. I'm not sure everyone will agree, but we can talk about it. I'd personally like to do something like that. Why am I saying this? You remember the 2012 Lex specialist. We almost got the Army back from a peace mission. We kept them there with the Lex special. Now we have a problem with the Central African Republic. So this kind of change would change things, it wouldn't happen. So if you had the authority to do those things that are in the best interest of our country within the framework of a peacekeeping mission approved by parliament, that kind of thing wouldn't happen. We'd support this for something like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5282	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5283	I'll only try to answer this. I told you that changes are now going to be made and complemented in the procedure for the reason that we've noticed shortcomings in this Bill on Multinational Operations. I hope he'll be in the Assembly soon. As for the lack of a professional army, one thing has not been done properly, and it has now come to a charge, which is that it has not been taken care of these professional soldiers, what about them after 42 years. So, they could have been in the Army by 42, and you know that when you leave someone with medium professional training at 42, what about him? That's not what Dragan Sutanovac was thinking. Now we're dealing with what to do with these people. That's the basic reason. They want to go to the Army if they know that the pensions will be welcomed in the Army, but the law that was then done was short-term and no thought was given. It's one situation that we have today, and it's one dissatisfaction for people who are now slowly reaching these people in their 40s. We made a lex specialis that we extended them to 48 years, but I think it's just an even worse situation for them. Now we've got something planned to try to change, to change something to make it possible for these people to meet their pensions in the Army.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5284	Thank you. (Dejan Nikolic, from town: Replica. Mr. Nikolic, you have no right to a replica. The minister just answered the facts of the law. (Dejan Nikolic throws.) I don't understand. If anyone mentions a party or a party president... (Dejan Nikolic throws.) Here you are, Mr. Nikolic, to see exactly how you will respond.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5285	Mr. Arsic, you're considered a very correct chairman. So it's a normal discussion without some political points. We're talking to the minister. The minister answered very correctly. So, I just want to get on with some things. In 2008, I was also an MP. I'm not sure we'd know what we want with an army like that, not with people after 42. So, such professionalisation that began under very difficult economic conditions, almost impossible in 2008, at the same time as the major economic crisis began. Dragan Sutanovac almost without funds professionalised the military, began and completed the reform of a very complicated system. Every reform leaves some problems. You told us what one of those problems was. There are probably more of them, but if we start talking about benefites, I believe it won't be possible to put on the tas, because the benefits of professionalization of the military, done from 2008 to 2012, are much bigger than those of the Sutanovec Minister who really exists. It is because of this kind of professionalisation, due to the reform that has been completed, welcomed by the entire international community, that other countries have come to take an example of how such a detachment of GDP can make someone professionalise the military. So we have managed to fill our capacities in peace missions and today we are talking about 370 people participating in peacekeeping missions, I'm not sure we would have done it without such professionalization as that by Dragan Sutanovac. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5286	The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5287	I've distracted you, Mr. Arsic, that we will come to this situation that we have come to. So this is the third authorised representative of the DS. The mandated representative of the DS was, if I am not mistaken, Mr Milojic, and then the authorised representative is the head of the parliamentary group, Ciric, I see now that he is the authorised representative of Dejan Nikolic. So it turns out he's... (Radoslav Milojičić, from the place: You hear well, but you do not see well. I don't see well. You're right, Keno. I'm a little man in my age.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5288	Please, no personal address.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5289	I don't see very well you're right, but I can count and I've counted three authorised DS representatives so far. Three DS MPs sitting in the O.R. As far as I can tell, they're all authorized. I ask you, Mr Arsic, or the principle which says - that the authorised representative of any member of the parliamentary group is the one who gets on your paper in the morning, signed by the president of the parliamentary group, or we will make flying changes. If we're going to make flying changes, I'm going to be the president of the SNS parliamentary group to do, now I'm going to count all the MPs here and everyone will be authorized at the same time, and whenever anyone mentions Alexander Vukic and SNS, every one of my colleagues will be able to answer the word, because they'll be able to be an authorised representative. I ask you, most kindly, with all the courtoasia political that should be given to someone who is a minority, I understand that, but I cannot understand that the basic principle is violated, that each parliamentary group represents either the president of the parliamentary group or the deputy or the authorised representatives appointed by the president of the parliamentary group. This is what I think precedents in the work of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5290	Thank you. Mr. Martinovic, he did not get his word as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group of counterparts, Nikolic. He had his own statement answered by the minister and he felt he needed to respond to the minister. (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: He received a word based on the mention of Dragan Sutanovac. No, he didn't get a word based on what the minister said, let's get the whole discussion back. Col. Nikolic praised Sutanovac, now president of the DS, Mr. Djordjevic said the law is not so successful because people who are professional soldiers at 42 can no longer be, have no right to retire, and then some excuse was that it was the time of the economic crisis. One of the most ordinary discussions in parliament. The word is made by MP Branko Stamenkovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5291	Article 103(4), the MP shall indicate which member of this Rules of Procedure is injured. Col. Martinovic just reported in and said he had reported after the injury to the Rules of Procedure, he did not say by which member exactly. Can't he remember in a moment which member it is or what? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5292	Ma'am, there's something I need to tell you. Usually by resorting to the use of the Rules of Procedure, they use the right of parliamentary groups to come into some discussion, and other parliamentary groups tend to observe it. Whether they're interested or not, I don't know. So far, it has not been a practice for a representative group to appear. (Branka Stamenkovic, from the place: You know what, we don't do things here as usual but in the Rules of Procedure, and we don't have a Rules of Procedure. Ma'am, you can't chat with me. Usually this kind of advertising of the Rules of Procedure is just a lack of political ideologies, but I can't help it. Do you want to make a statement in the voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) The word has a National MP, Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5293	The Honorable Chairman and Mr. Minister of Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let's get back to the agenda. So today we have a discussion on the proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2016, as well as another proposal for a decision to adopt an annual plan for the use of the military and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2016. As I recall and last year we had about the same time this agenda point, and I guess that's how it's going to be next year. Our SPS parliamentary group will certainly vote in favour of these decisions as well as the majority of MPs in this assembly, and that is why here I will speak affirmatively some words and some views on this matter, not contesting the right of some other parliamentary groups to have a more critical position, perhaps justifiable on certain issues, but I will not go into it. In any event, the active involvement of UN member states in multinational operations is of paramount importance, taking into account a large number of crisis areas, armed conflicts, cases of threat to the rule of law, which is essential for the preservation of peace and security in the world. There are too many crisis points, and therefore the UN function is very important in the engagement of these missions, or multinational operations. The decision creates the possibility of participation in accordance with our capabilities and in humanitarian organisations, where necessary, and we cannot assume that when it can happen, and it is perfectly fine that we have a decision that we can use our forces in humanitarian operations. Also, to remind myself that it is in accordance with Article 5(4) of the Defence Act, the country's defence is achieved by participating in multinational operations, so it is practically our obligation, not just a matter of goodwill or no, we are also playing that circuit. We do not live separately, we are not in political, economic, or in any other respect, under the autistic allegations that we do not need cooperation from other countries. We live in an international community and we are part of it and we need to be active in this regard. It is commendable and it is good in political and in every other sense that we are an active participant in the preservation of peace and security in the world. What is important to say is that the use of military and other forces in these multinational operations is always established on the basis of a Security Council resolution. Therefore, in that formal sense, there is a legal basis behind it that no one can dispute, also in a small number of cases, based on Security Council decisions, or the EU. Of course, our country's participation with its military and other defence forces in multinational operations and in peacekeeping missions has other important dimensions to say a certain point of view and speak a word. For 60 years now, our country has been participating in peacekeeping missions and to remind me, this is our authorised representative, Government of Zagredin, and said that our first mission, and this was largely in Sinai from 1956 to 1967, and that practically what we are doing today is, through a smaller scale, in one meaningful way, in accordance with our possibilities, the continuation of a brilliant tradition that our country had in the earlier period, I mean SFRY, meaning, during Tito. It was indeed a great and very powerful promotion of peace and what was the political position of the country at the time, that such an environment should be built and peace should be preserved in the world, and that our country would be an active factor in all this. I will also say that our country was involved with some 70,000 soldiers and participants in peacekeeping operations at the time, and that Serbia, along with Montenegro, gave about 50,000, which means about 70% of the participants are from the Republic of Serbia and part of Montenegro. This is important to say in terms of reminding ourselves how important it was then and how important it is for us to continue on this path today. So, participating in peace operations in Sinai, I said in 1956 to 1967, then in Yemen in 1963 to 1964, then in Iran and Iraq on a separation line in 1988 to 1991. In the mission to Sinai we have the impressive participation of Yugoslavia, in 22 rotations for 11 years there were 14.265 soldiers, i.e. from the total peace mission that lasted so long, our country gave 21.54% to its participation there. So we can see through that how important our country's involvement in these operations was. Also, I would like to point out that our command personnel were very important in these peace missions and were often in command. So I'm going to mention this occasion, and it doesn't have to be forgotten, and it's worth mentioning, and it's an opportunity for Colonel Lazar Musnicki to be the acting commander of a peace mission in Sinai for six months. Colonel Branko Pavlovic served as commander of the military mission in Yemen, and Major General Slavko Jovic was on the line of separation for two years and successfully carried out his mission. It was certainly in that sense on the external political plan that a country as an active factor and a peace builder would receive certain estimates, get new friends and be as a country, as such accepted in all other spheres of life and work in the international community. Therefore, it is undeniable that the great reputation of the SFRY has been gained by participating in maintaining peace and security in the world. That is why it is important for Serbia to continue on this path today, because participation also makes new friendships, opens up other aspects and opportunities for economic and economic co-operation, then, for the progress of the military industry, to make new arrangements regarding what the dedicated industry produces in military forces and to open many other doors to successful co-operation. For all these reasons, there is no need for us to enter any other details and find certain shortcomings regarding where our forces will be engaged, but we support one such policy and, of course, it is good that we have not strayed from that policy, that it is a general policy which hopefully remains in the future, regardless of who is in power. Finally, I would like to point out again that the SPS parliamentary group, together with the Greens, will vote in favour of these decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5294	Thank you. Milavan Dracun has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5295	Thank you, President. Ministers with guests, fellow MPs, on several occasions over the past years I have insisted that our army participate in a number of EU missions, given our country's strategic commitment to membership in the Union. Before I move on to multinational operations, there's only one thing I'd like to mention, Mr. Minister. I have seen in this report when it comes to the operation of the VOA that you have written, otherwise the VOA is very important for the collection of information on the basis of which the safety of our soldiers going into multinational operations is assessed – in this period received and processed 2,184 telegrams and material of informational character and even 3,962 pages of open source material based on which 403 documents were produced with informational analytical content used in the operation of the VOA. When I look at this data, I assume that by means of open sources you mean Internet, newspapers, televisions, various studies, I have a feeling that the VOA seems to have become instead of an offensive, defensive service, which is mainly based on open sources that can often be unverified, or that I have to ask myself a question, if an VOA operative comes up with some document or information from direct contact with his source and if that information is not confirmed on the Internet – whether it will be rejected or not? I would really like, instead of 4,000 of these open source pages, to better have 4,000 operational agent reports, not so much from open sources, and I believe that Colonel Stojkovic, the new VOA director, will again put operational agent work on the ground of the service. After all, the world’s leading services, despite the extremely modern technical equipment, are increasingly turning to man as the primary basis for the operation of intelligence services. Let me just give you an example, when a few years ago, when I came by my own work as a journalist to the UN Central Intelligence Unit's material on radical Islam on KIM, I went to the editor of one of the distinguished daily newspapers to publish this material. He was very valuable because he pointed out that Western services know very well what kind of jihad base is being created in Kosovo. She immediately went online and asked for a central intelligence unit and said she was gone. I said it's not supposed to be on the Internet. It was only after a year when a UN report mentioned the operation of that central intelligence unit and the material that I had come to, that everyone considered it appropriate to publish. I just want to remind you about these open sources. As far as multinational operations are concerned, you have cited the involvement of a member of the Serbian Army in multinational operations under the mandate of the EU, which I am now interested in, within the framework of a common security and defence policy, the Republic of Serbia is integrated into this important area of EU activity. I agree. I think it is of particular importance for Chapter 31 of the EU's negotiations on common foreign and security policy, which can become a burning political issue in Serbia. A common security and defence policy is an integral part of the EU's common foreign and security policy, and it is able and provides operational capacity relying on civilian and military resources. The Union can use them in a mission outside, to preserve peace, prevent conflict and strengthen international security, but in line with UN Charter principles unlike NATO pact missions. The implementation of these tasks shall be carried out using the means provided by the Member States. Serbia has been actively participating in a common security and defence policy since 2012 by creating a legal framework for co-operation, i.e. by adopting an agreement on security procedures for the exchange and protection of classified information between Serbia and the EU, an agreement establishing a framework for Serbia's participation in EU crisis management operations and the adoption of a Law on the application of Serbia's Army and other defence forces in multinational operations outside Serbia's borders, which fully creates our framework for co-operation with the EU on the plan. Serbia's participation in the EU's common security defence policy is essential in the phase of the negotiations process for our country's membership in the UN, as the obligations of Chapter 31 have special importance in negotiations with the EU, although the chapter is seen as a relatively technical issue. Harmonising the foreign and security policy of candidate countries with EU policy is not easy, because this means that it is necessary to balance its own national interest with the interests of the main actors in the region and the world, which are certainly the EU and the United States, although the EU itself is divided when it comes to many foreign policy issues, such as the question of KIM, and then Syria, Iraq and Ukraine. In the case of Serbia, the specificity or deviations in its approach to certain international topics that are relevant to EU members concern, inter alia, the relationship with NATO and especially with the issue of membership in this organisation, the issue of unilaterally declared independence of KIM and the indirect consequences of this situation on Serbia's foreign policy, as well as the relationship with Russia and its foreign policy, particularly in the context of the crisis in Ukraine. It is in my opinion that the negative effect of these issues in Chapter 31 can be significantly compensated, and the assessment of progress is more favourable, through participation in the EU's common security and defence policy, and the most powerful event in EU missions. From this plan of use and participation in peace operations, I see that for 2016, a significant increase in EU missions is foreseen in which we participate with military and police forces. Serbia, as far as I know, is the seventh in Europe and the first in the Balkans to participate in EU missions. These facts assuring the view that EU membership is a key priority for Serbia, which should insist in all contacts with officials in Brussels on the objective evaluation of our significant contribution to the EU's common defence and security policy and on the overall positive assessment of progress in Chapter 31. In the report, you also say, what is the paper, in order to define the mode of participation of members of the Serbian Army's defence ministry as part of the EU's battle groups. Helbrou, the Serbian Army's general staff, proposed terms for expert talks according to the plan for international military co-operation. Therefore, our participation is planned in addition to civilian operations and military missions and in the EU combat groups, which would round up our EU co-operation framework in the common defence and security policy. A country like Serbia seeking EU membership certainly cannot and should not avoid participating, but should make a full contribution to a common European response to globalising security challenges, but to ensure that as a candidate state, it protects its specific political and security interests. That is why certain caution is needed when engaging in combat groups. What are fighting groups anyway? These are units consisting of 1,500 officers, which can be deployed within ten days of the EU decision to start the operation and can be held on the ground for up to 30 days, or 120 days with rotations. The larger Member States form their own battle groups, while the smaller countries are joining together, form a common partnership in which partner countries can participate. The participation of our forces in the EU battle groups will be a fundamental shift in co-operation on the plan. These are rapid response forces, elite troops going into battle, so it is necessary to raise our participation in the EU combat groups to the highest level, without the right to error, because the engagement of these groups will bear the greatest possible risk for our soldiers, but more because of possible negative implications in the event that the battle group in which our soldiers will eventually be used in the area and against which Serbia has no reason to conflict and could, in that case, suffer major geopolitical damage. Therefore, it is necessary to avoid possible political traps when deciding to participate in EU combat groups. Finally, our strategic foreign policy definition is EU membership, and it is necessary to constantly improve, raise our participation to a higher level in the EU's common foreign and defence policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5296	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Jahja Fehratovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5297	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable ministers and associates, today we are discussing the participation of the Serbian Army in multi-national international missions aimed at helping to establish peace and reconciliation among conflicted nations in war-torn areas. It's something good, something that should depict the nobleness and pride of our people. However, my intention is to talk about one aspect that is very important for success, both international missions and the internal structure of the Army itself, which is a harmony in which all peoples living in Serbia will feel the same way as the Army. You will admit that this is not a simple process, especially among Bosniaks and Albanians and other Muslims, Serbian citizens, given the recent experience and decades of negative connotations, which concerned the participation of the Serbian Army in wars in the former Yugoslavia. One of the most difficult fields and the biggest challenges for the reconciliation policy that we try to implement concerns exactly the military. Bosniaks, Albanians and other minority nations do not recognise their identity in the current organisation of the Serbian Army. Their religious and national specificities are neither proclamative, nor fundamentally recognized in the system, which produces indolence, not even to say reluctance to the military. For these reasons, it is necessary within the Serbian Army to integrate their specialities if they are to experience and accept the military as their own. There is no need for great effort, and we can benefit from the experience of the Intermediate, when Muslims in the military of the Kingdom of SHS, and then Yugoslavia had special statements, given the culture of nutrition in which the consumption of pigmeat and their processing was prohibited, especially the institution of military imams and mehjids, in which they performed religious rituals. Today, we are trying to restore the trust of Muslims in Serbia's Army to these very criteria. Unfortunately, however, they are wrong and predicated to failure. Why? Because this very sensitive problem is being approached unilaterally and without genuine will by most Muslims of Serbian citizens to regain confidence in the military. Imams that come from paraverical formation, artificially constructured during the former regime, have no authority, nor deserve respect and recognition of Muslims. Most Muslims do not view them as imams at all, and in the most tolerated form they experience them exclusively as officials of their own regimeal Islamic community. It is necessary that Bosniaks, Albanians and other Muslims, non-Serbs in the Serbian Army, have representatives of their own indigenous and only legitimate Islamic communities in Serbia to gain confidence in the institution. In addition, a halal standard must be introduced into Serbia's military and special ones that would prepare food for Muslims according to their food culture. With respect to these two proposals, the Serbian Army would have the opportunity to regain the reputation of Muslim people, which has repeatedly shown its heroism several times in history by defending common values, with constant policies of reconciliation, tolerance, mutual respect and respect. This is especially noteworthy at this moment, when after 100 years of this people's cultural memory, they are trying to install a memory of Muslim brigades, composed of a wave of Bosniaks from Sandzak, which have provided the strongest support from all units in defending Belgrade from the 1915 occupiers, and I also join the initiative to raise the sights of these great heroes in Belgrade. May the eternal ricket be their soul and great glory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5298	Thank you, MP. You didn't say anything about the subject, but I didn't want to interrupt. The word is made by Minister Zoran Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5299	Of course, you have the right to your opinion and your findings, but the reality in the Army of Serbia is completely different. In Serbia's military, very visible and very much for the sake of soldiers of Muslim religion. There are Catholic religions and Orthodox religions, they all have the same rights, they all have the same rights. It is not true that they are not provided with food according to their customs, it is respected in the army. In Serbia's Army, not so rarely, I come and visit exactly where Muslims are most represented, perhaps for the first time now after many years I also had a conversation with the president of Presevo municipality and we talked about how the military and how it can help the people down when winter comes now. I don't think what you're saying would be in favor of what I'm telling you, and I think you should talk to people. There are men of Muslim religion in the army, and I don't think they share your opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5300	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5301	Thank you. I didn't say there are no Muslims in the Serbian Army, there are, but I'm talking about the general feeling of most people being individuals for now. What I propose is that the entire Muslim people, above all the Bosniaks, can talk about several thousand Albanians who voted for us, to see the army truly as their own. We are certainly satisfied with these shifts, but they are not yet present enough and transparent. I am, for example, when the Serbian Army after its action, so after its exercise on the Caves to build asphalt in a cave village, but from a hundred and some Muslim villages, it chooses to build asphalt in the only Serb village in the area. So it's important for us to experience the army as our own. I know that there are Muslims and officers in the professional army, but I want to say that this is necessary in order for all of us Muslims, Bosniaks, Albanians and others to truly experience the army in the sense in which it should be an army of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5302	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5303	I just want to tell you that the Serbian Army is an army of all Serbian citizens, and I don't need to prove it to you or show it to you. Your definition is what it is. I hope here and these men and these officers are members of the army and yours. You are a citizen of Serbia and anything to be needed and anything to get you in a position to have and ask for help, be free. These people here and together with me will come and help everyone, making no difference to faith and anything else.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5304	No more replicas, because this is not a topic at all. I was tolerated, you said what you wanted, nothing about the subject. So we don't even know what you're gonna support. You just said you were in. I don't want to spread the subject anymore. There are many differences between you all, we all know, we'd better not get into that subject. Thank you for agreeing. The word has a folk MP Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic. Get Marko Djurisic ready. He's not here. Then Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5305	Thank you, President. Dear Mr. Ministers with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs, since the engagement of the Serbian Army outside the borders of our country requires the consent of the National Assembly, we have before us decisions concerning the work and engagement of members of the Serbian Army in various peace missions around the world, so that the SNS Group and I in the voting day will support this decision. For the sake of Serbian citizens, I will repeat that all peacekeeping missions involving our soldiers and police officers under the auspices of the UN and the EU are aimed primarily at the humanitarian and humanitarian motive of engagement. The situation in the world, both politically and securely, is unfortunately coming together from day to day, and new crises and new conflicts are escalating daily on the entire planet. Many of the challenges faced by individual countries are the start of armed conflicts with decades of duration, through the operation of various terrorist groups, open sea pirates, migrant crises affecting millions of people, both those who have embarked on the path of migration and those whose countries and columns of migrants are passing through. Most often, in all crisis situations, the most vulnerable groups of people who are the weakest, especially children, women, old and sick, and the general civilian population, are the most affected. It is precisely the protection of these categories of population that is the main motive for the engagement of our armed forces in order to at least mitigate the political solution, if not completely eliminate the consequences of armed conflicts. Also, as regular escorts of all armed conflict, activities that further endanger the security and survival of civilians such as trafficking in human beings, classical crime, arms trafficking and narcotics, violation of basic human rights, there is no point in political rights, or talking. Then, a variety of infectious diseases that are clocked by hundreds and thousands of human lives and that are very difficult to control, up to the entry of various militant groups into villages and cities, where terror, violence, and slaughter are being committed throughout the Middle Ages. Our country and we as a responsible society are here to help and try to mitigate the consequences of such disasters because we are active factors in the preservation of peace. On the other hand, in addition to the dominant humanitarian aspect of the engagement of our military and police officers in the area of crisis hotspots, it should be said that by such engagement of our armed forces, Serbia as a state plays an important role in peace missions at the planetary level. At the same time, in addition to theoretical training in peacetime conditions, our military and police members on the ground and in real conditions will apply what they have learned and what they have been trained for, and all in order to protect the most endangered categories of the population, along with colleagues from other countries who also participate in peacekeeping missions. Finally, with the desire for this kind of engagement to be as rare and few as possible and with the desire for our people to return from all these missions as so far live and healthy and pure face, I call on all colleagues to support the day to vote in that decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5306	Thank you. There is a word, since Marko Djurisic is not there, Maja Vidinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5307	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of fellow Members and colleagues, Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the Serbian Army, it is my pleasure that today we have the opportunity to talk about this topic which is very different from the atmosphere in which we unfortunately had the opportunity to talk about joint missions on sending our army to the mission over the past few years. I was a witness and these discussions, and I remember your predecessors who, unfortunately, did not have the support that you, fortunately, have today, and in that sense you have absolute support. In this sense, the importance of even spreading awareness of what is actually a joint involvement of the Serbian Army and of the members of our defences in peace-building missions, in protecting and preserving peace, on humanitarian aid, why this is at all important, not only for establishing peace in one territory, but for building democracy, for preserving democracy, for building a rule of law. On the other hand, it is extremely important that all these missions be linked to our foreign policy activity. I'm going to agree with what my colleagues have been saying, that it's very bad that we don't have a foreign policy strategy, which is certainly not your responsibility, it's no offense to you, but certainly our foreign and defence objectives, when we talk about sending a mission, would be measuring the results of what has been achieved in certain countries, be that far better if we could have such a strategy and if those objectives could be controlled. So, when we point out, unfortunately, today we also have a certain kind of misunderstanding about what the mission itself is, but today we have a less need to talk than a few years ago when a reform of the defence system is launched. I would like you in that sense to be proud of what some of your predecessors have done to a good reform. It's not something that's their plus, it's plus for this country, for a system that's extremely important. Unfortunately, we have a situation in the past five years that we have four defence ministers. I don't think that's good for such a sensitive and important segment. If something other than the state is about stability and security and certainty, it's in the defense system. I believe you don't need to speak in that sense. What my colleagues were saying, that's that missing strategy, that's that correlation between those two strategies. When we talk about the importance and guidance of members of the military, police on a peacekeeping mission, and because of colleagues who, unfortunately, have today had the opportunity to hear some arguments that are actually, I would say before the campaign, but the arguments, because they are not based on facts. We don't point it out for ourselves or just for ourselves and for strengthening our capacities in that we're a partner in a peace-building project, and not just because of the country we refer to our representatives, we're doing it for the common collective security that should mean that today is already a civilization goal. In that sense, not only should it be accelerated from year to year when we adopt plans and reports, which is a growing number of members, which is also due to some of the standby arrangements that your predecessors have made, said Minister Sutanovac did, which should be a positive matter and pride to you, which is that you should consider in your mandate not only in what conditions our members go on missions and how what is happening there, but also what is their standard here. So investment in living standards and equipment, what my colleagues have been saying is more than important. Perhaps we haven't had a chance today, and I would like to, Mr Minister, if there is a chance to look back at it, we as MPs who are not members of the Committee, who are interested in the elemental human rights and conditions of our members in all these missions that are also under the auspices of co-operation with the UN and the EU, which kind of moritoring, in what conditions they live there, stay, and dedication to this mission, and more importantly than what problems and challenges they face, which are our mechanisms to solve these problems, we respond to them, what are the visits of the Serbian states, could you introduce us in a few words if there is a possibility with such a thing. So we're partners in a joint project to establish peacekeeping. In that sense, you have our absolute support with a request to look back on a few things. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5308	Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5309	I'll try to answer you. A fellow MP said and principled the subject of the VOA has the availability of information from closed and open sources. Of course, there's always a lot more information from open sources than there are from the closed ones. They have a whole algorithm that they do it on, analysis, cross-reference that information, and we come up with information about what the real situation is, that our people are giving, and a predictive of what there is possibly an opportunity to escalate and find itself in what kind of difficulties. So far, there has been no indication that our people will be at risk in any mission. Of course, we also talk a lot about colleges that we hold once a week about conditions there as well as health conditions, as is safety. The attitude is that in the event of any deterioration, there are mechanisms to get people out of there literally within 24 hours. Of course, according to this and we're monitoring the situation, we're reporting it. The board has the right and the possibility to tour, and we're agreeing with them which will be the next mission. I think it'll be the best way to pass on to you the image and the catch they live in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5310	Stefana Miladanovic, and be prepared with Zvnom Djokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5311	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Djordjevic, co-workers from the Ministry and respected officers, fellow MPs, Proposal for a decision on the participation of Serbian military members in multinational operations for 2016 represents the continuity of the literal fulfillment of our internationally accepted obligations stemming primarily from Serbia's membership in the UN, but also from other international organisations, and it is true that it is essential for our country's foreign policy. Serbia thus shows a clear commitment to continue its engagement to contribute to the preservation of international peace and security. We as a state have a long tradition when it comes to the participation of our defence forces in peacekeeping missions. A significant contribution to maintaining international peace and security was also made by the SFRY, which had over 70,000 professional members of the army in the JNA. This participation of the Serbian Army in peacekeeping missions can be seen as a continuation of the co-operation and tradition of the engagement of our members in these missions, given that the Republic of Serbia was an integral part of the SFRY. One of the examples mentioned today when it comes to the tradition is the participation of our mission on the Sinai Peninsula from 1965 to 1967 when the impressive participation of members of the JNA was recorded, more than 14,000 members in the 22 rotation forces participated in the mission and we were therefore the most numerous contingent. Later we took part in missions in Yemen, Iraq, Iran, and then in Namibia and the last UN mission in Angola. This has gained a great reputation in the world, established good co-operation on the international security plan, and gained experience, I believe that the Republic of Serbia is using today. For the very security system of our country, participation in these operations is important, not only for establishing new military ties but also for gaining and exchanging existing experiences, and what is important for members of the defence forces is to learn about the standards and operational procedures they are certainly using for future activities. As part of the annual plan for the use of the Army of Serbia and other forces in multinational operations for 2016 and 2017, not only the engagement of members of the military and the Ministry of Defence but also military facilities are foreseen. What I would like to commend is that you also honor the participation of women, i.e. by increasing the number of women who will participate in these peace missions. At this point, we are participating in seven UN-sponsored missions. This is a total of 332 members, which is what the Serbian Army and 11% of women make up, or 38%, which I can say is a good step towards equal participation and representation of women in this area who traditionally belonged to a stronger sex, at least when it comes to an officer's or a post-office act. Of course, the percentage of women's participation in peace operations is affected by the fact that a small number of women still meet those basic conditions for engagement in missions today. One of these conditions is that they also have an officer’s, or subofficer’s rank and that they have six years of employment. I will remind Serbia only received first support in 2011 and that the first female officer is sent to a peacekeeping mission, if I am not mistaken in the Congo only in 2013 and I believe that it will continue with the trend of growth and that in the coming period we will have more women involved in peace operations, especially in those concerning post-conflict areas. What the newspaper is planning for 2017, and I wanted to point out, is our participation in European operations in the Mediterranean. This is extremely important for Serbia and especially because we are like a transit country one of the most burdened states in the matter of the migrant crisis. At the very end, I would like to point out that it is precisely the fact that the Serbian Army is invited to participate in more than 20 multinational operations, suggests that our country is recognised as a reliable partner and an active factor in preserving international peace and security in the world. I'm certainly looking forward to having all the MP groups back this up for as long as I can figure it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5312	Thank you. Zvonimir Djokic, and be prepared by Aleksandra Djurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5313	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Minister, the honourable representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Defence, the honourable fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the government of the Republic of Serbia has drawn up and tabled for the adoption of two motions for decisions. The first is the proposal for a decision on the adoption of an annual plan for the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2016, and the second is the proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2016 in line with the active and clearly profiled and designed policy of the Government of Serbia on a regional, European and wider international plan, with the aim of strengthening the international position and reputation of the Republic of Serbia, promoting good relations and co-operation with all the influential factors in the international community, such as the USA and our traditional friends and partners of the Russian Federation, the People's Republic of China, the Arab countries and other nations around the world, but also in line with the definitions and determination of Serbia as part of the EU. I am of the opinion that both of these proposals should be adopted and I urge you to vote in favour of their adoption in the voting day. Here's why. The Republic of Serbia should contribute to the preservation of international peace and security both through its engagement in international organisations and multilateral forums, as well as through the engagement of Serbia's representatives in UN peacekeeping operations and through the gradual coordination of its security and defence policies with the EU, but constantly taking care of its vital national interests. The entire defence system of the Republic of Serbia should continue to contribute to the construction and preservation of peace in the world, with the participation of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations. Since the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia found in Article 140 that the Serbian Army could be used beyond the borders of the Republic of Serbia only after the decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as regulated by Article 8(1). The Law on the National Assembly, as well as Article 8(3). The law on the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia requires that we, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, adopt these government proposals and make those decisions. Why is it important that we do this? By engaging the capabilities of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational UN-sponsored operations, the Republic of Serbia will clearly show that it is an active factor in preserving peace and security in the world. This will provide clear and firm proof of the consistency of the foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia, which advocates resolving all disputes peacefully through strengthening the institutions of the international community and respecting international law. Participation in peace building in the region is one of three missions of the Serbian Army and is based on established security and defence needs and interests in line with the National Security Strategy and the Defence Strategy. This undoubtedly also contributes to building an equal partnership relationship with the UN member states and the EU, but also raises the reputation of Serbia's military in the world. Nor should it be forgotten that the experiences gained in conditions that are close to wartime, as well as those gained by co-operation and joint appearances with members of the foreign armed forces on multinational operations, contribute significantly to strengthening Serbia's military and defence power in the country as a whole. By making these decisions, we will create an opportunity for the Serbian Army, in accordance with available resources, to be involved in humanitarian operations as well, on the basis of calls from international organisations, regional initiatives of which the Republic of Serbia is a member or on the basis of calls from a Member State, a country which has been hit by a natural disaster, a technical and technological or other accident. In addition to all these, the participation of the Serbian Army in multinational operations meets internationally accepted standards and obligations stemming from the membership of the Republic of Serbia in the UN and other international organisations. The Republic of Serbia is treated as an equal partner, it integrates into an important area of EU activity, which we define as a common security and defence policy and at the same time strengthens its security capacities on the road to EU membership. It is not without importance that I participate in multinational operations, members of the Serbian Army, are in a position to check the level of development of their operational and functional capabilities in real conditions and to check the experience they have gained by then. In addition, members of the Serbian Army are given the opportunity to learn about the achieved level of development and the operational and functional capabilities of foreign armed forces, mission partners, to exchange experiences with them, to learn about standards, procedures, functioning and operational use of forces in the international environment. This develops the overall interoperability of the Serbian Army and facilitates the integration of our armed forces into multinationals and approaches our way of working to world standards. With the adoption of the annual plan for the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2016, we will approve the implementation of the plan to send up to 700 members of Serbia's Army and 18 members to more than 20 planned multinational operations and missions under the auspices of the UN and the EU. They will be engaged in the roles of military observers, staff officers, as medical personnel in sanity teams and hospitals, as level units, departments, water, troops and autonomous ship protection teams. Army members would be engaged in the Republic of Liberia, the Ivory Coast, the Democratic Republic of Congo, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Lebanon, the Middle East, the Central African Republic, the Western Sahara, the Republic of Mali, Jam and Kashmir, South Sudan, Sudan, Somalia and the EU Marine Forces in the Mediterranean. The members of the MUP would be engaged in the Republic of Liberia, the Republic of Haiti, the Republic of Cyprus and EU crisis management missions. The annual plan used by the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2016 also planned financial resources for the purpose of implementing the decision under the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia. I wouldn't talk about it any more. Mr. Ministers and gentlemen of the Ministry of Defence and fellow MPs, at the end of my presentation, I would like to present the final positive impressions and knowledge and experience of some of my acquaintances from the Serbian Army, former participants in multinational peace operations and missions. Members of our army are highly respected by the UN for their expertise, exercise, but also by human, moral values. Their acquired experience in multinational operations and peacekeeping missions can be valuable to the Ministry of Defence in order to find the possibility of a more independent engagement of the Republic of Serbia, especially in the logistics of our teams in operations. to ensure that we do not fully rely on UN logistics, which would also make the financial effect more positive. At the very end, these are also their experiences, military faces and members of the Serbian Army who are heading for multinational operations and missions, under quotes, muscled and sweaty gladiators, nor the insensitive robots and mercenaries as they wish to be presented by certain villains and unwitting public opinion creators, but highly educated, highly specialised, honest, honest, responsible, courageous and courageous sons and daughters of the Serbian country. They are men of blood and flesh, like all of us have their families, their relatives and friends, among us, have their problems, their communal accounts, rents, children's tuitions, their outstanding loans, their worries and sleepless nights. They're people. Literally at the very end, I want to share with you the thought – modern wars do not lose the weaker ones, but those who have fewer friends. Thank you for your attention, and once again, I would like to invite you to adopt these decision-making proposals.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5314	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Aleksandra Djurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5315	Dear Presidents, ministers with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs, the participation of the Republika Srpska Army in multinational operations is an important element of the foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia. Also, participation in multinational operations of the Republika Srpska Army and the Republic of Serbia is proving to be an active factor in the preservation of international peace and security and thus strengthens the reputation of the Serbian Army in the world. Also, individuals who have the opportunity to participate in multinational operations gain significant experience, and we could hear today through a statement by the minister that there are clear criteria for who can go and be a participant in one of these operations, certainly leaving the best and interest among members of the Serbian Army is great to take part in these missions. The Republic of Serbia, also through participation in multinational operations, is strengthening its own defence capacities and national security and is thus shown to be an active EU partner with regard to Chapter 31 concerning the common foreign and security policy, but also security and defence policies. Very often, as MPs, especially through meetings of the Parliamentary Committee on Stabilisation and Association, when we have the opportunity to talk to our colleagues from the European Parliament about the different topics concerning the alignment of our policy with EU policy and when we talk about Chapter 31, we can hear some criticism as to why the foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia is not agreed with EU policy, but in the follow-up to this we hear clearly how the Republic of Serbia is very active on participation in peace missions, and we can see that Serbia is the first in the region to participate in peacekeeping missions, and the eighth in Europe. In this year we see that multinational operations are planned, it is planned to send up to 700 members of the Serbian Army. We see that the accent has been placed and special attention is being paid to the involvement of military medical facilities and also to increasing women's participation in these operations. It is very commendable to see that a growing number of women are interested in participating in missions like this. And today, when we look at the list of speakers, we can see, unlike earlier times, a large number of MPs took part in this particular discussion on military issues, which was not the case before. In a proposal for a decision ahead of us, we see that it concerns continuing engagement in seven UN peacekeeping operations, but we also have a newspaper, so seven new ones in which the Serbian Army has so far not participated: the Western Sahara, Mali, Jami, Kashmir, South Sudan, Sudan and the Middle East, as well as two multinational operations under the auspices of the EU - the Central African Republic and the Mediterranean. When we talk about participating in the Mediterranean mission, the goal is to mitigate the consequences and address the migrant crisis in Europe. It is clear that Serbia is on one of the main routes that migrants are moving, and it is clear that this is also how Serbia shows its will to be an active partner in Europe, the EU, in terms of how to solve the migrant crisis. The migrations that have taken place have had a negative impact on the security of the people passing through and through our country. Among other things, these are the persons who come from the war on affected areas, so it's very important to monitor who is going through the country to avoid endangering security. We can commend the involvement of both the police and the military so far. We had no incidents in this regard unlike many other countries where migrants were also passing or arriving. Serbia's government's decision since July of this year formed a command of joint forces to secure the state border, creating concrete formal conditions for the Serbian Army to be engaged in the protection of the state border in the matter of the migrant crisis. We could see that a large number of illegal migrations have been prevented since then. As for other newspapers that we can see with this proposal for a decision, we see that it is the readiness of the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army to engage all their members in humanitarian operations in case of need. It would be called on international organisations, regional initiatives in which the Republic of Serbia is a member, as well as calls from countries that have hit some natural disasters. We all remember a very good flood in May this year, which hit Serbia and it is very important that the Serbian Army can react very quickly and effectively. Then we had help from the Serbian-Russian humanitarian centre in Nis, as someone who first came to react. Immediately thereafter, many other countries, our partners, were also able to see how the Republic of Serbia was clearly defined and clearly has co-operation with all countries, both from the West and from the East. We could hear certain criticisms as to why humanitarian aid was sent to Syria. I think it is very good that Serbia has once again shown its human character and it is very bad to politicise Serbia's desire to help the unhappy people, not by sending bombs, but by sending food. We all remember very well in the '90s and the accidents that have hit our country, how much of that kind of help, that comes from either side, is significant to the people that are affected by the war in the area in which they live. If we look at the media that report, here today, let's say, the daily newspaper, we can see a number of titles concerning military co-operation that the Republic is accomplishing, in this particular case, with the Russian Federation, and see some headlines that show, as "Eyes to the Eyes", "NATO and Russia at the borders with Serbia", and simply create an atmosphere for people to think that Serbia is militaryly defined, that there is only one partner in terms of military co-operation, which is far from the truth. When we look at the figures that show what the actual state is, we see, as far as military activities are concerned, with NATO and with the Member States of the Partnership for Peace, over 20 exercises were held, while only two military exercises were held with the Russian Federation during 2015. These are facts that clearly show that Serbia is a military neutral country, ready to co-operate with both the east and the west. With this looking at these numbers, I'd like to appeal to you, Minister, to increase the number of military exercises with the Russian Federation a little bit better balanced. The citizens' trust is most of all the institutions that exist in the Republic of Serbia. The highest confidence of citizens is in the Army. It's a great task for you to trust and preserve. I wish you good luck in this work and, of course, in the voting day, I will vote for both decisions ahead of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5316	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Jasmina Obradovic, and let MP Dusko Tarbuk be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5317	Dear ministers with associates, fellow MPs, respected citizens, today we are discussing the Annual Plan of Use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2016 and the Decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2016. At the very beginning, I would like to highlight the importance of the participation of the Serbian Army in multinational UN and EU operations seen as an important element of the foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia, which equally contributes to the reputation of our military and our country. The participation of our military in operations, where we are treated as equal partners, certainly contributes to strengthening the security capacities of the Republic of Serbia. It is important to stress that by participating in multinational operations, our country contributes to global, European and regional security, as well as respect for international law and peace. At the very least, taking part in these operations is an opportunity for our army to check, in addition to everything else, the level of its training and willingness to respond depending on its needs. Although, I am free to say, about preparedness and respectability, when it comes to our army, it also tells us that these peace operations are being sent by a number of staff officers who, apart from training, are in command of these missions. When we look at the Annual Plan for Using Serbia's Army in multinational operations and the effects of this participation, it is quite understandable that a decision on the participation of the Serbian Army in multinational operations for 2016 should also be supported. This decision creates the possibility of participation, or involvement of the Serbian Army in humanitarian operations, and based on calls from organisations or states that have been hit by a natural disaster or another disaster. This engagement of the capacity of the Serbian Army and other defence forces, we confirm our commitment to preserving international peace, and it is important to point out that by participating in our armies we prove its training and in order to transfer knowledge to others, as well as to raise our own willingness and training to a higher level. In the end, Mr. Minister, the fact that a much greater number of people registered for voluntary military service than those in the army are, speaks of the growing reputation in the world of the Republic of Serbia and the Serbian Army, and the once-soldier trust in our army, and here it is up to you to grow stronger and stronger from day to day, and that young people really, going through military training, through the voluntary service of the military deadline, carry what their fathers and grandfathers carried with them when they served the military deadline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5318	The word is from the People's MP Dusko Tarbuk.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5319	Respected chairman, respected Minister Djordjevic and his associates, respected Serbian citizens. Serbia's army has special significance in our people, in our hearts and in our country. Replacement is personally our army equal to our country and vice versa. Therefore, it is no wonder that in a survey conducted by the agencies, the defence ministry always has the highest possible marks and full respect by Serbian citizens. It seems to me, Mr. Djordjevic, that you and your associates are walking in that direction and that you will receive respect for your ministry for the citizens of Serbia, you and your associates and I hope that this will be the end of your term. Our military neutrality is one of the four pillars of our foreign policy, and I want to tell everyone who listens to us and that's something we're going to stand for. As long as we are military neutral, we can cooperate with all the marinas of the world to the extent that suits us, at a time when it suits us and how much it suits us. As part of that, I want to tell you that our "blue helmets" or our multinational operations that we're going to send our blue, popular helmets, I want to support that, and I want to say that there are more aspects that are welcome for our military, for our country. Serbia should show that it is a reliable partner in the world on security, that it is a responsible state in this military aspect, where our members will go and do good things, bringing peace to the people in the thorny area, raise the reputation of their country and proudly show that the Serb soldier deserves to be in such security forces. I personally think that, in addition to those soldiers and police officers we sent there, they are also our ambassadors and that they can significantly influence the mood in the direction of Serbia's reputation and respect. First of all, I want them to go there happily, and most of all I want them to return happily and healthy to the glory of the Serbian state and the Serb army. As part of that, following your report, I noticed that we were about 11% after women hired to participate in these operations. I am very pleased about this and not just about gender equality. I personally think that in all the liberation wars and defence wars that were waged by Serbia, the shoulder to shoulder with men were our mothers, our sisters, our girls. I don't remember any occupiers he said – don't kill women, especially don't kill children. I think it's justice for women to take part in our armed forces and get good training for it, of course, those who want to and want to join that training. When we talk about women in the armed system, I can't help but remember Milunka Savic, the heroine of World War I, who, for those who don't know, was the most decorated soldier and officer in the world. She had military confessions from all of Europe's armed forces, as France, Britain and Russia will say. With her war buddies, she crossed Albania and the whole of Golgot and was wounded nine times. She also showed after the war that a great man, beside his one biological child, had raised three more orphans and trained them and prepared them for life. As part of all that, I only want those unbelieving Toms who still think women don't have a place in the armed forces, to think twice about whether they're right. I just want to share with you that I am too happy that the budget has put up places to raise salaries to soldiers and police officers, of 5% and I cannot remember the words of the Duke of Živojin Mišic, who said 100 years ago – he who does not feed and clothe his army and police, will feed and dress someone else. Which some of you might want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5320	The word is from the People's Messenger Zeljko Sušec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5321	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry of Defence, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. The participation of Serbian military members in UN multinational operations and EU missions is an important element in implementing the foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia. By participating in peace operations, Serbia shows that it is an active factor in preserving international peace, security, which continues its peace tradition and confirms its reputation in the world. Maintaining peace and security in the region is a defence strategy and it's one of three missions of our army. Security is indivisible, the security of the state is achieved only in the preservation of the borders of its own country. We are a small country, but we have proved to everyone in the region, Europe and the world that we are an honest people, an honest people, that we are committed to solving all conflicts in a peaceful world, with respect for international law and respect for fundamental principles in human rights. The praises and medals of our members participating in UN multinational operations speak of the praises we receive daily, talk about the readiness and training of our members who have passed training in our training centres of units participating in multinational operations. A little over one and a half decades ago, we were literally importers of peace. In a very short time, we have entered the top ten European countries by the number of employed members of the EU mission. Today, we are proud to say that from the importers we have become exporters of peace compared to our neighbours in the region and that as such we have become a very important factor of stability in the region. Of the currently engaged 332 members of the Serbian Army who participate in multinational operations, 38 are members of women who are engaged as part of the Sanitary Teams, which I, too, believe, for every commendation, that in 2017, the number of members involved will be far greater. By participating in multinational operations, our members of the Serbian Army exchange and gain new experience with members of the armed forces, much more developed countries in the world. As for the security of our members, so far there has been no threat to the security of our members who are engaged in multinational operations, and I, Mr. Minister, believe that the Ministry of Defence will continue to take care of the security of our Serbian military members participating in multinational operations. The members of the Serbian Army who participate in multinational operations are the ambassadors of our country. They are ambassadors of peace, security, ambassadors of humanity, they are the pride of Serbia. Finally, I would like to wish, on behalf of the SNS parliamentary group, a lot of health, happiness and any success in the professional plan, to all members of the Serbian Army who participate in UN multinational operations, and Mr Ministers in the voting day of the SNS parliamentary group will be pleased to support the proposal of these two decisions and, normally, the future proposals of the defence ministry that are in the interest of strengthening the combatability of our army and the Serbian Army.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5322	Thank you. The word has a People's Messenger, Nenad Christmas.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5323	Honorable MPs and guests from the Serbian government, respected citizens of Serbia, I would like to commend the participation of our members in multinational missions around the world because I think it is good, because, firstly, they gain some experience, secondly, Serbia is thus represented as one serious state that actively participates in peace operations. I would especially like to commend the conduct of the Defence Ministry's representatives both on the Committee, where they were very keen to answer questions, and today in the Assembly. And I would also like to commend that the plan, today we found out about the engagement of these units, brought in early in the year, although the law says that it should be brought in during the year, I could find out that they made an effort to do their part of the work on time. What I have to figure out is that, obviously, that plan was standing somewhere in the government until this October 4th when we received a request here to be approved by an emergency procedure. So it's obviously the government's responsibility and we don't know why it's been waiting until October, since the Assembly has been sitting in February, regardless of the snap elections. So there was also a session at the time, and then it could be voted on by an urgent procedure to decide on the adoption of this plan. What I would like to give you as one proposal to improve this law on the use of our forces in peace operations, which applies to Article 8, is that it may be changed to adopt the plan at the end of the year for the next and thus perhaps avoid this time interval, which can obviously last. We had examples, a colleague named Jasmine said that in one year he was adopted even at the end of December. I don't think that's good, and I suggest to you that maybe you as a government are initiating a change of laws. He may have a chance to pass through the congregation, accept the congregation's majority. But if, as an opposition, we give that proposal, I'm not sure how it's going to go, and we don't care who makes the proposal, it's important to us that we have better laws. What I would still like to give as a suggestion -- in law itself, it says what the elements of the plan are, and you have in principle fulfilled it. The second element of importance for the approval of participation in multinational operations can also be listed here as part of the plan. My suggestion is perhaps that you are on certain documents making both the financial plan and the security and the risk assessment and all kinds of activities before you bring the plan and it's probably documented, and I guess I'm serving the army, I know how the military works, I guess that you have all this, and my suggestion is that eventually these documents are just listed in the plan that they were used to draw up the plan. I hope you understand why it is necessary, because the Assembly does not just decide on the adoption of the plan, it plays a control role, so that it is important for us as MPs and especially for those who participate in the work of the Defence and Home Affairs Committee. They might go a little deeper into something to just check it out. I hope you understand that, and that all these other documents that may only be classified if they are not strictly confidential, then by that procedure, but as such documents are done, you can submit to the Members of the People. Besides, I'd only have a few more questions for the minister. I welcome the intention to engage more in the future our technique and technology, if we have it, which perhaps our military industry can make, which primarily refers to engineering units, then some mobile hospitals, etc. I am interested – on what basis are these decisions made by the UN, the EU which engages us on how much, for example, Serbia can engage these techniques or people? What affects their decision-making? Is this, above all, our willingness to be technical and human training or is it a matter of what our diplomatic influence and reputation are and what influence we can achieve in these organizations? Secondly, do you as the Ministry have any contacts with other ministries when it comes to the development of this military equipment, which you would like to push more into these missions, so that you have, I don't know, support from the Ministry of Industry since it's a military industry? Is there some kind of communication, is there perhaps some kind of strategic document or is it intended to cooperate more? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5324	The word is made by Minister Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5325	A little clarification. I tried to explain, when people are sent to peace missions, they're the cheapest for the UN. It wasn't such a policy for us before, and people didn't decide that the technique was being sent. We decided to train the engineering platoon now. He will be ready in 2018. Of course, there's a need, specifically now, to consider whether the Polish hospital level two should be sent next year. That sending costs Serbia for the first time, and it takes two years to get the money back. Every third year is the actual profit of that Polish hospital. First we need to see what the next year's budget will be like and see how we can and if we can answer that. We're very much willing to give, because we think we're going to be able to renovate something that's already got a century, with us, using it. Secondly, there are, for example, M helicopters that are very desirable in these peace missions because they have proved to be very durable. So let our calculations say that, let's say, the participation of them would allow us to buy new ones at some close point in time after we use them. The intensity is that something changes. This new law on multinational operations is about to change what you said. I've already said that two or three times, but of course it will give other employees outside the Ministry of Defense the opportunity to apply and be present in these peace missions where possible. Peace missions work by offering us, no one obliges us to accept, and we accept whether we want the people, whether we want the equipment. We will look at it in the next period to be faster and wherever we can get the equipment out, get out, because we think that vomiting is very useful for the system and for Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5326	Thank you. The People's Messenger Dragan Šormaz has the word, and let the People's Messenger Ana Stevanovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5327	Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers, honorary members of the Serbian Army, officers, first of all, I want to speak to you because I know that it probably wasn't easy at some point to listen to this debate, but it's parliament, discussion, exchange of views, and sometimes something that's not exactly like one sentence that's been said -- that the Army is at the lowest branches than it's ever been. I must say that my impression and knowledge that I have is that God gives us standards in police, health care, education as they are in the military, we would long have been a member of the EU and a developed European state. In my opinion, you're the most organized system we have, a pretty good system. It's a great system. If others were like that, everyone else would be like that, of course, and a political system, surely that this nation and this country would be much better. The honor you defend most and where we are the most visible right now in the world, thank God when there are no wars and I hope they will never be again because in the last century alone in the two world wars, Serbs have lost two million heads, some say necessary, some say unnecessary, but in any case, and then soldiers present us to the whole world with honor. Today it's done through multinational operations or through these military missions, whatever we call them. I know you do. I've had a chance to see a few cases and talk to foreign officers, even generals who participated together with our soldiers and officers on some missions, who greatly praise our soldiers. I heard about Lebanon from an American general who said he never had in his chain of command better soldiers and officers, including American officers. So he thinks our soldiers and officers were better than the ones he commanded in the U.S. Army. So wherever you went, wherever you were, you didn't embarrass us. I want to say that Serbia's multiple benefit is to participate in these missions and we need to increase the capacity as a state of our participation, of course depending on the economic situation, and since it is better and better since the government of Alexander Vukic is working, we will certainly, and here, as we see already and in this review, have an increased number of our members and we will participate in more. What is important to say, because of the delusions that are spreading deliberately through our media, is that these are all UN missions and it is not controversial, even those organised by the EU, and since we are an official candidate for EU entry, it is absolutely necessary, as counterpart Drecun said, that we also increase our scope and our participation, because in this way we prove that we are closer to the EU and that our policy will be fully in the next few years in line with what are EU attitudes and policies, so that we can participate as an equal partner in all this. It is also constantly being implemented, we have heard today, a kind of delusion, as if when Serbia becomes an EU member it would have to implement some decisions, as if as an equal partner it would not be able to participate in making those decisions and to express its views. Serbian citizens should also know that, when we are there one day, very quickly, I hope in the interest of Serbian citizens, we will also participate in the creation of all these policies that will be represented by the EU. As far as multinational operations are concerned, they are extremely important to our army, and it will mean a lot to you, here, now that I can, that the Rules of Procedure allow us, that these officers of honor can turn to us, they would say that, because it means a lot to exchange knowledge, to acquire new knowledge, and also to get to know others who are working with us with some of our knowledge, learning and from our officers and soldiers, in the same way we would be better trained, and besides, as I have already said, we raise our reputation in the world. This decision should be unanimously supported in parliament, without any objections, because it is something that is absolutely in the interest of the Serbian Army and which is absolutely in the interest of developing our defence capacities. That is why it should be without any objection, of course there are these or those species, whether January or November, does not change things, as we have heard many times in what it says in the decision itself, which we could read ourselves, but let's just say that it can be an observation, to say that the remark, to make as an observation, but a constructive debate leads to, as far as I've heard, that the vast majority, even of opposition MPs, supports our participation. That's good. It would be good for everyone to support it, because it is something that is of interest to the Serbian Army and to Serbia's defence. Once again, I, as a member of Parliament and the SNS in the voting day, will support this, and whenever necessary, believe that you will have support in us, and when it is necessary to ask for more, even if it needs to be about the budget, too, although it is already being agreed, but essentially, to achieve certain standards, of course in the budget our entire system and the military must get a much more significant position than they have at this point. I'll at least stand for it, if you need to be here, deliver it to me, and we'll talk, but I'm sure, and all the SNS MPs. Thank you again and, I repeat, in voting day, we will support it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5328	Thank you. The People's Messenger Ana Stevanović has the word, and let the MP Marko Atlagic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5329	Dear Vice President, Mr. Minister and gentlemen, I'd like to look back on my speech to one not so bright part of the annual military use plan, so I'm going to ask you to explain certain parts. The plan envisions that the Army of the Republic of Serbia and the representatives of the MUP participate in operations in countries such as Liberia, the Republic of Mali, the Central African Republic, the Democratic Republic of the Congo. If we look at the health situation, not only the security situation, but only the health situation in those countries, we can notice that from 2014 in those countries, there has been an epidemic of Ebola. As you know, Ebola is a deadly disease against which there are currently no relevant vaccines, and the epidemic is extremely deadly, also very large. This is a dark question, but we must also look to the safety of our members there. So we've seen in our annual military use plan that these countries are meant for our representatives to go, so I'd ask you here, what are the security health risks involved. Also, as far as the state of Sudan is concerned, you wrote in your annual plan that there are extremely great dangers of infectious diseases, so the same question applies to this country. Also, in Sudan, we have an unstable political and security situation and very difficult conditions due to climate factors, as well as the possibility of infecting infectious diseases. We need to look back at the youngest country in the world, it's South Sudan, which declared independence in 2011. As far as this country is concerned, we also have one situation that isn't bright at all. In South Sudan, we have an epidemic of malaria. Just so I can get some statistics out, there are 11 million people living in this country in total, and in January of this year, a million and 600,000 inhabitants of this country died. Also, malaria is the third cause of mortality in this country. So, in what way will the members of our army and the MUP be protected, and are there risks that even in the event of an epidemic, in the event of an outbreak, the epidemic will be passed on to Serbia, to our country? Also, I have to mention again, as far as South Sudan is concerned, that during yesterday, the commander of the blue helmets in this country was replaced. In fact, UN Secretary-General Ban Ki Moon requested yesterday's emergency shift of the UN military commanders right on a mission in South Sudan. The shift took place because the Blue helmets acted and reacted chaoticly and ineffectively to the violence in Juba, which is the capital of South Sudan. It happened in July this year, and they could not protect civilians from sexual assaults, according to the UN report. The report states that the lack of leadership of key senior staff has culminated in a chaotic and inefficient response to violence. It is also said that the peace forces did not act under a single command and were prone to avoid risks. So I would be very grateful if you could point out the details of the procedures and measures to protect our members in case there is an infection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5330	The word is made by Minister Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5331	I'll try to answer briefly, I've tried to search here. You're right, in some countries it is a complex situation and a security and health care situation, and of course when we talk about Sudan and South Sudan, we still don't have a decision to go there, we're just making it possible that if conditions are created, if we judge that people should go there, that we can send them. Of course, when we send people, we get a strict UN recommendation on how and how and what we need to stick to. Serbia's army adheres to all this. There are people out there who, of course, oversee all of this and we act in accordance with those recommendations. Also, a medical examination of all members of the army going into a peace operation is being carried out prior to departure. They get the vaccination and the medication they need before they leave, and they get the medication for the possible consequences of some of the diseases that are most present there. Of course, there are daily medical examinations of these people and whenever they come into a situation where they have symptoms of some infectious diseases, they are isolated and special measures are applied to see that this disease is the greatest risk there is. Of course, if there is, we get information here, they're in daily communication with VMA and see if we need that man to switch to VMA or not. So far, there have been no severe infectious diseases. There were symptoms that there were indications that some were present, however, it appeared, fortunately not. Of course, we don't go there, we get districts where infectious diseases like Ebola are and our people don't go there. When it comes to military observers, they receive daily information about the areas where they are located and their assessment of where the danger is great they have no obligation at all to appear. So we literally try to help these people there, as much as we can, when it comes to population and peace security, but we certainly try to take care of our own people most. That's what we're still gonna do. Be assured that both the safety and health of these people are being monitored daily, we are getting all this information, and probably, if there is, God forbid, people in Serbia will know, too, but we will, again, do everything we can to avoid it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5332	Thank you. The word is Marko Atlagic, and let the lovely Mihajlovska be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5333	The highly respected presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Gojkovic, Mr. Minister of Military, with fellow Members, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the beginning let me thank the High House of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, headed by the Chief of Staff General Dikovic, and the Ministry of Military and His former Minister Bratislav Gasic for having made a huge contribution in the catastrophic floods that hit our citizens and our country in May 2014, whose consequences we still feel, both to the care of the evacuated persons and to the construction of the embankment, the setting of bridge crossings, the cleaning of the well-being, water supply and the provision of assistance of each species. Mr. Minister of Military Djordjevic, I wish you personally a lot of success in your work, which I have no doubt, which is confirmed by your previous activities at the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Serbia. I'm sure you'll make a very good minister. Dear People's MPs and respected citizens of Serbia, and these two decisions, the first -- on the adoption of the Annual Plan of Use of the Army of Serbia and the second -- on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2016, have a foothold in the exposé. (The MPs of the DJB group applaud. ) They have their foothold in the exposé of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic, whom he presented to us, the MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia in this high house on 9 August 2016. And, gentlemen, MPs, every exposé of any government should be a bible for all MPs. The exposé of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Mr. Vukic is the most transparent, comprehensive, precise... (The People's MPs of the DJB Group are getting it. )......................................................................................................... You'll learn, and the biggest, on 560 densely typed sides and the best of all 73 previous exposés...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5334	Ambassadors, can you not insult other MPs now, especially Professor Atlagic? (The MPs of the DJB group applaud. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5335	... The president of the Serbian government, starting with the first prime minister of the government of pro-Matje Nenadovic in 1805 until today. (The MPs of the DJB group applaud. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5336	Ambassador, would you be kind enough to hang up, let this group know what's up? Please. It is that we are not in direct transmission, we are going to be delayed, but certainly the citizens will see. Let them laugh, tap, scream, whatever.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5337	Madam President, tell them. They can achieve everything in life – money, expensive cars, buildings, bank savings, even if they were a million from the US tax, but one cannot achieve, education and proper attitude towards their country when it comes to Serbia's Army.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5338	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5339	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this exposé is quoted in an international magazine for 2016, which is on the Scimago list and is out in Rome. It's the first time in Serbia's modern history that a prime minister's exhibit is quoted in an international magazine. On page 16 of Prime Minister Vukic's 16 exhibits, I quote: "The Republic of Serbia will continue, through its engagement in international organisations and multinational forums, to the extent possible, to contribute to the preservation of international peace and security, including through the engagement of Serbian representatives in UN peacekeeping operations. “ Gentlemen of the People, I would like them to rise up to deny me what I have said. That's how our Prime Minister does it by a system rarely seen in Serbia's modern history and political culture. It's written, it's done. It is said in this high house of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on 9 August 2016, written in the exhibition and, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today on the benches is here with us. (The MPs of the DJB group applaud. That's your attitude to the army. The Republic of Serbia has made a significant contribution to the preservation of peace in the world and, among other things, through the participation of our army in multinational operations. In this way, we will, among other things, spread the truth about the traditional virtues of the Serb army. I'm still deliberately quoting a general who's not ours, but even on the opposite side. Also German Army General Alfred von Macenzen said, quote: "The Serbs are... (The MPs of the DJB group laugh. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5340	Ambassador, please stop. Only if you continue to violate article 106 will I be forced to give everyone a sentence. This doesn't make any sense anymore. I haven't experienced this kind of disrespect for Parliament in 26 years, as far as I'm concerned with politics. Well, since I'm here, I can't ask for a breach of the Rules of Procedure alone, I'd like to give myself a sentence and ask for a vote. This is a scandal you're making. This is a shame. So you're not letting the MP say what he wants to say. So you're obstructing every freedom of speech in this House by sneezing, laughing, banging, shouting. You can't do that. (Saša Radulovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. I don't give you a breach of the Rules of Procedure because I speak as chairman. So this is a scandal over scandals of what you're doing and this threshold of tolerance crosses every MP who came here to work and who's interested in very important topics, two points that we have here. Don't throw it away. Don't throw! (Radoslav Milojičić, from the place: He throws it to me! It doesn't make sense, really! No, this really doesn't make any sense. It doesn't make any sense. Out of respect for this parliament, Serbian citizens who are interested in the topic and out of respect for members of the Serbian Army, please take five minutes off. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I'm giving you five minutes off. (National MP Sasa Radulovica tapse. Don't touch it. Ambassador, you've already got three fines. (Sasa Radulovic, from the place: The break is, I can talk anything I want. You can't yell at me and you can't threaten me physically. You can't threaten me physically. Shame on you. So, MP Radulovic is threatening physically, and that's what I'm asking him to enter the record. (Branka Stamenkovic, from town: Lies! ( b) The letter says: “He is lying! “ O messenger, use the word ‘ lie ’ and say: ‘ lie. ’ (Branka Stamenkovic, from the city: I am shouting that you are lying. That's right, shame on you. Branka Stamenković, from the city: Shame on you! Shame on you. [[After a break.]] Professor Atlagic, are you ready to proceed? I ask the MPs to continue. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5342	Thank you, Madam President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Feld Marshal Makenzen said, quote - Serbs are the best soldiers of the Balkans, a dangerous and warring people, brave fighters and proud people, finished quote. Members of the Serbian and military ministry were engaged in multinational operations under the mandate of the UN and the EU, and several hundred members of the defence system were planned to participate in multinational operations by the end of 2016. These multinational operations are referred to specially prepared persons, resulting in representatives of the Republic of Serbia really acting as real soldiers and real professionals, as they were before. That's why our army knows that it appreciates not only our independence and sovereignty but also the independence and sovereignty of other countries. With that in mind, Lamartin was still passing through Nis, seeing the Cele Tower say, quote – let the Serbs preserve this monument, they will teach their children what is worth of the independence of a nation, showing what price their fathers paid, finished quote. In the context of multinational operations, part of civilians, or military services, who are most often engaged as part of the Sanitary or auxiliary logistics staff, are also engaged. As a member of security, the Republic of Serbia is committed to collective security and is ready to contribute to global stability. She does so, ladies and gentlemen, by acting on her own territory, but also by participating in multinational operations outside our borders aimed at preserving international peace and international security. In multinational operations, women equally, boots in boots, and other men have managed to fight for their place in multinational operations. In this way, they contribute along with men to the expansion of such a good virtue of the Serb army. I remind you, gentlemen of the People's MPs, that the same Feld Marshal Makenzen in the great war for our people said, I quote - I unusually appreciate and love you from the Shumadia, you are a heroic people full of honor and pride, a people of great and honorable future, a finished quote. Ladies and gentlemen, I could tell you for days about the participation of women in the military, especially in the First World War and the NOB, and let me just say that over 100,000 women, of which 25,000 died unfortunately and 40,000 wounded in NOB, 3,000 were severely disabled, 91 women were declared a folk hero. Is there little, gentlemen of the People's Parliament? In 2016, members of the Serbian Army will participate in 21 peacekeeping multinational operations outside the borders of our country and humanitarian actions, in 14 UN peacekeeping operations, in six EU peacekeeping operations and humanitarian actions, or at the personal invitation of the country affected by the disaster. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the respected citizens of Serbia, I address you, the Republic of Serbia together with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the military and the police have dealt with the migrant crisis perfectly to the satisfaction of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the whole world, and has thus shown the true face of the Republic of Serbia to the world. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I've been listening to two days of untruth, and as you can see, I've never told the truth in this assembly, nor will I, because we have sworn to speak the truth at the expense of the minister of military former Mr. Bratislav Gasic. It is not military minister Gasic, but former minister before him in obtaining a mobile radio-real connection system via "Yugochemia" on course differences damaged Serbia's budget for 270 million dinars, completed a quote, a report by the State Auditing Institution, and published a daily on 18 July 2012, page 17. Not, gentlemen of the people and citizens of Serbia, military minister Gasic, but former one minister in 2010, I quote, paid for the upgrade of software for VMA 850,000 euros. It's even four times more expensive than the computer program cost when it was purchased, completed a quote, a report by the State Auditing Institution. It is not Minister Gasic, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, but a former minister, a former minister of government, retired part of the staff in the best years, when they were very capable and experienced, so that in 2004 he retired 26 generals, war commanders, captains, completed a quote, etc. It wasn't Minister Gasic who was military, but one of the former government ministers gave helicopters for film-making purposes, finished a quote. from one source on 7 November 2015, page 5. It is not Minister Gasic, but the former minister ordered that hay be driven by helicopter, finished quote, 7 November 2015, page 5. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course I'll vote for these two agreements. Let us finally, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, invite you all together to vote in favour of these two decisions, because in this way we will all participate together in the modernisation of the Republic of Serbia, for which most at least the MPs have been defined in this High House of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, most of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, our Government and our President of the State. In the end, we give full support to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia to continue to lead the Republic of Serbia to the planned objective of modernization, because that is the only way to create conditions for the prosperity of our country and the future of our children, every day, every year, a little bit, but certainly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5343	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5344	Thank you. As always, in the case of Mr. Atlagic, a violation of Article 106. – The speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. Last time I talked about villages, I'm not doing it right now. It's about that, once again to explain, now I'm going to be serious, Mr. Atlagic is always saying the same passage that we have here in the open parliament and we know exactly what he's going to say. I've calculated that the probability that he's about 99.5% off the topic is that I'm going to press this button in advance to report for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, because I know it's going to happen. Once again, as I always say, and I repeat myself, I ask you, for the respect of the guests who have come here and given their time, to answer our questions, to stick to the agenda and to the presidency, we are not comfortable listening to things that are off the table for five, six minutes. That's why we do it like this. The garbage, it really bothers, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, Once again, especially because of the gentlemen who came here from the Ministry, who spend time answering our questions here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5345	Dear MP, first the government of the Republic of Serbia, here the defence minister and his associates cannot spend time in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. So, the parliament of the Republic of Serbia chose them and they do not spend time, but come here to defend their legal proposals and it is their right, obligation and duty to listen to MPs. Maybe you think of it as support, I have no idea, I can't understand your behavior, but okay, I'm just answering you. So, don't speak for a member of the Army and the Department of Defense. They're sitting here, thanks for that. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: No, but you will.) Someone from this parliamentary group threw it to me – no, but you will. Thank you for your respect for the position of President of Parliament. As for the agenda speech, Professor Atlagic, MP Atlagic spoke about the agenda point. (Saša Radulović, from town: Good job! Well done! Calm down, it's gonna be okay. We do a lot of work, and I know it's a lot of people. It's gonna be okay, it's gonna be okay, it's gonna be okay. It's gonna be okay. It's gonna be okay. It's gonna be okay. We always have a little stronger reactions at some point in time, but it'll be fine, don't worry. We'll keep working. As for Article 106, you did not just say attitude 1, but 2 and 3. I agree, I have not responded to what has been done and I personally believe that I have violated the Rules of Procedure for not responding to Article 106(3). Personally, I feel that I have violated and that I have not responded immediately to the distraction and endangerment of the freedom of speech of one of the MPs, because it is indeed a disdain, shouting, because someone is not listening to the speech, it was inappropriate. I apologize to you, MP, for not doing so. If you think someone here should only say what you like, then we were wrong. Yes, it is incredible, MP, but your MP has now said that you are not being listened to by the speeches of other MPs. And I fully understand that you'd like to be alone here. You'll wait another three years, maybe you'll be alone, you never know, but all it takes is patience. It is amazing. I know you don't want to hear it, but the Rules of Procedure obliges me to explain things to you. (Saša Radulović, from the place: Don't lie! I'll tell you this now - don't lie. I'm sorry that my MPs are so tolerated that they don't respond or seek any damage to the Rules of Procedure because they don't want to play the game that you started. And to it, do not lie; I will only tell you: the education is at home when you are very little. That's why I won't answer what you say to the President of Parliament - you're lying. I'm really not gonna answer, because it looks like someone was drinking white coffee when he was a kid, and somebody doesn't know what it means to drink white coffee when you're little. That's my answer to us for this rude behavior and rudeness. (Radoslav Milojičić, from place: Replica. No, the MP didn't say the name of any minister. Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5346	I'm advertising Article 107. (Alexander Martinovic, from the place: He was a member 107.) He was a member of 106, and I'm really asking you not to throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5347	Please don't throw it away. Let them say Article 107. Please, out of respect for me. He was a member of 106 now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5348	The speaker is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. I ask you to really protect this high house from saying that any minister, regardless of which party, was bringing, and here, there are people who are much more professional than all of us in this room, that he was carrying a hay helicopter. Indeed, it is not going to be said for any minister, regardless of which political party he belongs to, because we need to protect the function, the defence minister's institution, regardless of whether he was called Dragan Sutanovac, whether he was named Djordjevic or anyone else. So it really doesn't make sense. I know it bothers everyone that Dragan Sutanovac built 5,000 apartments for military officials and military pensioners.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5349	There was no talking about...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5350	Did he mention...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5351	It's not. It's not.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5352	We can return the stenogram.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5353	Ambassador Krasic kept asking – who, who, and MP Atlagic did not want to say the name.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5354	He said the minister, no matter what, was driving a haystack. I know it bothers everyone that Dragan Sutanovac is only a month from now... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5355	Ambassador, we don't have a replica, we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Article 7. Really, as much as you're bidding on a violation of Parliament's dignity, it's an honor. The 107th article has remained in the minds of all of us here. So today's discussion was mostly about Minister Gasic. Now you've avoided just saying his name, and that's enough for me, I don't have any more words. We will keep the defence minister's dignity, but we cannot keep individuals if they do something, and that applies to everything, no one has interrupted the speaker who spoke about Minister Gasic, former defence minister. Nobody. Shall we vote? No, you don't. Thank you. The People's Messenger, Ljupka Mihajlovska, has the word, and the Messenger of the people, Marko Parezenović, shall be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5356	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, citizens and citizens, respected guests, I will be very brief and in some ways I will be attached to the speech of counterpart Ana Stevanovic. In fact, I'm only going to ask two questions that me and my colleagues from the DBJ parliamentary group would like to hear the answers. Namely, one question concerns what is happening and have you had experience so far, if one of our representatives who participate in peacekeeping missions, during his participation acquires disability for any reason, and in fact which social and health policy applies to them? Since the documents, which we have received, we have not seen that the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs is involved in drawing up annual plans, as well as the Law on the Rights of Fighters and Persons with Disabilities, which have acquired disability in the war, and members of their families do not include this category of the Army, so I am actually interested in how we continue to treat these citizens, if there is any disability, and do they apply the provisions of this law, which does not necessarily indicate that this applies to them? I mean, first of all, money donations, various support for the normal functioning and care of members of their families. Also, what I'm curious about is whether you have information about how many representatives of national minorities are involved in these missions and whether there are quotas somewhere, do you take that into account when you're making plans or are planning to do so in the next period? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5357	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5358	Dear MPs, when it comes to the insurance of our members in peace operations, it is 100% under UN security. Of course, that means the whole package, but of course when they come back here, if it's a permanent disability, it gets the right to a disability pension and plus all the benefits it has as a member of the Army that has sustained those injuries in such a state. So he has the right to assist, everything that we have under our law, not to list everything, and I don't know everything by heart what's going on, but that's only going on with the UN's security. This second question, we have no information. We all have the same things to say. We've never made as many quotas as people go. I said there are four criteria to choose from, which is health, psychological, the last grade they have is physical. Whoever's capable of doing it, no matter what race or religion, whether it's male or female, he gets the right to go there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5359	The People's MP Marko Parezenović has the word, and let the People's Messenger Tatjana Macura be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5360	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a proposal for a decision on the participation of our Army in UN and EU multinational operations. I believe that these multinational operations and our participation in them are a very important segment of our foreign policy, the main feature of which is close co-operation with all relevant geopolitical factors in the world, and on the other hand, the retention of our military neutrality. The participation of our military in these international operations represents one significantly broader context of this military co-operation. I would first of all like to emphasise some of the two basic objectives of our foreign policy, which are, on the one hand, security and stability and, on the other hand, economic progress. No country in the region has contributed to peace and stability as the Republic of Serbia with its highly responsible policy, where each official and how well he knew how to measure every spoken word, although sometimes it was very difficult to keep things quiet. We believe that our country's economic prosperity can only be maintained by maintaining peace and stability. We could see in our region that even the slightest instability slows down and prevents any attempt to develop. We've had far more drastic examples. Let's say, in Ukraine where today the citizens of that country suffer the great consequences of the unrest and the conflicts that took place there, and all because the country failed to find the right balance between the great forces and to protect only its own interests. We have had a lot of proposals from the opposition today and in the previous period that our foreign policy should look like, so some argue that we should impose sanctions on Russia and turn to only the EU and NATO, but I personally believe that this is not Serbia's interest. Recently, a national MP from the largest party of the former regime in the Council of Europe voted in favour of imposing sanctions on Russia. I don't think they're the interests of Serbian citizens, that it's just a mere courting and courting of some foreign countries with the hope of helping them in their political survival. I don't think that's responsible behavior. On the other hand, there are suggestions that Serbia should turn only to Russia and stop practically any co-operation with the EU and NATO pact, but those who advocate it in some way are forgetting or pretending not to know that Serbia is surrounded by EU countries, NATO pact countries and that it is geographically and historically belonging to the EU, or Europe, and that it needs to have good communication with Europe. When we talk about international relations, there is a need to be a little more honest. In international relations there are neither emotions nor love, nor friendship, but exclusively partnership and our country has shown that it can be a reliable partner for both the EU and Russia and China and all other relevant geopolitical factors. When we talk about this honesty, I also have to agree with MP Maria Obradovic, Aleksandar Vukic, is a statesman, and everyone else is presidents of political parties who only think about their ratings. It's not always simple. We put up with a lot of pressure, a lot of injustice, but I think we've managed to fight for one. The government of the Republic of Serbia is completely independent and after a long time no other foreign force can manage Serbia, no one can force us to impose sanctions on Russia, no one can force us to break our European integration as long as they represent an interest in our country, and that is something I am proud of. On the one hand, I talked about these indirect ways that stability and peace can accelerate economic development, and there is also a direct way that our military co-operation, quality military co-operation, affects the development of our economy. First of all, I mean the expansion of the dedicated industry, especially when it comes to Western Serbia. One of the largest ammunition factories in the Balkans, and perhaps the largest, Chacan company "Freedom" has contracted $150m of jobs of which 90% belongs to exports. In the previous period, the company employs 250 workers and currently has the highest employment rate since 2000. After 17 years, it restored the largest hall that has been destroyed in NATO bombings, which has now invested 10m euros, parallel to that in the town of Uziqa between Požega and Užica, the construction of a military ammunition factory that is scheduled to open next year and employ 700 citizens from western Serbia. These are the topics of life that are important to citizens, citizens are not interested in who in this room will prove to be a very large Russian or NATO lobbyist, simply interested in having more work, having a better standard, living in peace and stability, and everything the government of the Republic of Serbia is doing is subject to that goal. So, once again, I support these proposals and I hope that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will continue in this direction to lead its international policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5361	Thank you. The People's Messenger Tatjana Macura has the word, and let Vladimir Orlic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5362	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, guests, chairman, I want to remind you and to agree that Serbia is a regional leader in the participation of multinational operations in UN and EU missions. Today we heard that 650 members and members of the military, as well as other defence forces during 2015, participated in multinational peace operations through various rotations. Today we know that 332 of our members participate in the various multinational peace operations of which, we heard the data of 11% and 12% of the woman, so we can conclude that we have as many as 39 members of the so-called. a gentler sex, which is very commendable. One of these missions that we talked about today, and it's been mentioned several times, it's pretty interesting to me, and I'd like to look back on it this time without reducing the importance of all the other missions. Namely, the words about the mission that we have mentioned several times today and only the participation of our missionaries are praised not only in the country of origin, or in Serbia, but also in the country where they serve, but they are also praised by the professionals they work with. It's a UN peace operation in the Central African Republic. It has a two-level military hospital, consisting among other things of our 13 specialists and subspecialists and 31 medical technicians and three nurses. According to data now available on the Ministry of Defence site from the end of June to early November, it means for some period of five, six months, this hospital has taken care of as many as 3800 patients, an impressive result for any hospital even in peacetime conditions, let alone in some extraordinary circumstances. Among these cases, it was noted that there were 313 cases of malaria of which 90 were severe, but none were fatal. With that in mind, I would really congratulate our peacemakers around the world on really impressive results and on how they basically represent us as some serious professionals. When it comes to this topic concerning the health care of our peacemakers, I would refer to what my colleagues said before and ask you, that is to say, first of all, that in the Law on the Use of the Army of Serbia and other defence forces in multinational operations in Articles 35 and 36, it is said that there is no dilemma in this matter, that it is resolved not only by our laws, but also by various international agreements. Again, there is no report, or this annual plan, and I can't find the information at all, what are your experiences so far, and do you have any information on that? Or I'm asking you, how many were wounded and how many were injured, how many were taken care of? How many deceased and how and how are their families taken care of, if you have this information at all at this point? To get back to the annual plan. Since the adoption of the Law on the Use of the Republic of Serbia since 2009, the adoption of the annual plan has been practically one permanent and predictable activity not only for you, or the Ministry of Defence. With that in mind, I'm very sorry that he's not here today and the Minister of the Interior, it's also his permanent and predictable activity, but it's also the predictable activities of the National Assembly. It is now the beginning of November 2016 and we are only today considering and adopting an annual plan for the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces to participate in peacekeeping missions. Who do you think is responsible for the fact that the annual plan did not come before the MPs, say, at the end of 2015, or early 2016? If we know that the previous minister has been relieved of his duties on February 5th of the current year, is this failure his responsibility? Since he is not alone in these obligations, is this the responsibility of the Minister of the Interior, or is it ultimately the responsibility of the President of the Assembly, who did not put this issue on the agenda in good time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5363	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5364	According to data on peacekeeping missions so far, there were no wounded and injured, no fatalities, and of course there were no consequences of disability, but we have one fatal case. It's Olivera Jovanovic, a radiologist who was in Belgrade, and then it was only established malaria, after a month passed, the UN fulfilled what it was, so insurance and her daughter got everything that came from insurance. It's the only case there is so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5365	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5366	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, of course I support the proposals for decisions on the participation of the Serbian Army in peace operations, as well as the proposal for an annual engagement plan. It is an extremely serious, important topic and, of course, the seriousness and importance of the subject itself cannot be affected by the slow-minded attacks and behavior that is at the level of what is expected perhaps in the courtyard of a preschool institution, now already in the established manner of a strange group. Serious and important topics have already been discussed enough today about why they are so important. So, topics that mean not only the protection of universal values, values that must be understandable to everyone and that we share. It's a matter of general peace and security. They are also important because this builds up the reputation of our army as well as the states in general. About that, maybe two notes I'd like to share with you, I'm doing it now. It is important that a certain type of relationship is established between states, not only on the basis of what has been so far, but also on the basis of everything that might be. How it might be to our advantage, to the benefit of this country, and to these things is worth the effort. I wanted to say that in this sense, I did not understand the arguments that speak in the direction of whether the state in which a military mission could be organised or organised was acting one way or another against Serbia, it is a strong enough argument that we should define ourselves on the basis of this and the protection of the universal values that we certainly share, but also on the basis of building the reputation of our country and in terms of agreeing to build relations with those countries. So, when we improve relationships, we get both opportunity and extra space to have appropriate reactions on the other hand, so that some of us don't spoil if we're satisfied in the work. If we're not happy until the end, let's get each other to the point where it can be better, and we'll expect some more support tomorrow. That's what you think without tying your hands to yourself. So it is thought through investment in relationships and thus patiently, wisely, step by step. Today, some differences were mentioned between statesmen and people who are only in politics, without being able to go any further. One of the differences is measured right through this kind of relationship. We should support this, not only when it comes to these agreements, but whenever we can do something about building a reputation and improving this kind of relationship between countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5367	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5368	Thank you. Dear citizens, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank both the Minister and the officers present for having a constructive discussion, for answering all the questions that have been asked. Also on the board, and now on the tide. Also on the exhaustive report and the annual plan we got. It shows that Serbia's Army is an institution that really works as an institution of the system, which, fortunately, has survived various parts of Serbia's citizens who have destroyed many other independent institutions of the system, by some miracle, probably also concerns good people in Serbia's military, this institution has obviously maintained both qualifications and expertise and has maintained itself from being engulfed by various party personnel that destroy the entire society we have. The annual plan for participation in multinational operations shows how much the Republic of Serbia's military is appreciated in the world. The very fact that they're calling us on so many missions, because they certainly don't call us because they love us or because they're doing us a favor, but they're sure to call us because they recognize the expertise and enlightenment and professionalism that exists in the Serbian Army -- the fact that we have 332 soldiers, or members of the Army in these missions, that it's much more than all the countries in the region. Ambassador Jasmina Nikolic read and I think it is good for the builders to hear once again – Macedonia has one, Croatia seven, Montenegro four, Bosnia and Herzegovina 40, Slovenia 18, Bulgaria two, Romania 96, Hungary 93 and when we enter some major countries, which are also members of the EU – Austria 203, Slovakia 107, Germany 432, France 867, Spain 613, and we have 332 members. This speaks of the quality of the Army of the Republic of Serbia and, yes, the UN and the EU, we are obviously a desirable partner. It has been said by many MPs, this helps build the reputation of the Republic of Serbia, means not only the military, but all of us, so this is for every praise. We talked a lot about it today, and the minister himself mentioned that the way these decisions are made by the Assembly is unacceptable. So it's accepted, it's said that in the new laws it will be corrected, so I underline that we fully support it. The report, or annual plan, was made in January, as it is said, we are now bringing it in. I'll remind you that months have passed in which the Assembly has not worked. We had a lot of room to do what needed to be done. Whose fault is it? I don't know. Is it the government's fault, which didn't make the proposal, is it the president of the National Assembly's fault? It's simply inadmissible, and it shouldn't happen any further. What matters, I think, is that in the end, the Serbian Army is returning to the tradition of the Serbian Army through our history. We are going back to those proud positions we had in the past and it is for the pride and discipline of all Serbian citizens. We should keep going that way. The Enough Movement fully supports what is happening, to slowly get out of these about ten years of the 1990s, where we haven't exactly done things that are at the pride of Serbian citizens. Now we're back to it. Serbia's participation in peace operations says so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5369	Thank you. You've wasted your time. Thank you. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5370	Just for a little while. It's good, Mr. Minister, that he didn't get into you like Sasa Radulovic. It's good for you. Unfortunately, such luck as you did not have Mr. Zeljko Sertic, did not have Mr. Dusan Vujovic and did not have Mr. Goran Knezevic, since the one who is just coming out of the hall...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5371	Wait for the MP to get the group out first. Just a minute, so you can keep going, 'cause it's loud.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5372	... at the Department of Defense.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5373	Please, MPs say they don't want to listen when you mention them. I'll give you back your time, even though you have 48 minutes and 38 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5374	So that's why you, among other things, are successful, because you didn't get a parasite like this that ate everything that could be eaten and destroyed everything that could be destroyed. A professional bankruptcy manager, a man who managed to get his hands on something that didn't go after Al Capone's hand, which is to trick the U.S. State into taxing. That's why you're lucky. Of course, the SNS parliamentary group will absolutely vote in favour of both decisions. To our soldiers around the world, I want a lot of health, happiness, and to return to their families alive and healthy, to preserve the face of Serbia and the Serb army, and it is an honor to all of us who will vote for these decisions, that our soldiers will fight for peace in the world under the flag of the UN, under the same flag under which we fought both in World War II and under the same flag under which we today preserve our sovereignty and territorial integrity, especially at KIM.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5375	I thank you, MP. We've exhausted the list. Does anyone want to use their right under Article 196 on condition that there's time left? Just a moment to see who's got the time. Bosko Obradovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5376	The Honorable President, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable High Officers of the Serbian Army, the truth, I would like our army to be more called the Serbian Army, which should be logical, but we will make it right in some future period, respected fellow MPs, I am indeed a great fan of the folk song "women love officers" because it best paints the love of the Serb people towards a military call. I truly believe that the Serbian people have great respect for the military's call and that our war and military tradition is bright and extraordinary. That's why I want to particularly welcome you here at the House of the National Assembly because every arrival of a military uniform and the appearance of a military uniform in general is something that should always express its absolute respect. That is why I regret that so many barracks and so few soldiers in Serbia have been abolished that you can practically no longer see more soldiers on the street, and a large number of major cities across Serbia and no longer have the opportunity to meet soldiers on their streets. I want first of all to point out some of the topics that actually inspires our agenda point, respecting some of the important topics that we cannot today, Mr. Minister, open, and that is certainly the material status of a soldier who leaves the army, which I think is extremely alarming and a number of other topics that I believe would also deserve to be the topic of the agenda of the National Assembly. What I want to say first and foremost is to clarify to the ruling majority that there is a difference between Europe and the EU. We are Europeans, we are in Europe, we love Europe, we are an ancient European Christian people, but we absolutely have the right, and that our MP group Dveri is to be against the EU as a bureaucratic creature that brings no good to European peoples, which has become aware and much more and more European peoples every day. We can support the stays of our soldiers where it really makes sense that they are going to humanitarian and other activities, but we cannot support our army participating in any EU peace operations, especially because we are conditioned to do so and that we will not be able to continue on this devastating path to the EU if we do not meet another one of these conditions, which is participation in so-called. peace operations. Believe me, I absolutely disagree with the Movement. That's enough. And I'm going to be a little contrary to what he's doing here as ruling and majority opinion. I don't see that we should be proud of this number of soldiers who are scattered around the world today in some peace operations. You're telling me, Mr. Minister, that we're smarter than Germany and that Germany is giving less troops into peace operations than we are or Austria or other countries mentioned and now they're stupid to give little soldiers and we're smart enough to separate 700 of our soldiers into peace operations? So I ask you to answer one important question - what is the percentage of the total number of soldiers under arms currently available to the Serbian army? What percentage do we send to peace operations, and at what time do we do it? At a time when Europe is ruled by a huge migrant crisis, when we cannot control our own borders, we have thousands of migrants who enter our country's territory illegally and when we should pay much more attention to solving this problem, Mr. Minister, and not to solve the world's war and other problems? This is not the key and fundamental role of the Serbian Army to solve problems in peace operations in 20 countries of the world, but to protect the border of the Serbian state from entering and thus protect the security of Serbian citizens, that is, the Serbian Army's mission. If you send 700 soldiers to peace operations, who will be available to you here in Serbia? Not to mention that the EU does not allocate any funds for these peace operations, that I have to pay for it from my budget, and you will complain there that we do not have enough money to return to regular military service and that this is a major item in the budget, and here you are giving money to EU peacekeeping missions, conditioned by the EU to do so. Of course, I think we should look at the other side of the world, that the West is not the only side of the world, that the organization for mutual security, headed by the Russian Federation, is much more serious, much more peaceful and much safer for us than a more interesting international organisation, but a NATO or anything like that. So I would also like to ask you a few questions, simply wanting to take advantage of your presence, and I am very grateful that you are open to speaking with the MPs, and in some ways, you have shown one respect for this home. The first question for you is to explain to me how we can be military neutral and to those who bombed us and to those who never bombed us? How can we simply have the same archaic towards those who have killed our children, destroyed our property, destroyed our economy, kidnapped part of our territory, left behind the consequences of the bombings with the impoverished uranium, so that we can have the same relationship with them, and that declares military neutrality, like those who have never bombed us in their history, who are fighting for the preservation of KIM in Serbia? How can we just equalise NATO and Russia? It's simply impossible, historic, moral, political, whatever you want. That's why military neutrality in this sense is unthinkable. The question is also, number two, why are we one of the excuses, why are we going into these military, peace and every other operation around the world, to learn the trade, to be in the process of not knowing what modern tendencies and experiences, and I'm asking you a question – why we then retired our high-ranking officers with military experience, who could actually train our army and didn't have to send our armies around the world. We've had all these experiences that don't have many armies of Europe, but we've retired those best officers of ours, relatively young officers. The question is, of course, whether these agreements with the NATO Pact, which are signed by the current SNS-led government, lead to Serbia's NATO membership and whether military neutrality can be talked about and, let me say, some reciprocity in co-operation with the East and the West, when you have, for example. 10 joint military exercises with the NATO Pact, and one with the Russian Federation? Otherwise, I welcome, and it's an honor, I say, here's how many times it takes for these joint military exercises Slovenian brotherhood with the armies of Russia and Belarus. Well done, here's another one. That's what makes sense, what makes sense and how you'll always have the support of SP Dvora. I also want to put an emphasis on this migrant crisis in particular, and perhaps we should consider reducing our troops' contingent in peace operations, if you vote already, and we are against it, because simply pay attention to the enormous migrant crisis, which seriously endangers the security of our borders, and yet it is a priority in your work. Also, I want to ask you, can this further harmonisation in Serbia's EU accession to EU foreign policy lead us to conflict with Russia, can lead us to impose sanctions on Russia and, for the first time in Serbian history, to put us aside against Russia? Because you say that these peace operations, among other things, are a significant step in our further integration. What will we have to step up on Serbia's path to the EU, and will one of these steps be to put aside against Russia? Also, I want to ask another very important question, which is – why would we not participate in the peace operations of the Russian Federation in Syria, in the context of this military neutrality and, to put it that way? While we're already in peace operations on both sides of the world, we're working together with each other. If that question were asked, the entire NATO Pact and the EU would rise and we would probably forget that we are militaryly neutral. Finally, of course, what is most important for the SP Dvori, which we have been talking about for months and years ago, which supports more than 70% of Serbian citizens, what is particularly supported by young people, who are directly and directly concerned, is the return of regular military service or the suspension of this suspension, i.e. the immediate freezing of regular military service for all adult and medically capable men in Serbia. Simply, it is expected of you, Mr. Minister, that is expected of this government, and regardless of what we are the opposition in 99% of what the current government is doing, suggest it to the National Assembly, you will receive the support of the SP Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5377	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5378	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I thank the members of the Ministry for the exhaustive explanations and you can finally see that it is not easy for us MPs to sit here every day. Dear Minister, if you were lucky, as the former speaker said, with the staff, the SNS in the Assembly certainly isn't with his boss, so it's nothing that's compatible. What is good for this Parliament and for Serbia's European path, it is certainly a fact that eight years ago in this same parliament we had 50% of those who spoke as previous counterpart Obradovic, who are not for the participation of the Serbian Army in multinational operations, and that is bad, bad for the state, which we could see, and its security. What is good is that almost 80% of the MPs who participated in the work of the parliamentary groups have now supported this proposal and will hopefully vote in the voting day for the participation of the Serbian Army in multinational operations and peacekeeping missions. I am still standing by the fact that it is not very good, whether it is because of the elections held in April 2016, that the decision on the participation of the Army in multinational operations and peace missions for 2016 is being made today, November 2, 2016, and I hope that you will correct that so as not to open up various doubts. The military is an institution, and we are all aware of it, which has the highest confidence of citizens and I hope, for the safety of all of us and the security of our country, that it will remain that way and that it is the merit of these people sitting on your left and the successful officers, the officers and the soldiers, and less, unfortunately, us politicians, regardless of which party we come from, and so should remain. I hope that the military will be able to send equipment, not just the people in some future and future missions and multinational operations. What is extremely important is that I hope that the military's involvement in multinational operations and peacekeeping missions is accompanied by diplomatic activity, which is not of course related to you, but to the ministry led by Deputy Prime Minister Dacic, and I hope that there is compatibility and that Serbia also has benefits on this foreign policy plan of these missions. There are 37,000 soldiers in Serbia, if I am not mistaken, and 370 soldiers participate in multinational operations and peacekeeping missions, so the question arises – how does 36,630 soldiers live? Do they have the terms of a decent call they're dealing with, and that must be one of the most important calls currently in the state? In the military, there are currently over 50% dissatisfied soldiers, according to research. I'm not saying it's your fault, it's according to a survey that also makes it the fact that the Army is the institution in which Serbian citizens trust the most. Well, now, it's not natural to believe this, that the Army is an institution that citizens have the most confidence in, not to believe that 50% of the soldiers say it's not satisfied with its status or that the status should be better. What bothers everyone here in the O.R., but I'm not sure that's good, is that we can't erase what Minister Sutanovac, then, and the current president of the DS did, it's primarily professionalisation and modernization of the army, and if we're talking about the EU mission, we need to be aware of the fact that Mr Sutanovac, by signing a bilateral agreement in Paris in early 2012, made it possible for the first time the officers of the river units to climb on the French ship "Floreal" and it was also our first participation in EU missions, in general, so that we can't ignore these merits, as we can't neglect, as much as it bothers political opponents, that the "South" base is open at Bujanovac, for which is also due to Minister Sutanovac with our associates and that there is a training centre for members who participate in multinational operations. It's not just a center for preparing members of our army, it's for armies from all over the world and the environment. I hope, dear friends, that these facts that we have accepted from the opposition, regardless of what we are in the various political parties and that we have different views on how to reach the goal. As far as this decision is concerned, the DS will clearly support the military's involvement in multinational operations and peacekeeping missions, as it is exactly the road that the DS has been advocated for 27 years. Unlike others who used to be at the Karlobag-Ogulin-Virovica borders, so now they're for the EU, we haven't changed our beliefs and we haven't changed our beliefs, but we have a clear direction, a path and a goal for 27 years. Thank you. (Bosko Obradović, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5379	Based on what replica? (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: I mentioned him. You did it on purpose, pal. (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: They are against, I had to mention them. And you had to mention them. All right, clean, it was here that even some MPs were texting each other from different MPs' groups to get those two minutes. Here you go, Mr. Beard.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5380	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Indeed, it is one thing, I would say, to unsuitable interpretation of Serbia's Dveri movement policy by Parliamentarian Milojic. Thank you for giving me the opportunity to make a difference. So, having unity and authorities and opposition, the actions of the opposition, as regards the engagement of the Serbian Army in peace operations around the world, only confirms to me the fundamental thesis that the SNS continued DS policy in many areas of operation. I'm glad Mr. Milojicic has confirmed it here in a certain way. Of course we're not all here in uniform. Of course we have an opposition that thinks differently, who thinks that neither DS policy nor SNS policy is good for the Serbian state and society because they are the same two policies. In that sense, I think the time has come and it is a good thing for the quality of the discussion here at the home of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that we have someone who is different from those two policies, someone who is against Serbia's entry into the EU, someone who is against Serbia's entry into NATO, someone, ultimately, who is questioning just such a beautiful story about these peace operations. So why 700 soldiers? Why don't we send in seven soldiers? That's enough for our reputation. As for the reputation, there is no greater and better reputation for the Serbian Army than to oppose NATO's pact during the 1999 bombing. Then, for many times behind us, the Serbian Army has received worldwide public recognitions that will never otherwise be obtained. Then we showed what kind of army we had when we opposed NATO's pact and we managed to stand up to it. On the other hand, as many times as Mr. Martinovic or my esteemed last name Maria Obradovic must mention Aleksandar Vukic by quotas that 17 times in the speech must be mentioned, it is a question for another analysis.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5381	Time, colleague Obradovic. (Radoslav Milojičić, from place: Replica. You no longer have the right to a replica. He said his position, you said your position. (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: He mentioned me twice. So what if he mentioned you twice? You can do it 15 times. He commended you. (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: How did he commend me? That's nice. He commended you. Believe me, buddy. So he commended you for me. (Radoslav Milojičić, from the place: I took it as a great insult. That's your problem. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go, straight to the replica. (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: He mentioned me, not him. How come I don't have a right and he has a right? Go ahead, colleague Martinovic. I'll explain later.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5382	I thank you, Mr. Arsic. I won't mention anyone's name and I won't mention any of the parties, but I just want to say the following. Neither the SNS is a NATO pact nor we want to be a party that will put the state in a position for its citizens to lose their lives for anyone else's interests. We Serbs in the 20th century, unfortunately, lost a lot of heads, thinking that the fate of the world depends on us. Serbia's government is leading a policy that primarily preserves peace and security in our own country, preserves our people in Kosovo and Metohija and helps in every way possible to survive Republika Srpska as an entity in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And it is not true that the Serbian government has no defined foreign policy. We have a very clear foreign policy. The formula of this policy is very simple, which is – to take care of the Serbian national interest, to look at the world with Serbian eyes and to think of the Serbian head, nobody else's and to look at the world with no one else's eyes. There were words here that we should go to Syria. I don't mind, provided whoever said that goes to Syria first and helps solve the crisis in Syria. But we watched each other in the 20th century, many who were voluntary donors of other people's blood.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5383	You're bringing the end, my colleague Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5384	The Serbian Progressive Party doesn't want to do that. (Radoslav Milojičić, from the place: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5385	According to the Rules of Procedure? Let's see what's in the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, colleague Milojits.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5386	Mr. Arsic, i.e. Chairman, all the MPs here thank you for being truly democratic when you are running this session, but for some reason Mr. Ciric and I really have no luck with you. Previous speaker, i.e. Mr. Obradovic mentioned me three times, once mentioned Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5387	Name a member, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5388	Article 108, on the agenda of the National Assembly, is taken care of by the president of the National Assembly and chair. Mr. Martinovic gets the word if he's mentioned once, I've been mentioned three times by the predecessor and I don't get the word, so it's really not fair. Be equal, no matter what they are from your parliamentary group. You should also take care of the opposition. The hour of that round of luck, believe me, we know it very well, as well as the SPS.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5389	You're a little funny, fellow Milojits. I'll read you article 104, which is the basis for the replica. (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: I said Article 108.) But based on Article 104. All right, Article 108, on the agenda of the National Assembly, the president, that is, the chair of the session, and you have requested the right to the replica provided for you by Article 104. Rules of Procedure. He says this: If the Messenger of the people in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly were to be offended about a Messenger who was not a member of the same assembly, it was not so, they all heard it. What did he say to you? (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: He insulted me when he said that we and SNS have the same policy. No, on the contrary. From the point of view of Mr Obradovic, he said that the SNS is continuing DS policy on the engagement of our army in international missions. What's offensive about that? (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: I'd rather he told me anything else.) ) Second thing, let me explain to you how Mr. Martinovic was given the right to reply. He was given because his colleague Obradovic said that counterpart Marija Obradovic and Aleksandar Martinovic were tasked with saying the word "Alexander Vukic" 17 times, by name and last name. That's not true, of course, and that's why Mr. Martinovic had to answer. (Bosko Obradović, from town: Replica. Sir, you have no right to a replica. The right to reply because of the mention of "The Great Serbia" has a National MP, Bozidar Delic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5390	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS today has never once used its right to replicate, because that's why we wanted to allow this session to have a normal course and it's probably been better than many other sessions in the past few days. Interestingly, the ruling majority made only a few remarks about our presentations. We didn't appreciate others, but it's interesting that some who represent the opposition today address you, Mr. Minister, have said that you are in a most friendly environment today, counting that we were working on an enemy environment. You know, Mr. Minister, that when it comes to radicals, they have their views, their views stem from their programme, from their ideology, and of course they will always speak critically about all the issues discussed here in the Assembly. Also, one of the opposition's side again, it's been said that we are here today dealing with political propaganda and pre-election activities. That's certainly not true. We said our views, you heard them, our public heard them. We do not deviate from these views and what every citizen can always conclude in advance that Serbian radicals will vote, or that they will refer to certain issues here on the agenda. We are proud of that fact, because as Serbian radicals, we always represent what we consider to be of interest to the Serbian people and to the Serbian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5391	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5392	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have listened carefully to everything, I have not disturbed a colleague from “never had enough, ” so I hope that I too will be heard carefully. Here someone in a very ugly context mentioned the head of the Serbian Progressive Party. I believe that their representative will react, but since I'm an old hook, to remember an army from the old days when there were more members of the Star Stadium and Partizana on Sundays who carried arms, soldiers, in a stadium without weapons, than we found in 2012, after the actions of those who have no reason to complain to anyone's boss because I remember their bosses very well. One of their bosses was in some special ops unit, and later he called them bad guys even though he was having New Year's parties with them, like, "my friends are tough guys". So he was also the interior minister of the federal government, taking care of security. When the prime minister of one member was killed, he took his place, and his counterpart, the interior minister, re-named the post. That's one of their bosses. Another boss, they often switch bosses to prove that orientations are highly democratic. The second is remembered for the "Satellite" affair, which was not an international peace mission, which is not approved here by a decision, as we are now making. Here, now he's gonna throw the ball at me again, or he's gonna throw the leg off the singer, I'm not sure anymore. So the second one I remember in the "Satellite" affair, which he did not approve, was not a decision made as to these international missions, by participating in multinational forces. Forty-one million euros, all three were from our neighbouring countries, they decided to buy a satellite for the needs of the common state, and only Serbia would pay it out of its budget. The satellite was supposed to be used by taking footage to get us, 24.00 and 48.00 hours later, as a fight against terrorism. Imagine you're fighting terrorism 48.00 hours later. You get the footage, the terrorists smile, they say – here we've been waiting 48 hours for you to come. That was their second boss. That same boss and his third boss marched through Tripoli along with Camille Aisha. So, as I recall, some of the medals were divided, but when Gaddafi was killed in a very ugly way, they kept silent as bugs even though they were very happy to accept the medals, and even led by a platoon of troops, and the minister knows that they were increasing that celebration for the medals they received. I met one of the following bosses in the units of the multinational Duke of Paroška. So it was some camp on the coast of Tisa and there was a future duchy master who taught his first machines steps in the unit of the Grand Duke Milan Paroskog. I saw it myself. One of the vice presidents who was so nasty in the '90s, I met him in India, he was wearing a T-shirt, I was on flat mountain, all with a Serbian uncle. No matter what mine are from those units, I don't wear it but they wore it, so they forgot. The next boss, the fourth one that was with the third one in Tripoli, I introduced him to very expensive timers, I guess from these multinational operations, out there from some ship or what I know, as all those aircraft carriers are called, it's mostly gone by hundreds of tanks, boats, the military's battleground has fallen considerably. They cared more about the minister of military, current chief than the army, even if they didn't have an army. It mattered to them that the minister of military, the public procurement of the military minister, was important to them that the best tailor in the world come, to make him the best suit. They didn't count on a man, as a drink is not appreciated by a barrel, as a book is not appreciated by its cover, so neither is man valued by its suit but by its work. The fact that he was wearing an expensive suit only showed that the suit was more expensive than he was, but in one of the raids in multinational operations, of course without the Parliament's decision, he took over a small pasture in Belgrade, built a building where you had room for us to put dormitory for the whole battalion. Whose hand was the watch from which you could arm one company with modern weapons of fire, and owned by a penthouse so much that you could put an entire battalion. These are your multinational operations that you've been performing all over Serbia and a little bit wider. As an old soldier who served for 15 months, I claim that our army has always been brave, but we need to learn something. The army shares the fate of society. It's a very sensitive moment. Napoleon said – you should know when to take off the lion’s skin, and when to put on the fox skin. So we must not only be madly brave, but we must continue to be brave, but we must be a little wise that these remnants of the remains of our army that are slowly rising as the state, although those who have destroyed us for years, 12 years now complain as quickly as we do not recover. So the army shares the fate of the state. In 2012, a country that had no state, where it was a house of bare walls and a proportionate rise in economic power will also rise military power. I think multinational operations are good for our army to see where those other armies are. The recognition of Kosovo and Metohija by some countries, I regret the team, sorry, Kosovo as a state. I regret it, but we need to do everything, and this army that goes there, our representatives, that each of us relatively convinces some of our powers to withdraw that international recognition as I have entered the Vatican Group and out of respect for a state that has not recognised Kosovo and Metohija, and in a very harsh way I am ridiculed and a country that can affect other countries not to admit it. It's not my fault that 250 colleagues didn't sign up, it's all the three of us, and someone has to be president. I also appeal to our soldiers that, despite the fact that it does not seem to be in multinational operations as far as possible, that in proportion to their roles they are trying to convince colleagues, especially those who have their own soldiers, and I did not vote for the Ahtisaari-Chernomidin agreement, I did not vote in that assembly there. Since there are some soldiers there, to tell them that these saints should be protected, but I'm undermining again, we think that we should stop being crazy brave, be wise, regain the strength, sew up the wounds that have been inflicted on us, that the less we bleed, the less we recover our country, our army, raise our heads, that one day we raise our flag, that the moment we estimate that it is necessary and that the state should be defended, and I think we've been killed enough in our history for others, that it's time to start living for ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5393	Thank you. Do any of the other authorised representatives, or the president of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (No) Mr. Minister, would you like to give the final word? (Yes) The word still has a colleague Obradovic. The word has a National MP, Marija Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5394	Just for a little while, at the end of today and the debate to round up, you'd better say my personal impression. During this discussion today, many different attitudes could be heard. Those who are seriously following congregation meetings realize that no one has moved from their position that is otherwise firmly held. The question is how smart she is. This was an opportunity to show Serbia's position and unity on this very important topic, because these people there are not on their own behalf, but on behalf of Serbia and our obligation was to support them through the adoption of such a decision. Every kind of criticism, and especially those inappropriate criticisms that could be heard today, is to honor the people who said it. Any kind of refusal to participate in this kind of operation and international co-operation exclusively means isolation for our country, whatever they call it, those who ask us not to be part of this story. Whether we have three or seven hundred members there is decided by someone who knows it much better and someone who assesses the achievements and importance of the participation of Serb members in multinational operations and peace operations. Whether I mention 17 or 100 times the name of Alexander Vukic should not be discussed within this agenda. I'll keep talking about it, because it's not my personal wish, it's the will of the people I meet in the field. In the last 45 days, I've visited 40 municipalities in Vojvodina. Every day I meet people who have incredible trust, hope only to Alexander Vukic. I'm sorry why some other leaders don't have that chance for their MPs and members of their parties to mention their name many times. I am not someone who is an idolatry, nor believe in idols, nor political, nor any other kind, but I am someone who wants to repeat the name of a man who has done much, much more at this time, if nothing else, than other current political leaders in the country. That will be witnessed by history and politics. I want to reiterate that the SNS parliamentary group will, of course, vote in favour of both proposals for this decision, and to you, ministers with associates, thank you very much for taking this time and listening so carefully to that part of the political discussion that is not specifically about this topic, but it is our daily life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5395	Thank you. (Bosko Obradović, from town: Replica. It was a folk letter to me. You have no right to a replica. You two clear that up. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5396	Since there are no MPs from the DS, I would like them to provide us with these imaginary polls that they have and that analysis, how many dissatisfied there are, where, because there are no such surveys. What we found in 2012, and what that beloved Minister Sutanovac left us, is that we found no food, no shoes, no clothes, no uniform, no protective equipment, no wartime material reserves, no fuel, no guns and no tools. You yourself know what happened to tanks, planes. It's one thing that he started the base of the South, but we ended it, and at the same time he neglected life in barracks, which were in catastrophic condition. When you say retirement, you should ask that minister why he retired the best people, because I think he can answer you best. When you say goodbye, man is as big as he can forgive. Serbia is big because it can forgive, but Serbia will never forget and Serbia is very big in that. I'm expected to, and my government is expected to do what the prime minister said in his exposé. The government's policy is military neutrality, EU entry, for Serbia to be a factor of stability, for it to be the most economically strong here, for it to be fiscally stable and for Serbia to be first. It's proven in the election. We showed you in the election who's right, and you wait for the next election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-02-0.u5397	Thank you. You don't. [[Bosko Obradović, from the city: Do I now have the right to reply?]] Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, and since the bosses, or authorised representatives, no longer appear, who have the right to do so, I conclude a joint single search on the proposals for decisions. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint single search on the proposals for decisions referred to in points 11, 12 and 13 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you to comply with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on: Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Social Democratic Party of Serbia parliamentary group; Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina-Green Party; Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the parliamentary group Enough. Do the promoters, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Do the officials of the committees want a word? Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (No) No one filed an application for a word. Since no one's answering for a word, I'm concluding a joint single search. After we have conducted a joint single search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the motions for decisions. We move to item 14 of the agenda – Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of members and alternate members of the Committee of the People's Community of the Republic of Serbia Before the opening of the Single Search, I remind you that it is in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on: a proposal for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the SNS parliamentary group. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (No) No parliamentary group has submitted a list of proposed MPs for discussion. That is why I am concluding a unique search into the proposal for a decision. We're done with today's work and we'll continue work Tuesday at 10:00. I think that's eight. November.
