ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6348	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 109 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 110 MPs are present in the hall and that we have conditions for continuing our work. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word is from MP Bajro Gegic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6349	Thank you. Dear Presidents, honourable MPs, respected citizens, the government of the Republic of Serbia, according to media reports, has achieved observed results in almost all areas. So often we hear about opening new roads, factories, and other very important objects. These factories, as we hear, employ several hundred workers and some of them a few thousand. The results, and that's what the Prime Minister here confirmed to us a few days ago, have to reduce the unemployment rate from 26%, as it was a few years ago, to 15.2%. It is indeed commendable and respectful and the SDA Sandzak values these results as very good and encouraging, but it also has an obligation to indicate that in Sandzak, where the Bosniaks traditionally live, there is no such results. There are no new roads in Sandzak, no factories open and no employment. The unemployment rate in Sandzak is not 15.2%, but well above that, so the example works in Novi Pazar is about 50% and in Tutin is about 75%. This situation in Sandzak has not been going on for many years since yesterday, resulting in the departure of the working population outside the country's borders mainly for Germany and other Western European countries. That departure is often permanent, so no return. The process of leaving a working-age population outside the country's borders has been intensified this year, and is particularly expressed in Tutin. According to travel agents, only from Tutun this year has left about 5,000 people looking for work. Tutin's more and more like an abandoned town. I ask the Prime Minister is he aware of these facts and is the Government of the Republic of Serbia planning to take some measures, which and when, to reduce unemployment in Sandzak and to stop the need to leave the country's working-age population in search of work? This question, of course, applies to the whole of Sandzak, but I'd like to ask that Tutin be treated specifically, because the situation here is the hardest. My second question is also for the Prime Minister, but also for Minister Zorana Mihajlovic, and it is about building roads in Sandzak. Namely, the roads of Tunin-Novi Pazar and Sjenica-Novi Pazar are known to be among the worst and most dangerous in the country, and the road of Tutin-Novi Pazar is at the limit of usability. Several years ago, then, Minister Dinkic signed a contract with a Turkish bank, and for the construction of the two routes. After that, a delegation, i.e. a Turkish team in company with then-NIP Minister Verica Kalanovic, visited the field, made promises that roads would work. The Republic of Serbia's budget has provided guarantees, i.e. these guarantees have been running through for several years, but construction has not occurred. The other day we have a rerun of this event. In fact, once again, a team from Turkey, with representatives of our Ministry of Construction and representatives of local self-government from Tutina, Sjenica and Novi Pazar, has visited these routes and we have heard again the promises that these roads will work soon and will also work the Tutin-Senica path. This once again caused some hope and joy among the citizens of the area. Unfortunately, the joy would be more complete if the mentioned path of Sjenica-Prijepolje, however, was not mentioned this time. But we're afraid to repeat the situation from a few years ago and this is just another walk. I ask the Prime Minister and Minister Mihajlović – is this renewed story serious, i.e. whether and when the roads of Tutin-Novi Pazar, Sjenica-Novi Pazar and Tutin-Senica will work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6350	Thank you. The word is Olena Papuga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6351	Thank you. I'm asking the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Finance. These days, citizens of the Republic of Serbia have received tax solutions, i.e. solutions from the tax administration, which undertake to pay the disposal fee for two years, i.e. 2015 and 2016 within 15 days. I ask – why in two years, for one back and one forward? And why wasn't the disposal fee charged last year? Why can't the citizens pay that fee quarterly, as well as the property tax? The citizens are bitter. They got 70, 40, 50,000 dinars to pay in 15 days, so I'm curious why they couldn't pay it quarterly? Why is the disposal fee drastically expensive, and how much is it in dinars, not in percentages compared to the last period? Why does the amount of compensation vary from municipality to municipality, since it is paid by land class? How specific is the land class per hectare? Please give me an answer to that in dinars, not percentages. How much is the disposal fee, for example? for the first class of land per hectare in Kula and Valjevo, after the fees from the municipality to the municipality differ? The right to appeal has practically been lifted. The first thing to do is to pay that disposal fee, because after 15 days there is an emergency payment and interest, and then a pair or a citizen can complain to the Administrative Court, so if the Administrative Court rules, the state refunds that money. In the absence of information, citizens rob tax administration counters in their municipalities, demand various information or solutions, and we know the attitude of our officers towards citizens, so there are indeed great inconveniences. Forced payment shall be carried out in the special administrative procedure of the tax administration, therefore, not through the court and private perpetrators. What does that mean exactly? The resolution on disposal fees was not issued by municipalities, cities, but by the Ministry of Finance, or the Tax Administration, because the disposal fee goes to the Republic's revenue. But I'm curious about what it is, for example. in the Russian Kristur, in the village where I live, drained from 2015 to 2016? Who's in charge of maintaining the primary and who's in charge of maintaining the secondary drain net? In the cool community I come from, that's not the case. Paras are fighting the groundwaters that are destroying their fields. The Danube-Tisa-Dunav Channel is polluted and no clean-up canals from land that lead to a large channel, so it's interesting what water companies are in charge of, what are the municipalities in charge of, or once again I ask who's in charge of primary and who's in charge of secondary maintenance? The last question I ask is, what's the disposal fee? Who controls whether the water company spent the money the citizens paid for the disposal?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6352	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6353	The Honorable President, the Honorable fellow Members of the People, helps all. I would like to ask a few questions, first of all, to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic. The first question is about his statement yesterday that the first in the region, and always the first in everything, of course, will establish contact with the new US administration, so I'm wondering if he'll do it through Hillary Clinton, Bill Clinton or other friends of his in the former Clinton American administration or who? And how does he even hope to make contact with the new U.S. administration after directly supporting the Clinton family in the American election process? The second issue concerns the mixing of one of the commissioners, how nice such a communist Soviet sounds, from the EU, Johannes Han, who directly intervened in Serbia's internal affairs and began to comment directly on the upcoming presidential elections in Serbia next year, which I consider a diplomatic scandal. In a special scandal, I believe that Aleksandar Vucic agreed with Johannes Han's opinion that I do not know what kind of danger threatens the next presidential elections since the rise of nationalism and populism in Serbia. Johannes Han and Aleksandar Vucic should look at what is happening across Europe, as national political options grow across Europe, such as Dvori, who win elections across Europe, from the Freedom Party of Austria, through the National Front in France, to a number of other European political options that think and say the same thing that Dvori says here in Serbia. So, I think that this interference of EU officials is simply no longer allowed and ask the Prime Minister - what will he do to prevent EU commissioners from getting mixed up in Serbia's internal processes? The third issue concerns the famous, now cultivated from a long time ago, task force to combat corruption and crime formed by Aleksandar Vukic, as vice president of some of the previous governments. What about the work of that task force? What about fighting crime and corruption? Why doesn't this task force exist anymore? What about 24 controversial privatisations? And why, then, was this task force that was expected to be abolished? In this regard, a very specific issue for both the minister of justice and others who are in charge, which is -- how many in Serbia's prisons currently have convicts who have been sentenced to years of imprisonment on the basis of a judicial verdict for the robbery and destruction of Serbia in the previous 26 years? I say there is not one, that there is not one that is currently on several years of imprisonment in Serbia on the basis of a strong verdict over Serbia's robbery over the past 26 years, which of course speaks of this false fight against crime and SNS corruption, but you deny me. So I'm interested in the minister of justice telling me how many of those you've sent to prison and who are now on years of imprisonment for robbing Serbia. Is it zero, is it one, is there more? The next thing that is of great interest to the citizens of Serbia is a question for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic -- when will he resign as head of the Security Service Coordination Bureau in Serbia? Aleksandar Vukic, head of the Security Service Co-ordination Bureau, did not protect Alexander Vukic as Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, which was also illogical. I'm asking him in this regard a sub-question - in which country in the world is the Prime Minister and the head of all intelligence and general security services in the country? Let us give an example in which state, except perhaps in North Korea, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia is the head of all intelligence services? Maybe in the Vatican, yeah. What is an extremely important issue, also for the Prime Minister, is that we are provided 650 SNS membership papers for judges who have joined the SNS in due time, and were then elected to judicial functions, and we have never seen them stop being members of the SNS, get those 650 stamps, and see if they stopped being SNS members. Also, the foreign ministry question, do the citizens of Pakistan and Afghanistan enter without visas to Serbia and who tolerate and for what? In the end, the topical question regarding edifices and pensioners – why are they treated as social cases and given some ridiculous compensation now, while they were actually deprived of salaries and pensions during the previous period? Why don't they get their salaries and pensions back and make up for it?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6354	Thank you, MP. I have a problem with these issues addressed to the judicial authorities. We cannot ask them such questions, and the minister of justice is not in charge of judicial proceedings.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6355	Who's in charge?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6356	The Justice Department controls the Justice Department, doesn't control the judges. Parliament can't question them.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6357	Is he in control of the prisons?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6358	He can't.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6359	How can he not?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6360	He can't ask a question. You need to rephrase for next time. That's the pressure on the judiciary. We can't ask them what court decisions they make, whether they judge, at what speed they judge.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6361	That's not what I asked. You didn't hear me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6362	You can't ask the Minister of Justice that. The minister of justice cannot question judges – come on, come on, faster and more.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6363	I asked how many judicial verdicts...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6364	I'm sorry, but I can't pass that on.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6365	Right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6366	I'll ask you another time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6367	What do you say to me? I didn't ask you anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6368	There'll be another time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6369	I didn't ask you anything. What do you say to me?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6370	Okay. Thank you, MP. I've got a session to run. You may find out in about 20 years, if you're persistent, but I have a session to run.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6371	Who's defending you? I really don't understand you. Which you answer to a question that wasn't asked to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6372	I can't pass, and I can't hold on to you. The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6373	Thank you, Chairman. We at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia these days are discussing a very important law, preventing domestic violence and within the framework of the law, in the draft bill of the law, the aim is to introduce urgent measures, introduce stricter penalties, and all in order to prevent black statistics in this area. However, I find another area very important that we must regulate legally, which is the area of peer violence. The Committee for the Rights of the Child at a session held on 2 February 2016 made a decision and made a request to the competent ministries, in particular the Ministry of Education and Science and the Ministry of Justice, to form a working group whose aim is to adopt and draft a new law on peer violence. The draft law in the basic version of Dr Dragana Djoric presented it at a session of the Committee on the Rights of the Child and was handed over to the competent ministries in the draft. My question is being referred to by the Minister of Education and the Minister of Justice with the aim of giving information – has the task force been formed so far and how long has this law been reached? The proposal to change current and future legislation in the area of prevention and repression towards peer violence in primary and secondary schools, as well as preschool institutions, therefore, as I have said on the Committee on the Rights of the Child. In the last 15 days, we've been faced with increased school incidents. My opinion is that the state has no solution to this question and no matter what video surveillance is being introduced in all schools, police officers, all schools from the Ministry of Education have rules for implementing and controlling educational and disciplinary measures in this area, but without so-called. Alexa's law, which resembles the tragically injured boy Alex Jankovic in 2011. In years whose parents have given consent to present this bill, I believe that this area cannot be properly solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6374	The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6375	Dear President, I would like to take the opportunity first to congratulate all the Novosads, the mayor of Novi Sad, all the inhabitants of our Serbia, because yesterday the city of Novi Sad won in Varna as the European capital of youth. It's another great meaning for the city of Novi Sad. Before that he won as the city's most European capital of culture. It's very important to all of us. Once again, I congratulate Mayor Vukevic and all Novosadjan and all Serbia on their success. This will mean a lot to both the Novosadians and the whole of Serbia. It is my wish that the city of Nis will become the best city for economy and entrepreneurship in the coming period. On the other hand, I'd like to ask a few questions. The first question is the Ministry of Transport and Construction, Minister Zorani, and regarding the airport in Nis "Constantin Veli" – will continue to invest and help modernize the airport, because we are witnessing that the airport is in a large expansion, a large number of passengers are coming to Nis, who will come to Svrljig and Bela Palank and Kljažvac, in all of southeastern Serbia, to come touristic. I would ask the minister if she will continue to invest in a airport that is very important for Southeast Serbia. The second question is addressed to the Ways of Serbia and can also be addressed to the Ministry of Transport – will the next year end the road to Stara Planina, which goes from Svrlig to Stara Planina? That's five miles long? Another question from the same ministry – will it be entered into the process of building the same regional road from Berisha, it is a village in Srlig towards the White Palanca? We are witnessing that Bela Palanka is a municipality as well as a Srljig that has a future for the development of agriculture, for the development of tourism, and it is very important that this part of the road is completed, reconstructed and that we can connect both the White Palanka and the Svrljig and thus bring more people to invest in both Svrljig and the White Palank, and that we can thus recover those two of our municipalities. Another question is about the Ministry of Transport – will it be possible to invest in the period coming next year and build part of the road from Svrlig towards Sokobanja? I repeat that Sokobanja is one of the most beautiful spas in Serbia that has a future and needs much more investment. This part of the road would be important both for Sokobanja and Svrlig, because that way we could attract a much larger number of tourists who come to Nis via the airport. I would like to ask another question to the MUP – whether it will be possible to invest in the next year and move the police station to Srlig, because the building is in the process of restitution. We have the possibility, because the Department of Justice gave the building the opportunity to move the police station into the building from where the court was removed. It's also the best way for citizens of Srlig, the building has its own owner and that police officers can do their job in that building. I would also like to ask RFZO – do agricultural insurance companies have the right to a disability pension when something as bad as working relationships happens to them? I'm sure farmers have the right to a disability pension, but I'd like to get an official response from the RFZO. As far as agriculture is concerned, I would like to know and this is the question of the Ministry of Agriculture – will it be possible to help cooperatives through investments in the economy and to enable and help agriculture through cooperatives? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6376	Thank you. The word is Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6377	Ladies and gentlemen of the People, I ask the question of Minister Zorana Mihajlović – how long will the ministry at which it is headed act on its own, cause unrest in society, endanger those social entities that expect state aid, and not alienation in basic life affairs? The Serbian Radical Party, or our activists and sympathisers, has already four times prevented the destruction of a family home that refugees from Republika Srpska raised on Ledin, on their country, did not threaten anyone, and could not get permission because there is no detailed urban plan yet. We see that there is now a new affair in Novi Pazar, who is moving it, Zorana Mihajlovic? What does he want? He wants to tear down an Islamic community facility in Novi Pazar. Why? The facility is owned by the Islamic religious community. It expands from some of its needs, does not endanger anyone else, and it is now the most impediment to collapse. While on the other hand we have the largest usurper in Serbia, Tomislav Nikolic, who has raised three houses on the banks of the Sava River in New Belgrade, in a protected belt where no construction is allowed, raised on the state land and is not the most likely to be destroyed, but rather haunts the refugee poverty here, and in Novi Pazar, the public can only cause serious consequences, and the state does not suffer any damage if the Islamic community on its own country, even without permission, raises an object. Why would it be so difficult for the whole country to run a campaign like this? So, I'm not defending anyone, Meho Omerovic, don't laugh, I'm in principle performing. It's principled that there should be criteria. If there are a million illegally raised buildings in Serbia, a list of priorities must be made, not a minister arbitraryly to bring down refugees, here to the Islamic community in order to make a disturbance in a otherwise complex social environment, and most likely to destroy the illegal objects of the President of the Republic, it does not occur to her. It must not be done and it is a major problem for the state, when the minister acts in such a way as to do what officials at lower levels of government, including local self-government. So, the President of the Republic is protected as a holy cow, no one must touch his house, he can make himself and the bridge privately across the Sava River, why not? Here, he passed the exam for the captain of deep sailing, and he and his sons, I hear they took those permits from him, is it Natasha? Why don't you take a dock, make a harbor outside your houses? (Ljubisa Stojmirovic, from the post: He is the president, and you would if he were president. I) When I'm president, it'll be all different. Secondly, I'm not gonna be president like this one of yours who had a fake college degree. So I insist on an urgent response from Minister Mihajlovic. What Tomislav Nikolic's mentor throws away, I would ask him one question – how many scientific works has Tomislav Nikolic written and when will Tomislav Nikolic defend his doctorate? I'd like to attend that defense. (Ljubisa Stojmirovic, from the place: Don't ask me a question now. I can't answer that. I have the right to ask a question of my choice and to answer it in writing.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6378	Comrade Stojmirovic, you have no right to a replica. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6379	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to ask the question of Deputy Prime Minister Zorana Mihajlovic, who also performs in addition to various other functions as head of the Co-ordination Body for Gender Equality. This issue was prompted by a headline in the newspaper that women in Serbia work free of charge from November 23rd to the end of the year. It is about statistics and analysis of how much women are less paid than men in European countries, and according to the statistics, Serbia is 10th in place of 40 countries analysed. The best relationship is in Slovenia, where almost 98% of the salary the average men receive is women, and the worst in Bosnia and Herzegovina. My question to the Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Mihajlovic, is – what are the measures of the Serbian state to improve this statistics? In Iceland, where, by these criteria, worse than in Serbia, on November 1st, there was a statistical day when women should stop working to be paid as men, women left their jobs, gathered in the centre of Rakejavik to protest this, seeking more active government measures to change these statistics. And because we may not be like some other statistics at the bottom of the European list, we should not be satisfied and we feel that if there is already such a body in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, concrete measures are also needed. As an example of how these problems are solved in countries, I will set an example for Germany, which last year, for example, passed a 30% commitment law on women's participation in large company boards. In case there's no percentage, they pay the dragon's fines. In Norway, the situation is such that the law was introduced in 2003 and already in 2008, after five years of its application, the percentage of women in the governing bodies has been raised to over 40% and this model has either been applied or planned to apply by many other EU countries. My question is: does Serbia intend to introduce such measures? Today, when we look at statistics, in leading places, if we look at only public enterprises, I think that the percentage below 10% of women who manage public enterprises and without politics, without concrete measures, will not change the situation. I hope that we will get from Minister Mihajlović, not only me but all of us, the answer, and besides that answer, of course, also concrete measures through changes to the law that we will adopt here as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6380	The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6381	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen, respected citizens, the first question goes to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia – why was he attending a private conference of the Clinton Family Foundation as Prime Minister? Since it was a private foundation and it was a pre-election campaign in America, what was the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia doing at the Clinton private conference? The second issue, US media reported that the government of the Republic of Serbia paid two million dollars for a meeting that Hilary Clinton was to organise between the Prime Minister, the President of the Republic and the President of the United States, Obama. A question for the Prime Minister – is this true? The second issue is for the president of the Republika Srpska Assembly. The "Enough" movement filed a constitutional appeal a few days ago for violation of the rights declared and guaranteed by the Constitution, which were caused by acts of action and inaction by the chairman, the president of the Mayan Assembly, Gojkovic and Vice President Veroljub Arsic. I'll read you part of the constitutional appeal. These are the stenograms from the National Assembly session – in the words of Alexander Vukic – you spoke nonsense, literally nonsense, something that is impossible for anyone to understand, who then spoke directly to the president of the Parliament group "Enough was enough", which is strictly forbidden, in words – why, because he did not even read it, President Maja Gojkovic not only allowed the right to reply, but she observed – no insult was brought to your account, none of the only. This is a stenogram. Then, MP Marijan Risticevic continued to insult the parliamentary group with words after his mandate – they never had enough, I was sick of these from never having enough of the abuse of waiters and cooks. I don't think he reads anything longer than a menu in this assembly, which has turned Americans over for a million dollars. He made his peace, godfather and family, and in fact, the whole 20-minute speech dedicated itself to the most cruel insult of the parliamentary group. President Maja Gojkovic was particularly excited, not only did she not warn the MP, but she laughed and supported this speech in the public view, which is clearly seen in the accompanying video. During the same session, Vice President Veroljub Arsic said that on the words of Sasa Radulovic to allow him the right to reply, because the prime minister at the expense of his parliamentary group said – I see that you do not know, yet invent, I understand your pathological hatred, can not stand to sit down, set up for the video, answered – we can not every time because of these, to say, things, to say that it is an insult, especially by making complete facts. The words of Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic – Mr Kradulovic – I understand his nervousness, perhaps tonight the cube went badly, from vampires trying to offend me because, unlike you, I am wise and will remain wise, sent to the Parliament Group "Enough was enough", anything that came upon the full approval of the chairman. Then the words of Aleksandar Martinovic – a known criminal, thief. The question for the President of the Assembly – is he still behind his words that this is not an insult and that he defines our insults? The MP group "Enough Has Been" is not concerned with insults. We haven't offended anyone yet in the congregation, nor will we. As for yesterday's events in the Assembly, after a completely inappropriate speech by Marijan Risticevic, where he showed pictures of naked women while we talked about violence against women, at the attempt of the Parliamentary Group and the MP Tatjana Macura to indicate that he was insulting the Rules of Procedure and that the chairman would have to react, had not responded, so we applauded that he was not reacting, and then we left the Assembly Hall, because we would not be present with this kind of behaviour in the National Assembly and to express our resistance and protest here, we were blocked by the way, or SNS MPs stood up and stood up in the corridors, so that we could not pass. Then they told stories about someone cursing their mother, how someone spit, which is completely false. The question for the president of the assembly is – on what grounds did she say that anyone from the Parliament group was cursing someone, that anyone was spitin' on someone, is it based on the words of Marijan Risticevic? We do not do such things, nor will we ever do things in the congregation. This is a serious violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. I'm asking the President of the Assembly to respond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6382	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6383	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I hope the previous speaker doesn't spit and swear on me today, as he did yesterday. My parliamentary question concerns the MUP, it is addressed to the MUP. Given that at one of the previous sessions, I asked the ministry a parliamentary question concerning abuses and the unconscious business of public institutions and companies whose founder of Vračar City Municipality, and as I received an answer from that ministry that the investigation is under way, or as they say, gathering information from police officials, I would like to take the opportunity to ask the same Ministry, the Ministry, whether this investigation also covered SROC's very suspicious business, so-called. The sports-recreative and educational center of Vračar, which has over the past period ended with a minus of 27 million dinars? Therefore, it is the period from 2014 to 2015, for these two years 27 million dinars, with the total losses in 2016 being 32 million dinars per 30 June 2016 to the state, suppliers and employees. So the loss for 2014 amounted to 15 million, a loss for 2015 of 12 million, and that is in total. In December 2015, Vračar's budget account was transferred by Vračar municipality of 7.2 million dinars, which were not purposely spent, and debts and interest growth and threatened to block the establishment's business account. The former director, I'm not going to name it, it's not particularly important, it didn't justify spending about half a million dinars on a budget account that she allegedly spent on some kind of boiler room. Aside from the catastrophic financial situation, a decision was made to buy a used container, which was paid 3.2 million dinars, with market value even three times lower. Despite the ban on employment, without consent, they were admitted into a working relationship, several people were admitted indefinitely, some former officials, guess which parties, DS etc. From the children's resort on Šuplja rock, private property was made by the former director and their closest associates. So, unconscious business, business abuses, harmful business, it's something that has become the manner of one party, a party that managed the Vračar municipality, and from all of this comes from, and if we rely on those 800 million debts in the public enterprise for Vračar's business space, then, from all of this, the theft of Vrakar was indeed epic proportions, huge proportions, and there is also an unprecedented boast of the former government. However, not as arrogant as this beer-loving man worked in Smederjevska Palanca, but there are differences in shades. So, I would also like to refer to a statement, which we could hear today from the city manager, that from December 1st, there will be a merger of business spaces on the territory of the City of Belgrade. I really want to commend this initiative, and I think that this is how the city will host, or manage the business premises in the city center, given that the biggest losses are, that the biggest debts have just been recorded in the town municipalities of Savski Venac, Stari Grad and Vračar. I don't have to stress which party was in power both on the Sava Venec and on Old Town and on Vracar all this time. Now, instead of the vindictors responding, instead of, if nothing else, at least hiding in the mouse holes of shame, which apparently don't own, what do they do? They organize some gatherings at the Kalenić market, some weekend gatherings, some kind of traveling circus, where, sometimes, a former bankruptcy manager, strays here, comes to the Kalenić market, and then the people make fun of him, the people make fun of him. Here, and last weekend, a former bankruptcy manager came to Kalenic's market, tried to make some kind of scandal, and the people figured it out. The citizens of Vrachar drove him off the Kalenic market. I'm sure he'll never think of coming to the Witch again. I'm sure we won't be seeing each other for a while. One last thing, don't drag us into a conflict in your party...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6384	Please ask the question through me, Minister of the Interior, just as the Rules of Procedure have been ordered. Please. Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Ambassador, Plasimir Stević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6385	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today I want to exercise my right to Article 287. Rules of Procedure and I request a notice and ask a parliamentary question to the Ministry of Economy and the KIM Office. It is a problem that more than a year of staff in JP "National Park Sar-Mountain", whose headquarters is in Brezovica, the municipality of Strpce, on KIM, and which is the founder of the Republic of Serbia. To remind myself, the National Park of Sar-Mountain was founded in 1986 to protect the natural values of rare species of plants, trees and animals. National parks are the highest form of nature and environment protection and have great importance for the management of natural resources. This national park extends to nearly 39,000 square miles. More than a year ago, the property of the National Park of Sar-planin, which is a public company for the management of a national park, founded by the Republic of Serbia, was usurped by Pristina's provisional institutions, unfortunately, as well as other assets of the Republic of Serbia at KIM. I note that since the uptake of the National Park property by Pristina, to this day this property is no one's concern. Everything is abandoned, no protection from avalanches, no sanitary cuttings, no buildings, no economic goods, no protected species. Employees, who were 23, lost their jobs, and six executives accused the Pristina authorities of allegedly usurping property and abuse of official position, viewing the park's property as their own. A group of accused workers are charged by Pristina and are obliged to respond to the court in Pristina, and a trial is expected before a Pristina court these days. Since there is a legal aid sector in the KIM Office, will the Office provide these innocent people with legal protection? Over the past year, employees have addressed all competent state authorities, institutions of the Republic of Serbia, and above all, the KIM Offices. Thus, all the authorities and institutions of our country are familiar with this problem and with the demands and requests of employees, especially those who are accused and seek the protection of the state in this unfair dispute. However, a permanent solution for employees, who have been without regular status for a year, without work and salary, has not yet been found. The KIM office has become involved in solving this problem, but the problem has not been solved yet. The economic and social situation of these people is extremely difficult. What it's like to live without a salary for a year anywhere, let alone a kiM, and have no other solution, can't even imagine. This problem has also led to the heat of economic, social, psychological and existential endurance of these people who feel abandoned by everyone who should help them. All these citizens who were born in KIM want to stay here. That's why they're fighting for their rights. They don't want to leave the Char Mountain and KIM. For these reasons, the state needs to find a permanent solution to their problem. On that point, I'd like to ask the Minister of Industry and the KIM Office. Is there a possibility that the problem of employees in the National Park of Sar-Mountains can be solved, especially the problem of those employees who are unjustly accused before a Pristina court? What measures and activities will be taken in this regard by the competent authorities of the Republic of Serbia, who is the founder of the public enterprise for managing the "National Park of Sar-Mountain"? So employees rightly expect their problem to be solved permanently, efficiently, and quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6386	Thank you. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented today from attending the next Members of the People's Republic of Dr. Vladimir Orlic, Aleksandra Maletic and Zoran Radojić. We continue our work and move on to a unique search of the Fifth agenda points – a proposal for a decision on the election of the president and members of the Committee on Cards of Values You have received a proposal for a decision made by the Committee on Finance, the Republic Budget and the control of the spending of public funds. I ask the MPs' groups, unless they've already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the proposal's representative, MP Dr Aleksandra Tomic, chairman of the Finance Committee, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds want the word? The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6387	Thank you, Chairman. The President-in-Office, honourable fellow Members, after the constitution of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, we found on the Committee that the term of office of 14 July 2011 practically expired for all members of the Council and the President of the Securities Commission. On the basis of Article 245, the Committee sent a letter to all parliamentary groups at that session, under the Capital Market Act, to submit proposals by 29 July 2016 and to the following parliamentary groups: SNS, SPS, SDPS, DJB, Dveri and DS. On August 5th, complete documentation required to be delivered, in addition to the biography and the work plan, of future work for the selection of members of the Commission Council and of the president, was submitted by candidates with a request for acceptance of the candidacy and the complete material was entered into the e-parliament data on 5 August. So he was practically at the presentation and opportunity of all MPs, not just the members of the Committee, for insight. On August 15th, we were informed that the candidate DS Mr. Srboslav Antic gave up practically from the candidacy, in writing form, and in accordance with Article 203. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of Serbia, paragraph 3, we scheduled a session of the Committee on 18 August, where we were obliged to conduct an interview with all other candidates who had practically remained on the list, who had submitted their bids. After a conversation with all the candidates and an insight into all the material that has been delivered, the Committee has practically declared that each candidate is individually. What was at all the focus of all the issues is - how to revive the capital market, how to practically revive in general and formulate some new concept of work by the Commission in general for securities of value, how to speed up regional and international co-operation, how to go practically into meeting European integrations, how to restore the trust of all participants in the capital market, self-control of the regulatory body, then change the laws necessary in certain parts, then co-operation with other bodies that relate not only to the Securities Commission, but also to the judiciary itself, in co-operation with the Finance Committee, then the desire to have the legislative framework that exists and the interest of the Paper Commission to participate in writing certain legislative proposals, as well as how to define it. But at the end of the day, we also considered the relevance of the Committee members, the expertise of the people who came to the interview. What has to be said is that, on the basis of the vote individually on all candidates, the Committee has practically sent this material that you received in writing, together with all the biographies of the candidates, it is that we propose for the president of the Committee on Securities, Prof. Dr. Predrag Dedeic, and for the members of the Council, Zarko Milicevic, former Commission President, Vladislav Stankovic, Mirjan Ivosevic and Mr. Mark Jankovic. Now I'd like to say more about the biographies of these candidates that are proposed. Prof. Dr. Predrag Dedeic is 57 years old, graduated, mastered and graduated from Law School. In addition to his active knowledge of English, he has worked in the "Economy Bureau" as a legal adviser and director of ICT Legal, a consulting, legal and financial company since 2005. He has been a professor at the Faculty of Agriculture since 2005 and an extraordinary professor at the Belgrade Banking Academy. In addition to the lecture he gave abroad, the president is practically the Institute for Canadian Studies. He's a visiting professor at colleges in Vancouver, Seville and Toronto. He's done a lot of work in this area, along with records of value, corporate governance. When we talk about a proposal to elect members of the Securities Commission, when we talk, about Mr. Zark Milicevic, former president of the Securities Commission, it should be said that he has been practically here since 2015 and that he is 39 years old, that he has a Faculty of Economics, that he was appointed president in October last year, and that he moved from the Ministry of Finance, as a member of the country's Financial Stability Committee. Apart from Mr. Zarko Milicevic, the candidates are Vladislav Stankovic, who was also a member of the Securities Commission. Mr. Vladislav Stankovic is 44 years old, specialized and graduated from Law School. He completed all courses in the area of financial markets. He participated in several expert meetings in the field of securities of value, and otherwise began with the knowledge of trainees in the District and Trade Court, moved to the Committee on Securities of Values and carried out various tasks in the Commission's Supervisory Department. In addition to these two candidates, Mrs Mirjana Ivosevic is also a member of the former Council of the Commission, which is now a member of the Commission, is 56 years old. She has been employed by the Commission since 2003 and has worked in banking for 18 years before. It is very committed and indeed to the work relating to information technologies and control of information data related to securities of value has begun its work in the Commission, so that all the confidential tasks that the President of the Commission has ordered the members of the Council in the sectoral areas of Ms Ivosevic has been carried out. In the end, we have one candidate, who I think has, in a certain way, made us happy because, as a candidate who is not a member of the Securities Committee, a young man of 34 years, who ended up with the highest grades, showed his expertise in the field of paper of value from the commercial aspect, from the stock market itself, as the main broker in the Credit-Stred Group. The consultant has been in several companies about investing in securities of value, and has performed factoring, risk management, as well as the director of the stock company "Centrom". What he showed in the interview itself is that you need fresh blood from a single institution like this and that as such you really should give a great contribution to a whole new concept on this team. What you need to say when it comes to interviewing yourself for these five candidates, it's that Prof. Dedeic, as president, has, in fact, defined us somewhere to change practically the proposal we made as a parliamentary group on July 29th because he is a professor. Dedeic was a candidate for a council member. After the interviews we had and his presentation, we defined ourselves, in agreement and with certain coalition partners, through which they essentially wanted to propose professor. Dedeic as his candidates for a responsible place such as the President of the Commission. But what we have heard from him is that it has a concept of how to achieve a single shift in the work of the General Securities Commission because it is obviously a need, given that the securities market in Serbia is at all too little and very low capacity and therefore it is necessary to implement one reorganisation both outside and inside in the work of this one institution that corresponds to parliament. What's important is to say that somewhere the Finance Committee has shown our willingness to change these things together. What must be the first task and the Commission when we are elected as a committee and MPs, is to discuss a new law. Second, the organisation of the Commission itself by the plan and programme of Prof. Dedejica, as he presented it to us, shows above all that his vision of changing within the house, through systematicisation, should be given a greater focus to the secretary of this commission who is now only part of certain professional services, which should be in a certain way really what according to the standards of all developed countries that have developed securities markets of value. But what he also pointed out is that special focus and attention must be addressed to the protection of small shareholders. Through the promotion of the market, the need for this plan has also been understood, and this was later said by other candidates, that the Commission should be efficient and operational, but that certain new mechanisms such as the internal audit mechanism within the Commission itself should also be put in place, and then the supervisory sector, where one of the two key functions of the Commission is realised, should practically be brought back to life at the level it deserves. In addition to the part relating to the work of the Commission itself on the outside and when we talk about co-operation in the regional capital market and when we talk about the international part, a very important factor, i.e. the role played in general by the relationship with the media, i.e. the so-called media. The PR service that has, of course, not yet existed, but is a very important part of the information part of the presentation of the Commission itself, such as the site, the introduction of modern technologies and quality co-operation with the judiciary, which we essentially insisted on, as well as the quality of regulation and supervision. First of all, investor protection is one of the key factors that I think everyone here has come to, and the disputes that exist by Professor Dedeic is in his proposal that one centre for the so-called Centre should be formed. mediation, or peaceful dispute resolution, just so that the courts don't bury themselves with such actions. It is very important that there is this continuity of control all the time and that there is simply a way that people who are interested in this area will be certified at all. Professor Dedeic has shown his exposure at all that there is one vision in which it has not been considered at all, as one way of working of the Securities Commission, and that is what he was essentially nominated somewhere to propose for the president of this commission, given that changes since 2011, especially when it comes to this institution, and especially what is called the regulatory and independent body that is in the power of the Assembly. In addition to the interview that we conducted with Mrs Mirjana Ivosevic, who spoke about European integrations and Chapter 9 of the EU, it is very important to say that the commitment was to understand that Mr. Zarko Milicevic's great assistance, needed in all of this, as former president, because in 2015, the commission was dealing with the profits of 52 million dinars and paid half of it, practically, to the Serbian budget, which showed essentially that it really worked in the best possible way in the given circumstances. These circumstances speak of a low level of traffic on the stock market. If you compare the year 2007 when the economic crisis and the economic crisis itself were practically, the value charter was in some volume of two billion euros, and when we talk about 2015, this volume of practical traffic is 185m euros, then we are talking about that the securities market is too shallow, slow, inadequate and that it is necessary to change a lot. Therefore, the part relating to European integration is very important for us and Mrs Mirjana Ivosevic, as a candidate for the Council list is a woman who has followed these European integrations and negotiations for Chapter 9 and for the Commission employee since 2003, and has had an exceptional experience from 18 years earlier in the banking sector in work in Beobaca. Mr. Zarko Milicevic, we really care about his support in the work of the council, precisely because he has succeeded from 2015 until today to maintain this work of the Commission, that it works despite all the problems that exist on the capital market. Mr. Vladislav Stankovic, when we talk about his expertise at all, we can say that since 1999 he has been working in the Commission and that surely his help in all the changes that they try to make when we talk about, in general, the functioning of the Securities Commission, will be of great importance. So, in the end, when we resumed as a committee and as proposings, we came to some common conclusion that a good solution is to remain one part of the council that existed and functioned before and simply select new members who will represent one new, fresh blood and who will try to launch practically new processes when it comes to securities of value. We think that these suggestions that have been given to you in writing, on behalf of the promoter, are the best solution of all who were practically candidates with whom we had an interview. What to say is that the most complete picture was given through these five candidates, that each of the candidates had some specificity, someone had previously been a member of the council, someone had a different vision of how the commission should look, and some candidates felt that their experience from the past in the banking sector was running them for such a place that could make some changes when it comes to this area. I would also like to say that the candidates proposed by the other parties are Zorica Krnjević Miskovic, Mr Dusan Bajac, Mr Aleksandar Zinajic, Mr Dejan Tufegdzic and Mrs Jelica Marjanovic. What we are about to do when it comes to this area is set up certain new instruments and new mechanisms that should essentially trigger the capital market, the securities market of value. We've opened up a lot of problems on the board. I think that discussion may be too professional when we talk here at the tide, but if there is a need and there are details in this discussion, I am prepared on behalf of the promoter to answer all questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6388	The word has a National MP, Milorad Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6389	Thank you, President. President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we may have no great task of selecting the Committee for Securities of Value, but I would still speak a little more broadly. Why? It's about one important commission, one committee that's independent, which is independent, and I'd talk a little bit about independent bodies. We're simply at the tide very little discussing it. Often, we discuss these institutions with independent committees, agencies, debate or not on committees, and rarely when we have a chance to discuss here within the prey. That's why I'd say something about it. Mrs. Aleksandra Tomic, the chairman of the Finance Committee has given a very detailed procedure as we have reached these candidates but I would say one more thing. We have a lot of independent and independent agencies, commissions, and other institutions. Somehow that understanding of independence means that we can't do anything, how they respect the Constitution and the laws, just think of ourselves as untouchable. One such committee has just been this Securities Committee. Why do I say that? Well, because we were in a situation where it took us two reports, two years, to carry out the shift of one candidate, one president who didn't work in accordance with the law, claiming he was independent and we don't have the right to talk about what he's doing and how he's doing. The Finance Committee also paid a lot of attention to this commission in the previous term. They'll be committed in the next term, and also in all those agencies that we're in charge of. I stress this because, often in public, an image is created that independent institutions are not allowed to work. I must say that the SDPS will always support the work of independent institutions, agencies and commissions but only if they work in accordance with the law, in accordance with the Constitution and in accordance with their powers. Likewise, we, as MPs, committees in charge, have the right to give an opinion on their work based on the report they are reporting to us, and this must be our daily activity. It would also be good to talk about it often at the tide, because we would come up with some things that are very important to us. There is no developed democratic society unless there is good and quality work for independent institutions. We must keep stressing this, but these institutions must work in accordance with the law and can also work in accordance with the Constitution. There's something else I want to say. The Securities Commission is quite specific. This requires special knowledge, special experience and long-term work on securities of value and other financial instruments. It's hard to find quality people who have a long experience, who work a lot in this area and it's very good that after a wide debate, the talks with the candidates, we came, in my opinion, to a good solution. President of the Commission, Prof. Dedeic, of whom there have been many words today, is indeed an excellent expert. The Social Democratic Party wanted to propose it, but due to some procedures we failed to do so, but we are still glad that he was elected president and that is very good, because I think he will reverse the Commission's work, because the Commission did not feel it and its work on Serbia's financial market. Why do I say that? Investors are looking for security. Without the good work of the Commission, we have no security, and we are the country that constantly invites investors and we want them to work in our country to invest. Secondly, we have also selected young professional staff, therefore, non-political personnel, and are not tied to any political party. I must also point out that we are a young man who worked in the private sector, who has shown a great desire to work in this Commission, when I asked him a question – and why from a decent salary comes on a small salary, he said he wants to challenge, wants to change the situation in this area. That's what's good. Of course, I have to be honest that we have suggested a candidate, too, has not passed, but I take that as a message from the SNS that he wants to take full responsibility in this area for a simple reason, wants to change the situation in that area, to be better and better. They're the strongest party, they have the right, and I hope there will be a change in that regard. I also want to point out that this self-financing committee has come into a situation that has to take funds from the budget, which is very bad. We have institutions that have to work, that have to be on the market, and this institution has opportunities. The fact itself, the redundancy of the budget can go precisely by doing better and better and changing the financial instruments market for which economists say is underdeveloped and quite shallow in Serbia. Perhaps in these reform procedures we need to make a bigger step, and I hope that the Finance Committee, which has been very closely monitoring the work of this committee and other committees, will work very quickly so that it will be able to report that this commission has achieved good results in its work. That is why I support these changes, and the SDPS will vote in the voting day for the candidates who are proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6390	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6391	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Members, I have listened carefully to the presentation of the president of the Committee, who has given us quite a detailed statement on how the Committee has reached these candidates. The only thing I haven't been able to hear is the candidates we're discussing today, the committee suggested, whose initial proposal were the parties? We've heard that some of the ruling coalitions have proposed candidates, some opposition parties, but I don't know, these candidates from which parties are from, from which party came the proposal? (Zoran Krasic, from the place: SNS. I guess, but it would be our turn to hear it here, not to just go around it. I find it very interesting here now, some of the things we have heard in the discussion so far, it has been said – the Committee has so far followed the work of the Commission, the Finance Committee. So, how did the Committee monitor the work of the Commission and come to the situation that on July 14th of this year, the day of the five-year term, it finds that the five-year term has expired? He was surprised by the Committee, which reportedly follows the Commission's work actively and then finds out that the term of office had ceased that day and is moving towards the election procedure. What was he waiting for until that moment, except for the election? Of course, you'll say - elections. There were elections, but the election's been called, I don't think I know which March. What was the Committee doing before that March 7th? He knew that the mandate would expire in July and knew how long this election process should last, and it was not accelerated. Here, this proposal came at the end of August from the Committee. It's November 17th. How do we want to show investors that we're a serious state, that we have serious institutions, if there's no commission for five, six months? How do we think we should send this message if we never adopted this proposal from the Commission on the 2016 Financial Plan, which came on 27 November last year? What financial plan has the Commission been working on throughout 2016? And how did the Financial Committee follow the Commission's work if the commission is down in these nine months, if, as the previous colleague said, it must borrow money from the budget? How did that happen? The financial plan is -- 120 million dinars will be made by the Commission, and will spend 120 million. How come she only makes 30 million if the board follows that, like you say she's following? The fact is, he's not following. The fact is, you don't follow and you want to build a party body from this commission. Then we hear the argument – SNS is the biggest party, so he wants to take responsibility. What responsibility are you taking? Here, I read the candidate's biographies. I, from the biography of the candidate for president, Mr. Dedeic, did not find any condition under the law, which is five years of working experience gained in performing business in relation to securities of value in the Republic or abroad. So this is where we see an academic career. The man is a lecturer at various universities, but where did he get the experience of working with securities of value? In other candidates you have, you can see where they worked, what institutions, whether it was the Committee on Papers from value to date or some other institution. Professor Dedeic doesn't say anything about any experience, but I can see that the Committee has been fascinated by his proposals that he will change everything and that this trend that we have heard, it's good that it's not always coming, to say, by the opposition, so that we can't discuss it normally. If there's 11 times less traffic on the Belgrade Stock Exchange today, after seven, eight years, what are we going to change, how are we going to change that? This choice of members, presidents and members of the Securities Commission itself will not change that. Some changes to the law are necessary. When they're gonna happen, we don't know. We hear here and there, there was almost some text where Minister Vujovic said and we heard today, we'll all agree that we need a developed stock exchange for investment, but like he said there, we missed many trains. The way we choose this today doesn't give us any hope and confidence that we finally catch, like, jump into that train's last car. I'm afraid that train has moved so far that we can't reach it again and that if we choose these members today, they'll never get to that train. We keep hearing about investments, about growth, but when we look at cases like this, concrete numbers, we see that something doesn't match that pink picture that we see from day to day through the media and from members of the government, from the president to the last member of the government and here in parliament. When this is the point of the agenda, then we just listen to announcements and good wishes – we'll do better, we should do this, we should do this. I'm sorry I didn't get a chance to hear what it was, Professor. Dedejic said he was so fascinated by the board members that they changed the proposal for the president of the commission. Was he really so convincing or the fact that Mr. Martinovic came on board, so he whispered something there, so it affected the change? I don't know. I'm sorry I couldn't see that exposure, because somehow I believe that Mr. Martinovic's whisper is stronger than anything anyone in this assembly can say.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6392	I believe so, but a little bit about the candidate.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6393	Well, we saw that yesterday. You believe in him, not what you saw.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6394	That's right. I trust you, too, but I want to hear a little bit about the candidate, let me see, you might hesitate me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6395	I doubt it, unless Mr. Martinovic whispers something to you, I doubt anything will sway you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6396	He wants to whisper to me, he's my friend.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6397	You haven't shown up yet. In any case, I think, that we could conclude this discussion and approach the election, we deserve some more answers. So, these candidates, in front of which parties are they, from which party were they proposed? I doubt any of the proposed proposals are by any opposition party, and apparently not all parties from the ruling coalition either. It would be good to conclude that it's taking responsibility. I wish the SNS would finally take responsibility. For the fifth year you are in power, and for all that is wrong in this country, you blame some before you, and now you go to Tito. I think it's time for you to take responsibility for what you're doing, stop lying to Serbian citizens, deceive them and face the results of your work. We thus propose the composition of the Securities Commission, from the president to its members, cannot support and remain a small hope, but I try to keep things positive in life, that the Commission will succeed in strengthening the Belgrade Stock Exchange and business in Serbia, that foreign investors will indeed come. I'm telling you, with these messages that we're sending, with this relationship to the institutions, the way Parliament is monitoring their work, and I've given you concrete examples of us not giving consent to this year's financial business plan, of the fact that five months ago, and we're just discussing today, I don't see that the ruling majority is going to really change that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6398	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6399	Here to answer certain questions that have been raised here, since when there are no arguments then we say – candidates are party because they joined the political parties' parliamentary clubs, but I will ask you then – which parties have been registered by candidates who have been since 2011, and we left them as professional people? I don't really know the answer to that question. Here, I'll read the candidates. So, professor Dr Predrag Dedejic, Zarko Milicevic, Vladislav Stankovic, Mirjana Ivosevic, Marko Jankovic are SNS candidates. Mr. Srboljub Antic, who withdrew his candidacy, is a DS candidate. Zorica Krnjević Miskovic is an SPS candidate. Mr. Dusan Bajec is a candidate for the Social Democratic Party of Serbia. Aleksandar Zinajic and Dejan Tufegdzic are candidates enough. Jelica Marjanovic is a candidate for Dveri. I know a lot of other candidates who were supposed to file for their candidacy, but they didn't want any MP clubs running for office. That's what I'm trying to tell you. So, first of all, the procedure for the Commission's election in general goes when their term of office expires, and they run out of mandate on July 14th. Do you think that we should replace them six months earlier and say, "Now we will replace you, and we will choose new ones." I think it's normal, when someone, whether it's an independent institution, an agency, a commission, when the mandate expires, then enters the procedure of the next commission's election or the next member of the council. We are not the ones to be asked during the elections, therefore a new assembly of the Finance Committee has not yet been established to initiate the Commission's election procedure. Secondly, the question why are we on the agenda today, so we deliberately let this proposal go on a regular basis, because if you went to the ER, you'd say, "yeah, and now you're in a hurry, we're going to get an ambulance." Now suddenly it's no good even when there's a regular procedure of choice. So it came to the agenda when the laws came and the laws passed and we were able to put it on the agenda. Believe me, I've been alarming for a month that it really needs to come to the agenda, but there are no practical technical possibilities to come on the agenda. Secondly, when you talk about candidates, that they are party candidates, I will just tell you that professional people today, none of them, want to be party-declarated, that they are party members, and that was in your time, but somehow we have come to the conclusion that Mr Dusan Bajec, who has been a member of the Committee on Securities since 2001 until 2016, was a candidate of the DS, but is now proposed by the Social Democratic Party. So, what I'm saying is that it doesn't matter what a party is. On the basis of their expertise, people wanted to run through certain parliamentary groups, so Professor Predrag Dedejic came to run in front of the SNS. He talked to our colleagues before the Social Democratic Party. He went on vacation and couldn't get the paperwork. He came back and just came to the SNS Club to run. On that committee, we really talked to all the candidates in detail. There are, after all, members of the opposition and they can confirm it to you. You weren't your candidates, either, from your political party, weren't on that board. Each candidate was discussed in detail, aunts, asked questions extremely directly, from which motives you have in general to run for such a place, where you worked, where you were educated, as you can see in general an improvement in the work of the paper market of value, as you see the Commission's promotion. Why is the commission suddenly making so many losses, and why should it now ask for money from the budget, when in the previous year she was doing business with profit and she paid half the money from the budget? It means that many things are wrong, but they are not good from the time of privatisation when the stock market was 2 billion euros in 2007, and today for last year, it means 2015, 185m euros. So everyone here needs some way to help change these things in society. Therefore, do not switch to that certain personnel are exclusively personnel of certain political parties, when we talk about professional people. So we're talking about people who are members of the Commission and the Committee on Securities of Values. For many years, they've been working in that institution for a long time. Don't let it bring down the integrity of that institution, even though it doesn't work well. Obviously, the results aren't working well, but we're MPs here. They're in our jurisdiction. We need to essentially launch certain initiatives, change these things. Don't show the public that way and politicize what's not for politicisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6400	Thank you. Bosko Obradović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6401	Dear colleagues, I'd like to call on two things that we've been told here in an explanation that really seem very inspiring to me. First, we learned from the reasons that due to the departure of the parliamentary group of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, Rasim Ljajic on vacations, they did not run for Mr Dedejic because they were simply not there, and then the Serbian Progressive Party flew in and compensated for the absence of MPs from the ranks of the party, Rasim Ljajic. That's the first thing I understood from your explanation. The other thing that's the subject of my discussion, you've now used Mrs. Tomic, I think that's the essence of what I want to talk about on this agenda point, and that's how you said we don't crash them even though they're not doing well. Now, I'm asking the next question - has the so far Securities Commission done well? The Serbian Progressive Party has been in power for five years. If the Securities Commission has done well, which you do not select all the same members of the Commission again and you say – just you people continue your work. If so far the members of the Securities Commission have done badly, which I now understand from Mrs Tomic's exposure, which you have not replaced for these five years by your rule of the Serbian Progressive Party. What does the law say... (Alexandra Tomic, from the post: He has a mandate. That's right, he's got a mandate, Mrs. Tomic, and now I'm gonna...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6402	MPs, you'll answer them. Get ready.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6403	That's right. You'll answer. Thank you, Chairman. Let's see what the law says. In your explanation it stands - Article 245. The Capital Market Act provides for the President and the members of the Committee for Charters to be elected and to resolve the National Assembly on a proposal from the Competent Working Body for the National Assembly's Finance Office, item. What does that mean? That means we're setting them up, and we can change them when we see they're not doing well, on whose suggestion? On a proposal from the Committee responsible for financial affairs. Who is the chairman of the Committee in charge of finance affairs and who controls the majority of the Committee? The ruling party, firstly the Serbian Progressive Party. Now it turns out that those who worked for five years at the place where they worked because you let them do bad things in that place where they worked badly. So, a very simple thing. If these people were doing good to leave them, if they were doing bad, the Serbian Progressive Party and the government in the previous five years was directly responsible for everything that the Securities Commission has done wrong over the past five years, because it has not initiated their shift through the Financial Affairs Board. I think it's math. There's no philosophy, there's no economy even. There's nothing. Pure logic. Pure math. When will the Serbian Progressive Party finally be responsible for its failures? So, gentlemen of the Progressives, face your responsibility after five years of authority and say we were wrong. We should have changed members of the Securities Committee earlier, but we didn't make it, we didn't know, we didn't know, we didn't know what I knew, we didn't know what we did. So don't play any games here. You are re-elected by two members of the Securities Commission, or you are proposing, you from the Authority. Žarko Milicevic, Vladislav Stankovic, if I understand correctly, you deny me. Were they members of this poor securities commission? They did. How can they again be members of a future good value paper commission if they have done bad work for the past five years? So, serious questions. I agree with you in one thing, and I'm going to argue with that now. It was bad work by the Securities Commission. She's one of the serious cancers of this society, only we should have replaced her five years ago, or you had the opportunity to replace her five times in the past five years and you haven't replaced her once, which is proof that you're the government of continuity on October 5th. The government of continuity with the Democratic Party, the government of the continuity of robbery privatisations, the destruction of domestic production, the destruction of domestic banking, the destruction of everything of domestic economic interest. That you're Dinkicians, thank you, colleague. That you're Dinkicians. After all, these days you have placed Dinkic's wife in an important place in the state apparatus. So, not only Dinkic, now the wider Dinkic family to take certain positions in the state. Great. So, I agree with you that this commission has worked badly. Here's why she was doing so badly. Because whenever it was meant to protect the interests of small shareholders, it was infallible to protect the interests of tycoons in Serbia. Whenever the tycoons in the famous process of the so-called forced ransom, when they had the opportunity to take over more than 90% of the low-priced capital, were practically forced to take from small shareholders, the Commission did not react. So, this commission, and this is a hot topic for you who are fake anti-corruption and tycoon fighters, you could prove yourself here, gentlemen, that you would stop the tycoons in Serbia. This Securities Commission could have stopped them. She didn't do it. You've nominated it, you've approved it, so you've protected the tycoons through this commission. And, they're yellow, it's not controversial, but you've continued what the yellow ones were doing before that. You have no right to say the Democratic Party now. What did you do differently? Here, this example - the Committee on Charters of Values is no different from the Democratic Party. You have kept the same Commission for five years from a period of previous power. So you agree with the Democratic Party's policy. You agree with the Democratic Party's staff. There's no idea difference between you and him, no political difference. Both of you are protecting Serbia's tycunisation. What is the role of this Privatisation Charter Commission? In various privatisations, in various monopolies won by foreign companies on our market. Would you like me to give you just one of my favorite examples, Croatian Agrokora? What did Croatia's Agrokor buy in Serbia? What is the control of Croatia's Agrokor? Let's put it in order: "Idea", "Roda", "Merkator", "Diamant", "Frikom". You think she reacted to the Securities Commission or the other one for protection against competition? There's no such thing. So, shut up, they let the Croatian tycoon, behind which the Croatian state, behind which the German banks stand, buy half the market in Serbia, buy half the company in Serbia, buys tens of thousands of national oraries in northern Serbia, i.e. AP Vojvodina, Serbia's Vojvodina, and so today the Croatian tycoon has a dominant impact on the market for agricultural products and trade in Serbia. Is it the Democratic Party's fault? Yeah. Has the Serbian Progressive Party done anything to protect the competition of domestic producers and to move on to Croatia's "Agrokora" monopoly? No, I don't. The Serbian Progressive Party has done nothing for five years. How many more decades of government do you gentlemen need to do something to protect domestic economic interests, to protect economic patriotism, to protect domestic businessmen from such unfair competition, from these monopolies, from these tycoons, from these foreign companies? 10/3MG/SM
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6404	It's okay. Would you kindly please come back on the subject? We have a specific theme. Please. I'll wait. I'll wait as long as you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6405	I'll be right back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6406	As long as you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6407	What do the candidates you're proposing now guarantee that anything will change? With what? Nice eyes. Some programs that don't write anything, some suggestions that don't stand for anything. Where did they write that they would work differently than the so far Securities Commission? Here's a quote for me, Mrs. Tomic, where. Great. Where and what will he do? What are they going to do differently? Will they continue to tolerate foreign currency debt? We have a billion euros in bonds and records that the state sells, directly questioning the functioning of our system. This unrealistic dinar course, this import lobby that destroys domestic production, etc. So, are they going to make a difference here? Will they perhaps mention the state not to do this borrowing in foreign currencies, that it does not endanger the financial stability of this system of ours, or maybe it will boost the stock market that died in Serbia. Here's what former Belgrade Stock Exchange Director Gordana Doprevic says, that two years ago in Serbia, the privatisation process was not used to build one of the key pillars of the market economy for the stock market. That there's no reasonable reason to stop the stock market from developing. If the state focuses on a more serious development of the capital market, it can start a new industry, new occupations, new jobs and economic opportunities, as well as alternative aspects of savings and financing. This would be of interest to me to hear from these distinguished candidates. One -- how are they going to start a new industry? Two -- how are they going to start new occupations? Under three -- how are they going to start new jobs? Under four -- how are they going to open up new economic opportunities? Under five – how will they force alternative visions of savings and financing? It's a serious program. When we hear that from the distinguished candidates or those who have run for office, which is undoubtedly power, we will be very happy to support the public new members of the Securities Commission, because we need this change. We think the previous commission was a bad one. We want a change, we want fresh blood, but excuse me, what is the proof that these candidates are fresh blood? Here we have candidates who have already been, two in the composition of the Securities Committee. Are they fresh blood? If they've done bad work so far by choosing them again? Maybe they're members of the SNS, which is close to the SNS, which they love and celebrate Alexander Vukic. I understand that. If that's their reference, then I understand. What is the conclusion, and what you did not say openly, and there is little reason not to say, you did not accept any candidate who came from the opposition ranks. Dot. It's okay, it's nothing to argue with. Look, there's nothing going on. Just say it. So, all the candidates proposed are candidates of the government. It's okay. Are you in charge? Yes, it is. Do you have a majority? Yes, you do. Can you place your people everywhere in Serbia? Yes, you can. But you'll answer. As I urge you to be responsible for these five years for how much you have allowed the poor Securities Commission to remain and do this job badly, and you could, through the competent Finance Affairs Committee, initiate their shift, Mrs Tomic, and you did not, you are directly responsible for the poor work of the Securities Commission. There was also a cute idea from MPs who spoke on behalf of Rasim Ljajic that we have staff who are moving from large salaries to small salaries because they have a desire to change something in the sector. And now you think there's someone in this room who believes in that fairy tale? So, I can believe that the motive for membership in this commission to get someone from a higher salary can only have someone who knows well that in this commission they will decide how to support the tycoons against small shareholders, how they will support large monopolies to take something else and, of course, get an adequate corrupt amount of funds. So that's a motive for whoever comes to this commission -- corruption. If he comes down from a large salary on a small salary, his motive is corruption. I advocate a whole other thing that these people, if they really work independently and do really work properly, have 10 times the salary and have the motive to work in this Securities Commission because it's an important commission, because it's a capital market regulator, because it cares about domestic economic interest because it protects economic patriotism. They need 10 times the salary. But, no, you're telling us a fairy tale about someone on a big salary coming to a small salary at the Securities Committee because he's a patriot? Well, who believes that story? It is clear to him that he is coming because the Securities Commission is giving him space for corrupt activities. I've listed to you what are corrupting actions. The protection of tycoons when they are being kidnapped at low prices by small shareholders, the protection of large monopolies such as Croatia's Agrokora, which buys half of Serbia, and no one reacts to a number of other things that I have talked about here with of course the absence of any creativity for what their main job is. What's their main job? State regulation of the capital market. The Dwarves stand for it. We are against the free market to understand each other, in such a way that everyone can do whatever they want against this country's interests. Oh, he can't. He can't. Croatia's Agrokor cannot buy in Serbia what it wants and what it wants. When the Dvori are wondering and deciding, they won't be able to do it. Because it is not the Serbian economic interest, it is the Croatian economic interest. This is the difference between the economic concept represented by Dvori and the neoliberal economic concept represented by Mladjan Dinkic, all DS candidates through a more recent history concluded with Aleksandra Vucic, the peak of October 5th and neoliberalism. Vukic is the largest Dinkician from October 5th to the day, the largest follower of non-liberal economic doctrine.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6408	Great, he's not running for this right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6409	And let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6410	Yeah, well, let's see what you think of them.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6411	Thank you. And let me get this straight. So neither did you convince me that this was an independent body. On the contrary, it is extremely dependent on the will of the ruling majority who chooses all these members. Please answer my question - why haven't you changed them so far if they've worked badly, and you've had five years and you've asked me why you're re-elected two members of the previous commission who's been working badly? These are serious questions, well, when you answer those questions, then we'll continue the discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6412	You want a replica? I don't understand. (Veroljub Arsic, from town: Yes. ) The word is Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6413	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if candidate Dveri of the Securities Commission knows as much as Bosko Obradovic better not to choose him. I've never heard of ignorance in my life. So, the Commission is a regulatory body, regulates the market of securities by law, read. The other thing is, it is not true that some of the members of the Commission have not been changed. I, as then chairman of the Finance Committee, forced the then president of the Commission to resign and another member. So much for the truth as the Commission did. Third thing, privatization of private companies. This is a new term in legislation. So he asks the question -- how could they sell Idea, Mercator, Rodic? You want to ban someone from buying private property? Well, you can't private it private. You are violating the UN Charter, people, not our Constitution, not the law, but the UN Charter. Let's move on, credits in foreign currencies. You've got the Securities Committee. Well, it has nothing to do with the securities market. So he says, "State securities of value," which is why he's not running a commission, he's running a central securities register. Learn the laws, people. The easiest way to get out and say – Alexander Vukic is not good, SNS is bad, so at least have an argument. These aren't arguments. This is a bunch of ignorance, ignorance and populism. So if that's what you think you're going to be doing politically, I don't see this long life as long as it's going to be this reunion. Start studying. It's a trade. Policymaking is a trade. The running of the state is a trade. It takes a lot of you to be a rookie. You're not even that yet.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6414	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6415	It's nice when a representative of the ruling party who is 20 years, 30 years old, how many years Mr. Arsic, a state official on government salaries and other options, teaches us lessons about work, learning, occupations, and I don't know what else and craft in particular. So I can understand that you don't like the economic policy of Dverry. You are the hostages of a neoliberal economic concept. You only know what Dinkic taught you. You don't know anything else. If the SNS knew what else, you would have done something other than what Dinkic was doing in these five years. I don't see why you're angry. Are you dinkish or not? If you are not Dinkish, stand up and say, "We are not Dinkite." We stand for a different economic policy and finally find out what your economic policy is. Let the Dwarry know that we are learning, that we are working, that we are making progress, that is undoubtedly happening. That's what Serbian citizens already see. It's all going well. It's going in a decisive direction. Don't worry about it. You worry about what you're in power. I think that we have said very precisely – that, as different state measures as the Securities Commission is of value as a regulatory body on the capital market. We will limit the monopoly of foreign companies in Serbia. We won't let them buy whatever they want and whatever they want in Serbia. Yeah, we won't let them. Yeah, we won't let them, should I say it one more time? Yeah, we won't let them, because it's not in our domestic economic interest. We will only do what is in the Serbian domestic economic interest. What kind of businessman could buy something in Croatia? Is that where your universal U.N. Declarations apply? Well, of course they don't, because Croats protect their domestic economic interests.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6416	Thank you. The word is made by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6417	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 107 has been injured. Here a question has been asked by a man who seems competent for all, that one candidate for the Committee of Papers from a private company has applied for the Committee on Securities of Values and has moved from a higher salary to a smaller one. I am now interested in how is it possible that Jasmina Vujic, of the University of Berkeley, who was in charge of the US military nuclear programme, so I assume from a high salary, came to Serbia to be the adviser of Bosko Obradovic, the great Serb, the largest Serb in the history of which the Serbian mother gave birth, and I am interested in which investor Bosko Obradovic brought it to Serbia? Alexander Vukic brought in a lot of investors from both the west and the east. We've reduced unemployment, we've got more investment than we've had all the time from October 5th to today. But I'm curious about which investor Bosko Obradovic brought in? To whom did Bosko Obradovic and Jasmina Vujic give bread in Serbia? Whose family did they make happy? The story here is that Veroljub Arsic, imagine Mrs Gojkovic, a 30-year-old state official. Well, that's the same lie, do you remember that Serb from Kosovo who said he voted for Vukic, and he was 115 years old. Now, just as that Serb from Kosovo was 115 years old and voted for Vukic, Veroljub Arsic is a state official for 30 years. Well, Veroljub Arsic is, in 1968, the Veroljub you were in? Well, he couldn't become a state official when he was 10. It may be possible for Bosca Obradovic, but Veroljub Arsic is not a state official for so long.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6418	Thank you, MP. I don't think I've hurt Article 107(1) - that the speaker is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. So, I can't censor what Bosko Obradovic said in the replica, nor do I have any knowledge, I do, but I can't interfere, because I know that Veroljub Arsic hasn't been a state official for 30 years, and I don't see what's terrible about someone receiving a state salary. I mean, we're taking it all right now, most of it here. Of course, the MP Bosko Obradovic receives it, and I don't see that it's a pejorative thing. I personally advocate that all MPs be employed here in order to be committed to work, but I'm in the minority, not working elsewhere, so they can stop by, but I really didn't hurt this article 107 because I didn't interfere with the discussion. Please don't vote on it. The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6419	Thank you. You've injured Article 103. Rules of Procedure, you have allowed within the framework of the breach of the Rules of Procedure that MP Martinovic speaks the line and explains things that have nothing to do with the violation of the Rules of Procedure. This seems constant, because when you allow a breach of the Rules of Procedure, allow a replica in the context of the infringement of the Rules of Procedure, then those to whom it applies, in this case Members of the Court, cannot respond, or there is no replica. Well, I'd like to ask you to respect Article 103 and interrupt the speaker if he actually uses a replica in the context of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6420	Okay, thank you. Ambassador Obradovic didn't answer, I didn't even stop him, I can't get him to do it. I can't pressure the MPs. Yeah, sure, sure, that's for you to plead. (Saša Radulovic, from the post: I want to vote on the injury of the Rules of Procedure. So it's on the record. What do you say? Injury of the Rules of Procedure. The People's Messenger has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6421	Thank you, Your Honor, I would like to appeal to Article 106, point 1, if it hadn't been for a fellow Martinovic to call, but this speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is being conducted. A little while ago, we were listening to the gentleman in question who was absolutely the least talked about this point, but he said something scary, and that's why I was thinking of Article 107 to call. You had to react, he said something terrifying that threatens the country's economic security. He announced he would ban privates from selling their private property. Are you aware of what he said? You would have lost the dispute in front of every international court. We would pay millions of dollars for such scandalous and insidious politics that the group would be leading. I ask you to react to the future, because this can really cause a conflict, that no one wants to invest in this country because of the legal and economic uncertainty that someone here is announcing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6422	Thank you. But I can't be a censor all the time, I'm really tired. There's no replica now. So, MPs agree that we should only talk about the agenda point. Milorad Mijatovic was the only one to speak only about the agenda point so far. Yeah, I'll give you a replica, yeah, sure. Now we're going to play a little bit of damage to the Rules of Procedure, you know how it goes, so I'm going to give you a replica and so on. We now have an extraordinary practice. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6423	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I appeal to you not to violate Rule 27, which clearly states that the President of the National Assembly cares about the application of this Rules of Procedure. With regard to Article 103, paragraph 9, which clearly states that it cannot, within the advertising of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, use the right to replicate another MP. It is not at all disputed that Mr. Martinovic and Mr. Djukanovic reported for the replica. You have a replica, they answer what they have, then you give me a replica, I answer them and we move on. It's a normal parliamentary practice, nothing is disputed. But that they get the right to breach of the Rules of Procedure that they use as a right to replication, and then I have no right to reply, because there is no replica on the violation of the Rules of Procedure, e, it is called violation of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, Article 27. So, no problem at all, you give them the right to a replica, let them respond to the Court's views. Mr. Arsic did it in a very correct way, said what he thought about what I said, I answered him. It's a good parliamentary practice, we support it. But, not to mention, the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, where, within the breach of the Rules of Procedure, the right to replication is used, and then we can't get the right to replication, because there's no replica on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'd just like to appeal to you, and if we establish that, I think we're on a good track to establish a good parliamentary debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6424	Thank you. But Article 103 of Rule 9 speaks of something a hundred - if the MP considers that until the beginning of the session of the Assembly he has not acted in accordance with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, he has the right to point out to the President of the Assembly in writing, which is what the President of the National Assembly at the meeting of the National Assembly informs the MPs and gives an explanation. (Bosko Obradović, from the city: Stav 8.) Well, the train passed. You said Article 103, Section 9, but I understood everything you wanted to say, so it can't come to a vote, you missed your position. The word has a National MP Milorad Mijatovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6425	Thank you, Madam President. Representative Dweri either didn't hear or didn't want to hear what I was saying and he said, "I'll choose words, a few inaccuracies." The first inaccuracy, the party I belong to, is called the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, because there is a Social Democratic Party of Serbia, whose President Boris Tadic is. This is the Social Democratic Party of Serbia and I ask you to remember, because you said one inaccuracy. Please make it right. Second, we weren't on vacation in August, we were working in August. I hope you did, too, but you said that other inaccuracies. In my presentation, I made it very clear, and colleague Tomic also pointed out why we had the same candidate, because this candidate wanted to go through our party, so he came through the SNS. He's not a member of our party, he's not a member of the SNS. Third, I asked this young candidate directly. He made it very clear what I said. We, and always I, at least those who know me, tell the truth and only the truth, the facts and choose the words. I'll never use those words that would hurt someone, insult them. This is how the Social Democratic Party of Serbia performs. So please let us enter into this house the truth, the expertise, the knowledge and continue the debate and fight these arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6426	Thank you. We will. National MP Goran Ciric, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6427	Dear Presidents, honourable colleagues and fellow MPs, today we have a proposal from future members and president of the Securities Commission. I think the key word in this assembly is, above all, the lawmaking, the legality of the work and this body, and all the bodies that we choose. In order for these authorities to respect the law, and we will remember what the job of the Independent Capital Market Regulator is, that is, the Securities Commission, that is, respect for the law, above all, the Capital Market Act adopted in 2011. I am a member of the Committee on Budgets and Finance and attended an interview with candidates proposed by the parties, there were also independents. At the time, he insisted precisely on respecting the conditions and the election law and the President of the Commission and the members of the Commission. One of the members of the Capital Market Act says that the conditions for selecting the President of the Securities Commission are of value, including members of the paper work within five years, at least five years of experience in working with securities. Unfortunately, the President-in-Office of the Commission has clearly not had such experience. This can be seen from the biography and we saw it as members of the Committee on Finance, and I think we got a biography here that shows that there is no experience, except in attending some training, courses or teaching, but on various topics for people who, for example, worked in Republika Srpska at the Securities Committee. I don't think that's enough reference and that we here need to think about whether we're going to break the law by choosing a man as president of the Committee on Papers from values that don't meet the legal requirements, and which we're going to expect later to respect the laws and regulate exactly this capital market in the way the Republic Assembly expects. So it really doesn't make sense to me, and that's why the DS Parliament Club won't support this kind of election proposal. So as not to think about whether it is a matter of political acuity and our unwillingness to support the SNS candidate, members of the Finance and Budget Committee themselves know that we have supported the two candidates. They were SNS candidates, but they also showed their expertise and their biographies showed that they meet these legal requirements and some of them are here and proposed. The most important place, the place of President of the Securities Commission, is a place that will compromise us as MPs because we will give support to an illegal proposal because man really does not meet these conditions. I'm not going to talk about names and last names or get into their lives because they're not here, but it's very important to talk like that. So, our expectation is that in such an important election, we do not come into a situation as the National Assembly consciously stare at both or one about what we are, for example, violating the Law on the Budgetary System of the Republic of Serbia and for five years we have not adopted the budget and the draft budget for next year, a proposal for a measure to bring public debt into line and bring those legal 45% limit in participation in the gross social product. We've had different cases, and here are the announcements and the Law on Public Property and the extension of deadlines for the application of that law. I think we can prove that consistency here and really respect the law on such an important subject. We all know that the development of the paper market is one of the important preconditions for the development of the economy and stability in Serbia. That's one serious question. I agree that it will not depend on the economic situation and the capital market in Serbia exclusively on these five names, but the first condition is really respect for legality. Because later in the expectation of insistence on legality in the work of the Commission itself, there is also an argument that shows that capital development in Serbia also requires trust. So that's another key word I would point out, it's a question of trust in the capital market because this report by the European Commission and the progress in Chapter 9 is also talking about the predominantly orientation of the capital market in Serbia, primarily towards business banks. There is little of this relationship with insurance companies, and especially little of it to the securities market of value. In order not only to speak in general, we also heard the data in which it is said, since both DS and all previous governments and all previous authorities were accused, that in 2008, the free market of capital was two billion euros, that in 2015 it was 180m euros. So, there's a fall. It's obviously a problem for all of us. But you need to raise that trust. We will not restore trust if we make such a decision, that, in addition to the law, we choose the president of the Securities Commission from a value that does not meet the basic conditions, and this is a five-year experience in working with securities of value. So, I think this is an opportunity for the proposing to give up this proposal for the President of the Commission. I think we will not achieve much because, once again I will mention Chapter 9, the European Commission's report and the frequent remarks that the capacities of institutions in Serbia are underdeveloped, we are not investing in the future development of the Commission's capacity for securities of value because it is obvious that with this choice we will not have progress in this area as well. One of the proposals, in addition to trust, in addition to legality, is transparency in the work of this Commission. A colleague, Mijatovic, spoke about it, and I think it's an important topic. It's a matter of reporting independent regulatory bodies to the Parliament's tide. We have had some reports that we have received on boards, but I don't think that that's enough because the under-acquainted public with the work of the Commission, so not enough to get to know the MPs themselves with the work of the Commission, the subject that isn't present enough in the public is something that limits the capital market in Serbia at all. For this reason, I think it is necessary and important that the report of the regulatory body as the Securities Commission is on a regular basis, where it will be reported, but in some ways also educate the public and interested market participants, so it is those who want to invest or are participants who have a good business idea and who want to raise capital. In that function, it should be, right in the role of Serbian citizens, activity on this plan. Unfortunately, we have not only in this area failures, therefore, the latest reports of independent regulatory bodies we had in this Assembly in 2013 with a report from Simeon, with a report from the Commissioner for Public Information, the Fiscal Council. I think we need to get reports of independent regulatory bodies here as often as possible, to look the truth into our eyes and face a situation in the capital market in Serbia that is really worrying, and it is the responsibility of all of us to open these topics, to face real data. So, once again, in 2008 -- two billion euros in the Serbian market in 2015 -- only 180 million.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6428	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6429	The Honorable Chairman, respected colleagues, so that they would not remain here without an answer and that they would not publicly place the subject of the type that we are now breaking the law by running for office of Professor Dedeic as president for the President of the Securities Commission. First, Article 246. The capital market law is clearly said that candidates should have a high level of expertise, at least five years of experience gained from the acquisition of securities-based transactions in the Republic or abroad. The definition of general concepts as regards the choice of securities transactions is not defined by the Capital Market Act, but by the Investment Funds Act and Article 1 paragraph 6 which states that – by law, the Commission’s competence is governed under point 6. Well, it says Article 12. - the conduct of securities transactions in the country or abroad in business can be: below 1 in the brokerage drug company, below 2 in the securities stock exchange, i.e. financial derivatives, point 3 in the bank, point 4 in the investment and voluntary pension funds management company, point 5 in the insurance company, point 6 in the Central Bank or other state body or organisation and point 7 in the legal person whose securities transactions are held for the account of the State as entrusted transactions. So, it's defined here when we're talking about values charters in general, it's quite broadly defined, and that's why the part that concerns, especially Professor Dedeic, works in a consulting house, in the economic bureau in 2001, 2002, 2003. Internacional consulting centre legal d.o.o. As Director-General for Foreign Investments, by 2005 it speaks of the fact that the West defines investments as real goods, and that in America and even parts relating to both Canada and certain models of developed economies involve investments as securities of value. That's why the part where we say that really expertise is his basic mark, in fact, that he was running for this function, and those who say that Mr. Martinovic whispered to me, I'm going to say that I whispered to him, that the moment we really interviewed all the candidates, we saw that really Professor Dedeic should be wearing this particular leadership function that refers to the commission's presidency, precisely because on the basis of the stenograms that you can see from this session what Professor Dedeic really proposed he is running for it. First of all, it says that it is necessary to implement to really develop the securities market and to reorganize the Commission itself, we need to look at it with more aspects and we need to do it in a certain way at some three levels. And above all, Professor Dedeic has a lot of experience in working with records of value to the German, Austrian and Canadian models. Indeed, on this basis, he argues that on certain three levels within the house outside the house and in the region certain emergency measures should be carried out. So it says that the Commission must be organised at the highest level of corporate governance applicable to public services and public authorities. That first of all, we can't do a miracle overnight, but first of all, we have to deal with her being the guardian of the rules that exist, first of all when it comes to protecting investors, protecting small shareholders, and ensuring a fair game and attractive market where we go to reduce the increasing risks. That the Commission has as an organ, which we say as a regulatory body, that it should operate according to the highest standards to ensure cohesion, to connect sectors at all levels. What the Commission still needs to represent in its future work is, above all, that certain institutions such as the secretary should not be an integral part of the ordinary service itself but be a significant figure in harmonisation, above all legal regulations, the handling of links between certain segments which the commission deals with. Secondly, to introduce an internal audit system, these are all answers not only to you, but also to previous speakers, that the surveillance sector as mentioned earlier is very important and that it must be a concrete impact analysis on the ground itself. That relations with the public that have so far been negative and completely had to change the picture completely when it comes to not only the Commission but also attract certain investors and all interested market participants. That the panel of experts that should really gather this commission as a single body that should assist this commission's work and gather those factors that would help the market from that expert side, to organise this panel discussion regardless of critical opinions and suggestions precisely in order to make our best models of development of this market. The protection of investors and the protection of small shareholders is always current, but it is related to a large number, meaning court disputes. Therefore, serious attention should be paid to introducing a centre for peaceful dispute resolution, the alarming centre would be also an interesting mechanism to resolve the practical part of the judiciary as a form of prevention. Then, Professor. Dedeic says that the old rule in the business where the buyer is supposed to guard, we are actually the ones who need to educate him, that he is well informed. For the time being, the documents and reports and documents coming out of the Commission in a certain way did not give the right picture of the state of affairs, that this should change from the root. Simply the new instruments that need to run this part when we talk about securities of value are, one emancipated bond relating to bonds of local self-government that were later followed by certain infrastructure projects, but that great caution should be given, because experts say it should be limited when it comes to institutional investors, because, let's just say, such experiences have German stock exchanges and Austrian stock exchanges. I want to tell you that he also had his experience in co-operation with the Canadian Stock Exchange and with the US Stock Exchange, so also with the stock exchanges of Western developed states has just shown that he has elements that he can really apply when it comes to the presidency of this commission and he can deal with it. What is very important, therefore, is that the President of the Commission should be one figure where those who represent new members, and the new members are those fresh blood, which so far have not been members of any council, or the Securities Commission, are candidates who have all voted. So, some parties may not have attended the Committee meetings but there is a candidate named Marko Jankovic, who has indeed come from this real sector from the economy and presented himself in the best light of the interview because, ultimately, the members of the Committee were asking certain questions they were interested in with different aspects and received answers for which they also voted four parties of opposition representatives. So I think that this kind of candidate is also appropriate for the president and members to respond to the changes in the society that awaits us in this area. As for the large percentages, i.e. the major changes occurred at the time of 2007 on the stock market, buying and selling securities of value, to compare with 2015, I don't think it's realistic if we don't know the facts that existed at the time. In 2007, it is practically the period of the start of the major economic crisis, as well as the completion of the privatisation process since 2001. At that time, the largest number of companies were practically sold over the stock market and therefore the records of value were experienced by the so-called so-called market. In 2007, where there was a major decline after 2008, 2009 and 2010, many in the world also experienced stock market failures. Therefore, we cannot compare at all the characteristics of the stock market and the current stock market, because I will remind you, there was a "C-market", a "Centrom", and certain companies related to the purchase of companies at the time by Mr. Miskovic's company. We know how these privatisations were done and what shareholders, small shareholders and employees of these companies were experiencing and what pressures they had suffered just to accept to take their securities out of value, their bonds, which they couldn't, of course, replace anywhere, and that they were practically getting 100 euros per year of employment, to take their severances with which they couldn't do anything and fell to the cost of the state. As a result, we have resulted in 400,000 new unemployed and pressure on the National Employment Service, or on the burden of Serbia's budget. As you can see, the entire stock market crash and the entire waste of paper work fell to the expense of all Serbian citizens. In order for that to never happen again, now is the time that we simply have to go into full reorganisation of this sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6430	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Miljan Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6431	Dear Chairman, honourable MPs, we had during the previous period of discussion to hear the reasons why we should, which is why we should not support these proposals. I believe that, as far as Professor Predrag Dedeic and his academic biography are concerned, there is really no dispute that a man who, as far as academic biography is concerned, is an extraordinary, exceptional expert, but on the other hand, we are really just talking about cosmetic changes here. I must refer to what the previous colleagues have spoken and defended their proposal, which is yes, and why I say that cosmetic changes, which is that we will keep one part of the members of this proposal, and those others I believe, and as Mrs Tomic says, in this case, Mr Marko Jankovic is of great quality, which I have no doubt as soon as you presented and conducted the talks and as soon as most of the members of the Committee and of the opposition voted in favour of such a proposal, this is about other matters and concrete ones that you also received at the Committee session on 14 July, a letter of staff from the Committee of Papers Committee. There are other people here who are contentious, those who remain. The question is, what will Professor Dedeic, if this is really true, be able to do with people like that? What we have already noted is that the Securities Commission has not worked well and has done business with the loss and even requested help from the state budget. We know that during that period, the president was Mr. Milicevic Zarko, who, if during his term of office, and you will remember, I think that Mr. Arsic spoke, I believe that he changed Mr. Cirovic's predecessor, when he said that he had changed one while he was chairman of the Budget Committee, then the question is how will Mr. Dedeic be able to co-operate with such a man who set up a lot of unprofessional people and made strange moves in this previous term, because you are now proposing him as a member of this meeting? On the other hand, I have to look back, because there were words, again because of the public, and that is that people, every person who has had a higher salary and goes to a lower salary, this is about a serious institution, but again for the public, not to be denied, this is an official document that is on their site - the amount of earnings paid in the Commission according to data for September 2016. I just want the public to know it's not about some average salary or just some little more than average salary. It's really about our terms of serious pay. In September, the appointed and elected persons received 122.215 dinars and up to 154.732, then, department managers and sector directors from 78.677 to 130.803 and other employees 25.920 to 102.494 dinars, which we will agree that they are still earning when it comes to the state sector at a satisfactory level. What we can't support this proposal for is precisely because of two, three people we don't understand why they're proposed for. In the first row, so I guess, since you got that letter too, Mrs. Tomic, and I believe you've done some analysis and discussed it, so I'd like to see if you have any additional answers, the president and the members of the Finance Committee, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds arrived on July 21st, the letter of employees were listed only as employees. And you know yourself that he's always been afraid of the employees of his directors, of his executives, of whether they can say publicly, whether they can't, whether they're going to suffer some consequences or not because of all that carrying out documents or information, as far as their companies are concerned, in this case, the Securities Commission. We, according to what I have seen on the official site, for the time being, this Commission, although we have found that it is working badly, which has a large number of sectors and subsectors, the first thing Mr. Dedeic will have to face is definitely badly selected sectors and subsectors. So we have subsectors where we only have two employees, but we have executives. On the other hand, we have a situation that they predicted 52 employees, and we're saying that I can't do for these current ones how busy this official data is 37 plus one contract, where I'm going to ask you to tell me if it's true that the person who was accepted by contract is that it's Maya Aksentijevic for an emergency hair job? Is that a contract, if there is one? I'm saying all of this, I'm going to take a few more data out just because of your proposal, so it's undeniable, I believe they've given you what it's supposed to look like right now. I'm talking about the gentleman who led, that's right, about the Light. The logical question then arises, if indeed what the employees claim was doing in the past few years, that they were arrogantly treating the employees, that he had been introduced into the whole business by Mr. Zoran Cirovic, whom we know, and had already been said that the job had not worked well, and you had just pointed out an absolute truth and why the representatives of the former regime, when I say the former, former regime, were the last to talk about it. When it comes to the protection of small shareholders, they have just suffered the most, if already mentioned, small shareholders of the "C-market" and all of these privatisations that took place since 2001 until the end of these privatisations. And we know that this particular privatisation included Miskovic, but also Beko, and that we cannot compare the data at the time and that even though there was a multiple presence on the stock market, it was supposed to be much higher than it was, because literally small shareholders were taken action for a certain price. I'll remind you that nothing better was an example of Luke Belgrade. You remember that two survey committees were required. One polling committee demanded an SRS, and then the head of the parliamentary group was Dragan Todorovic in the Republic Parliament. As I recall, he didn't live, and the other survey committee was organized, or the City Assembly started. It is interesting that the survey committee has never been completed, no report has arrived, except for the collateral damage to Strahinja Sekulic, who left, or, if I am not mistaken, has been removed from Belgrade City's public defender. Because of all that was happening in the past, and the victims of the small and the shareholders, employees and the public problem suffered, even though we in the SRS are facing a problem, were these people, who were in the Securities Committee in the previous period, in certain positions, whether they were presidents? I'll remind you of Mr. Zarko Milicevic. I held on to it most, because I was really interested in his biography, which is that he had completed his education, began in October 1996, in December 2006. So, after a decade and something over and over, and the first job was right after the university in the Ministry of Finance, the Office for the Treasury in 2007 until 2009. I have a fear, because I remember well who led this Ministry then, which then recommended it. Under the same regime in the coming period, he was still in the Ministry of Finance in 2010 until 2011, but then crossing from 2011, and yet we know which regime was then in power, at the Commission's Securities Committee and became the cabinet of the President of the Commission. What is it that is obvious to him, and what must not in our opinion pass, and should you withdraw that proposal when it comes to him? It is that he has inherited his closest associate, who has otherwise brought him, Zoran Ćirović, and who is also in the media, and there is evidence, very often it has not been in his workplace at all, that he has often traveled, and that he has thus destroyed what we are talking about today, which is that now you and the new president want to reorganize. I'm saying his team's a bad one to be selected. Also, immediately after that, as soon as Mr. Zarko Milicevic took office, instead of being like you, having submitted a report to the Budget Committee, you do not have it, as far as I am concerned, I asked, if you would like to win, the moment he took over Zarko Milicevic. It is like, although it is said to be an independent body, and it cannot be unfortunately financed, although we are already those who allocate money from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, its basic task was to assume the post to create a cross-section, financial intersection, a cross-section of the organisational structure, whether all were employed in accordance with what this Commission needed or were employed as it is today, which is the party that proposed it. When we talk about who the party has proposed and when this is public, at this point it is completely irrelevant, because there is a law that gives conditions and predicts certain conditions, but it is also amazing that if you call it a failure, or if it is only if all this is what I have said is false, when we talk about what it is and how Mr Cirovic is and in what state he left this Commission. So Mr. Zarko Milicevic had to make a cut first and deliver it to you. Next, what did Zarko Milicevic do first when he became president, and who do you want today and suggest that he remain a member of the Commission? He immediately proposed eight new workers and according to our information, which I believe you have information, they had no working experience for the corresponding jobs that were then proposed, and I will tell you the names of those employees, which can be determined later, since we are not in a hurry anywhere. He then received: Tijana Cvetkovic Gajičić, Laketić Nenada, Gasic Aleksandra, Stanic Gajic Veselina and Basta Borisa, deploying them to the jobs of senior associates and advisers at the time. There were even more, because of the citizens I have to point out, bigger profits than today, even bigger profits, and that way we come into a paradoxical situation to say that they can't finance themselves right now. I can't if someone's been taking the wrong lead, whether by someone's order, let's not now who whispered to whom or if someone's ever whispered to him. We're really talking about the true and factual state of the Commission that he left behind. Besides, it was very symptomatic, I'll leave it for later, and that's the second proposed candidate, what should I actually check? It's Mirjana Ivosevic. If I am not mistaken, it has entered the development sector since 24 March 2011, a financial analyst and, according to our information, it is, contrary to Article 246. The capital market law, which can be checked in the employee's personal file, Zarko Milicevic, as they would say, has passed the law. At the time, she did not, according to our knowledge, finish college, but later completed, I think, the Bank Academy or whatever it is called, the same one where the lecturer was Professor Dedejic in one period. I'm not connecting, so you don't think, but I'm just saying it's about... I didn't really know there was this banking academy. I know of some state colleges, like the Faculty of Economics, Law School, etc. It was only since March 2011, that I again have to say, in our knowledge, that he had arranged for high-experience jobs and on the day of signing a statement that he meets the members of the Capital Markets Act became just over four years of work experience. So, even though she had graduated from college in the meantime, although she was assigned to higher office, she did not meet the basic legal obligation at the time. If we have such two proposals today, you are free of the good president of the Commission. If you leave what's hollow, what's radical and what's years ago, and they've both been for many years, and what's seen in the biography, we're present in this commission, then, gentlemen Members of Parliament, dear colleagues, we're going to make a big mistake. We can't make that mistake because we're going to vote against and we've made our arguments. This reminds me today, if God is not allowed to make a decision, if I'm telling the truth, you're going to say, it's not a problem, we'll accept, but if this is true what I'm talking about and if it's true, we're going to get into one problem – how are you going to vote for? Will it be by system as on the Eurointegration Committee? The constitution exists. The Constitution prescribes what language is in use, officially, there is a Rules of Procedure that says who can speak, and then someone makes a decision and says – it is good practice, it was good practice in the previous period. If we find that these people came in the way they came to the commission and proved that Mrs Tiana had already committed an offence then, then how can we believe that tomorrow she will not participate in any manipulative further affairs or anything else that will damage both the Commission and the Budget Committee that has control over her, and together with the MPs and the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because this proposal will support her. So I'm really asking you, this is classified data, there's a lot of official data on the site last night, while I was getting ready, I'm only partially out of line, it's being talked about and it's been about people who have been back in years, exactly who have been proposed since the regime, who have been on a much bigger salary than they are now, but are you going to make the same mistake now? If they made a mistake, don't make a mistake. If they did it, why would you continue that bad practice? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6432	Thank you. The floor is represented by the National MP Dr Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6433	Dear Chairman, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, to answer, many questions have been asked here. First, one of the answers that is certainly searching for the public and ultimately all colleagues, is that July 14th was the first committee to be established in this assembly. So that's the date on which the commission's mandate expires, and from that moment on, all the actions that relate to the selection of the new calling are under way. Until then, we haven't had a chance to get a report for 2016, because it's ongoing, but we have a 2015 report. The previous assembly, the Assembly, had and had a different convocation of the committee adopted a report on the work of the Commission on securities of value for 2015. So, in order for everyone to know what we're talking about, the 2016 report will only be received after the end of the year. Such is the procedure for all institutions that submit certain reports. So they don't have that obligation as a ministry every three months. That's one thing. Secondly, when we talk about who's employed, it's not our place to go into it as board members, how who hires, that's why the person who makes that kind of contract is responsible. It is up to us that, as not only I as board president, after all and members, we are looking first of all, except for the work report, so that we do not wait for the end of the year, we can look for the number of employees and the structure and ultimately, the expertise, on which contracts they are employed and for which jobs. So that's what we can certainly look for. Secondly, as far as relations are concerned in general when we talk about Mr. former President or Zarko Milicevic, what he showed through that interview is an exceptional expertise in terms of the very leadership of this institution and continuity in certain activities of the commission itself. So the part about self-handling within the board, no one can prove to you until the end unless we're really looking for these contracts for insight. There is always that in every company, even in the commission, there are employees who are unhappy about something and write certain letters. That's not just the case for this commission, that's the case for all agencies, ministries and public enterprises. It's always been and it's always been. But what's up with us is that we examine all these facts that you've cited, which you claim to be top secret. We couldn't even know that they were top secret and that they were true. We can ask in writing to answer, after all, Mr. Milicevic himself. What I would say is that when we had his presentation and his interview, he was questioned not only by the members of the position, but also by the members of the opposition board and believe me that in his place I might not have answered many questions, but he did answer extremely openly, honestly about all those problems that concern cost-making, when it comes to budgeting, means the Commission's budget, which says for 2015 he made a profit of 52 million, but for 2016 he says he will surely be minus a few million. And that's what the fact is, which shows essentially that this commission doesn't work, or that it doesn't satisfy what it's about. I'm just going to remind you that this meeting has actually changed on the basis of what Mr. Arsic said, so only two members were changed in 2015, and he continued to function in the composition of Mr. Bajec and Mr. Stimac. I mean, somehow, that continuity for any institution is always very important. You have to leave certain people who have functioned in a certain institution, you can't change them all, because of that continuity, and because of that, while other new people come to function in a particular institution, it takes a lot of time to run a lot of things. That's why it's very good to always have, as it says, a combination of experiences and practices, but also a combination of those people who are already doing that job and those who are new. That is why we have defined ourselves to be the new president of the commission and to be Mr. Marko Jankovic, who comes from the real sector for whom everyone has decided to support his election as a member of the board's council. What should be resented by Zarka Milicevic or not, the leadership of the commission within a year. So, from 2015 to 2016, it's true that he was the head of the office of the previous president, but you know when you work as a certain professional person that you're not the decision-maker, like when you work as president and member of the council. So it was very important for us to do a quality interview with him and in this interview, what we had the opportunity to hear from Mr. Milicevic, it is precisely that we need to coordinate with new legal acts, so that this commission can start working in a way and, ultimately, earn some funds to be able to support itself, not to ask for funding from the budget anymore. That's one thing. Secondly, that the issue of changing criminal policy must be defined precisely because of control in the securities market. Secondly, if the judiciary and the Commission themselves have not functioned in a certain way so far, with the assistance of course, and the Committee on Budgetary Finance and Public Consumption, they must begin to function. That the position of the regulatory body that they had so far simply had not been able to manage for the year that he was headed by the chairman of the commission, he simply could not implement it. Therefore, at the time he was set in 2015 he had only the opportunity to carry out certain activities, to maintain the functioning of the commission in the given circumstances in the capital market which is completely minimal and that is what should be said somewhere that he had succeeded, when we talk about 2015, to end the year with a positive balance, that 2016 worked until the time their mandate expired, which is 14 July 2016. This is all that you have stated that the Commission's internal policy, when it comes to employment, we have not had any members of the Committee by 14th of July, I as president for the first time have now taken up that post, I have not had this knowledge and what makes it more and more necessary now to establish a certain control over these independent institutions is precisely through the form of our MPs, members of the board, in writing. So, looking for practical and establishing discipline, which Professor Dedeic cited as one of the basics for the commission to be managed when it regulates internal, practical systematization and work within the commission, discipline and functioning on the basis of corporate governance. That is why we felt that Mr Milicevic should indeed be left in the Council, precisely because of these things he stated in his interview as important for the Commission's change. As for how he acted as president, we didn't have the information you say are top secret. Those top secret ones, I didn't have one. And if it's anonymous letters, it should always be examined. It's no problem to ask a written question and ask for a written answer, but it's just always part of the half-truth. Whether it's 100% true or it doesn't exist at all or it's fiction, it's that we're looking for a written clue about what someone put as an anonymous letter and we don't have a problem with that at all. So, if we get it, when we define a new synergy and composition of the commission, we're going to ask the question directly. After all, and when the 2016 report, they all come to the Finance Committee. All MPs can come to the board and ask personally. That is why I am telling you, the intention is to really make a decision on the selection of a commission that will make its full contribution to creating a new concept of values policy and the capital market in Serbia, to simply start the commission to earn how much its costs are, so that nothing is asked of Serbia's budget anymore. On the other hand, to start that capital market, to start investors, to really develop in that part as a society, and to simply develop awareness of the need for it as a society, first of all, if we go into establishing new start-up apps for the company, young people, to start awareness that the purchase of securities from value becomes everyday here in society, and that is why we believe that Mr. Milicevic should be an integral part of this team. All of this, we will be able to ask him personally and by written means and by oral means at the Committee's meetings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6434	Thank you. Mr. Damjanovic, you answered. The basis of your call is the replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6435	As an authorised representative. Mrs. Tomic, you and I seem to be only in one thing we didn't understand, and that's that I didn't say one moment that anything was top secret, but it's verifiable. I'm not strict, so it's verifiable. I gave you the information for Mrs Mirjana Ivosevic. She didn't meet the condition at the time. So it's an illegal solution. She's got four, the law says five. And you can check that out. Now if we have a break, it can be checked within five minutes. It's called Staff and check it out and that's it. And about these other things I was talking about, I simply said – you can check. I haven't come out of the agenda in a moment, I've been talking about people I think that, who have stayed from the previous period, my opinion, given the material that I've seen and looked at on the site, is that simply, since I don't have time now, I'm going to use it later in my second reporting, to tell you, for certain other sectors that he's set extremely badly back then. Why did he set him up as president then, I don't know. I believe he was great at the interview and said – what will now change with that Dedejic. That's another thing they'll do in the future. I'm talking about how bad he set up the sector in the previous period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6436	Thank you. The floor has a representative of the promoter, National MP Dr Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6437	I'll just be a minute. Mr. Radulovic directly asked Mrs. Ivosevic the same question and received an adequate answer. So I'm saying whether it's not shown enough in her biography, but simply those years that are sought are supported by facts, so that's not a problem at all. There.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6438	Thank you. Mr. Radulovich, you've been mentioned. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6439	Thank you. I did ask that question and I didn't get an adequate answer. Since, when we analyzed Mrs. Ivosevic's biography, it was clear that she had no years of experience to perform this function. So there are video clips about where it can be clearly seen how the debate was going, how the questions went, what year she graduated from college, when she graduated from college, and looking at her experience, she worked for a while as an analyst, it's not according to the Charter of Values Act enough to have enough experience to be a member of the Securities Commission. So we voted against this proposal. There are other candidates who are in a similar position, and I'm going to underline, there was an excellent candidate that we supported. Unfortunately, the other four aren't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6440	Thank you. The word has a national MP, Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6441	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we are still discussing today a proposal for a decision to elect a president and a member of the Securities Committee, whose proposal is the Committee on Finance of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. At the very beginning, I want to say two facts, first of all, because of the citizens of Serbia. The first fact is that the Charter Commission is an independent and independent state institution and is a capital market regulator in the Republic of Serbia, that as such, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia controls, adopts its reports and plans and decides and elects the president, or members of the commission. Another fact I would like to emphasise for Serbia's citizens is that in a few times in the previous period, the resolution committee, the Finance Committee, returned and refused to supplement the commission's annual reports. This was first and foremost in November 2012, when the Commission concluded that it had completed the Financial Report for 2011, and then the Financial Report was updated by the Resorship Committee in June 2013. On the very board, the basic questions of the members of the Committee on Finance, which could be heard, were primarily about salaries, i.e. gross employee earnings, in particular by all their increases in 2012, because the same number of employees was shown to be a huge loss and found to be inappropriately high wages, especially because the Commission has lost. That is why my question is now – what is the current situation in the commission and how can improvement be expected from the new members to be declared by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? I would also like to say one very important note, that the work of the Securities Commission in the capital market cannot be seen in isolation. It is part of a single system, I would say, above all, part of the joint courts with the Belgrade Stock Exchange, the Central Register, the Depo clearing of securities from values and investment societies. The objectively, difficult circumstances in the market are largely out of the reach of the commission and these are facts and over the past few years we are also recording a decline in stock exchanges, stock markets, and a large number of stock exchanges have been shut down. In 2015 there are 37 brokerage-dealing houses, which is more than twice as much as just a few years ago. The Belgrade Stock Exchange has been recording a catastrophic financial result for several years, as greater traffic does not necessarily mean a better financial effect. I think the creator of economic policy in Serbia missed many opportunities over the past few years to improve the capital stock market situation in Serbia. I'll list one, in my opinion, key information. At the end of 2008, the state took basic financial steps, primarily in preserving the liquidity of business banks, and thus was considered to place the accent in the conditions of the galloping crisis to preserve the very segment of the financial system by guaranteeing the savings roles of citizens, while the capital market was literally pushed into the seal and left to the market line. The result of such a decision is that the largest number of domestic operators in such a situation has lost their chance to reach, above all, fresh financial capital and financial resources in the way it is done in developed economies. I must also point out that the importance of the capital market is, above all, in collecting capital, in efficient capital allocation, in investment under equal conditions, in enabling transparency and making income and general economic growth. Unfortunately, numerous cases in the previous period when the state, by its own conduct, and by its own failure, and the Commission itself as an exponent of the state market, directly influenced the loss of investor confidence primarily foreign, and above all I want to mention the affairs concerning the bids to take over and privatise "Knjiza Miloša" and "Evening News". Our citizens lost confidence in the banking structures that were close to the past. There are no roses in the region, yet the stock markets are working. First of all, I would mention Zagreb, Ljubljana, do not work as well as in previous years, but they function in a better way in Serbia. What's to be done? I think it is crucial to give opportunity and allow the stock market for the remaining, carefully guarded, public enterprises in Serbia. New financial instruments are also needed, which could be more attractive to potential investors, such as mundane bonds, charters of values emanating from local self-government units. Thirdly, no real initial public offer has yet been implemented in Serbia, and I want to highlight one example of good practice from our environment again from neighbouring Croatia. Croatia's largest shipping company Tankerska Brodjav has offered investors shares of its daughter's firm and has been raised close to 28m euros in fresh capital. What structure of investors was in the Croatian shipping company? Fifty-four percent of the shares were bought by pension funds, 19% by citizens, small investors, 15% by investment funds, and 12% by insurance companies. It was contacted during the preparation of an offer of about 400 potential investors from Croatia, the US, Europe, and this is, above all, a good example of mobilization, i.e. how one well-designed idea can be mobilised by investors, despite the poor economic environment and the caution that is present in the region. What I will end up saying as a conclusion and what, in my opinion, is imposed also as a conclusion and the question is that the state, through competent institutions, and the Securities Commission, must, in objectively difficult circumstances, put forth efforts and correct the situation on the domestic capital market, because otherwise it literally does not exist. Now the key question is – how do you motivate investors to trade here with us, when retailers all domestic investors offer the possibility of trading on the world's largest stock exchanges, including New York, London, Tokyo, Frankfurt? Also, what is very important is that the citizens of Serbia know and that we are aware, when voting for the proposed candidates, is that Serbia's strategic commitment to join the EU, that when the time comes, regardless of the difficult road we are going through, will not receive us without the capital stock exchange, and if there is no stock exchange or capital markets, there is no need for there to be a Commission for Securities of Values. For me, the key question is that the proposed candidates must be, above all, professionally but personally motivated, to make their full professional contribution to repairing the overall environment in Serbia. In the end, I would like to say that the New Serbia Parliamentary Group will support the proposed candidates in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6442	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass the act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6443	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have heard today and the debates concerning the Commission's work, I have heard debates about the quality of the candidates for the members of the Commission, and I can accept all this in the most part. There are certain differences, and it's not good to agree on everything. It would not be good if the opposition did not criticise it, because through its criticism it forces the authorities to behave responsibly. But I can't understand the simplest populism and the whole discussion is based on the simplest populism. I would draw attention to the MPs whose first term is this, the parliamentary mandate may be short, to sit as much in the hall as possible, to learn from their older colleagues, to perfect themselves, to ask if they don't know anything, to become good MPs and thus raise the reputation of the Serbian parliament. Also, when someone mentions my internship has that right only on one condition, MPs, which is that at least one term in office works as a volunteer, as an MP who doesn't get paid. When he does, I'll accept any criticism that's justified. Now, I would like to invite our cameramen in the O.R. to show us the Parliament benches of the Dvora Movement, that none of their MPs are in the O.R., that they don't earn their salary and that they don't work in the interest of the citizens. If that's the form of their political struggle, I don't mind, but let them say so. Now, I'd like to ask Mr. Radulovic's photographer to ask me first if he can take a picture of me, because I think he's breaking the law. Only public service has the right, no one else, but probably to deal with tweets, but it's not politics. No one said what the Securities Commission essentially is and what it regulates and what it is. I heard it had something to do with the takeover. It is true that the Securities Commission also deals with securities of value. Has everything been legal since the Commission was established? Probably not. A lot of things weren't done by law. I remember even after they attacked some of the staff who were in G17, the then president of Mr. Schimtz, who did not want to sign the property records of value for the takeover of "The Book of Milos" and that he ended up in jail for it, but he was brave enough not to do so. They kept him in custody for 30 days. We cannot share political parties on those who are exclusively honest and those who are exclusively thieves. There's another kind of securities of value, and these are financial records of value. We're only dealing with the owner so far. The transformations are almost over. Privatization's over. The downloads are over. Can we put that back? We can't. No one challenged them before court proceedings, and that's what we need to put an end to, otherwise we're going to live in the past. Should these people involved be rewarded? No, I don't. Should we support those who want to do their job honestly and honestly? That's the kind of guy you need to support. There is also a discussion about funding and our State Securities Commission, they say, will be financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Yeah, that's right. But let's also help our securities commission, because it's ours, it's state-owned and motivated, if not to make them do their job differently. Anyone who wants to do so is welcome, regardless of political belongings. Why shouldn't our Securities Commission finally regulate one part of the market that belongs exclusively to banks? Is that a problem with the Commission? It shouldn't be. Does he have a legal basis? He's got it. Does it take some courage to do something like that? Yeah. But, you know, if you don't have the guts to do your job right, don't even run for it. Why not transfer one part of the financial records to the Commission's jurisdiction, i.e. it does not create a regulation for the financing of certain entities through the emission of securities of value, especially small, micro-sized and medium-sized enterprises? What are the effects of that? Someone will say, "Behold, they will earn their wages." That's not the point. It's nice when it's not going out of the budget. But the goal is to reduce the price of capital on the market. Let me remind you, someone said five years ago. Not five years ago. The fifth year is since the SNS was in power, they've barely been charged four. Just to remind you that four years ago and three months ago, one of the most ordinary loans in Serbia that the citizens raised cost about 36%. Today even those little consumers without any security costs 10%. Is that enough? Well, it's not. Is it better? Yes, it is. Why don't we get our Commission that investors, whoever they are and wherever they come from, don't buy securities of value, and there's a procedure for economic operators to issue securities of value, not just to be with banks, to buy securities of value, financial derivatives, not ownership, business entities, micro, mini and medium-sized enterprises? What would we have as an effect? As an effect, we would have a lower capital price in Serbia because employers would have more money to expand capacity and create new jobs. That's the job of the next committee we're pleading on. Let's go through her work reports submitted by the Financial Committee to do so and to make it and to endure, so that our economy is not only burdened by a banking system that proved to be in one period, especially in 2009, 2010, and in early 2012, as a parasitic and carcinogenic system. You know, there's no mercy in various financial speculators, and they don't need to be resented. They're looking to make as much money as possible. But the job of the state, and in this case the Committee on Papers is also worth protecting its economy and its citizens and creating fair conditions for them. We were raising loans just because of this unregulated matter by the Commission by 2012, at a price of 7, 8, 9, or 10%, I read the other day about what these loans looked like, and today an ordinary citizen can raise a loan at a lower interest rate than the state was in debt five or more years ago. Why not also turn the economy towards financial derivatives that regulate stock exchanges, i.e. legal and sublegal regulations, by the Securities Commission? Every dinar that is spent less on a loan, either from the economy, or from the population, and who turns to consumption, eventually raises our gross product and raises revenue into the budget and gives the basis for higher wages in the public sector and pensions. That's how you run the country, not stand up for one system. I'd like someone to explain to me, to find it in the textbooks, to represent itself as the ultimate right-wing party that seeks, not to think about the SRS, not to look at me like that, the right-wing state with the communist arrangement of the economy. Here, somebody explain it to me. Is that possible? The year I was in 1969. I had to study at school and Marks and Engels and socialist self-government and what is an ideal society, etc., and with that knowledge I failed to find this combination of intelligence, that solution, that social, state and economic order. Do you know what's only good about it? What you can go out and tell what someone likes to hear. God forbid they start to lead Serbia, so they'd fall apart in a week, they'd cease to exist. It's still saying – it's relying on domestic forces. I agree, that's nice, but how? One hand is empty, and the other is nothing. Then what are you going to do? Disperse everything from Serbia? Does anyone else want to impose sanctions on the European Union? I'm talking about the financial market, the securities of value, the financial nature. Let them learn what the subject is. So, just once with a serious reform that is a process, we can get the country out of the crisis and make a society where institutions will work independently of who's in power. That's when the SNS finished the job, and those who think that populism will come to power, just to remind them. For twelve years, it took me, as an MP, to bring down one bad authority, and for 12 years in this House, I had to learn what a state is, what a government is, and how it refers to state and government. And now imagine those who won't even sit in the hall, won't even learn, and they want to defeat one good power. Well, your beards will grow and saddle up. This committee should be supported. This commission should be forced to do its job properly. This commission needs to measure the results in the next period. If something's wrong, it needs to be changed, nothing's nailed or promised, but it should give them a chance. As some citizens have given an opportunity to those who don't deserve it. Some Americans were given, I don't mind, just let them come out here and say it loud and clear. Some may argue to move NASA's space program to Serbia. Great, just to see how you do it, then we'll solve all the problems. The people in the end, sometimes they can make mistakes and I respect that mistake, but they don't expect colleagues who vote here to make so many mistakes when they attack everything and everything, when they attack today's November month, which is known in the autumn and what the country is turning around and that's why Alexander Vukic is guilty. So far goes the fight against the current regime and the current government. So no doubt, we'll support this commission, we'll give it a chance, but we expect results in the next period.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6444	Thank you. National MP Sonja Pavlovic, has a word, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6445	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Article 106. – The speaker can only talk about the topic of the agenda on which the search is conducted. Do you esteemed presidents respect article 108 and take care of the order at the session? Well, no. Is Mr. Arsic talking about the subject? Well, no. And why isn't Mr. Arsic talking about the subject? Because it's important for him to tell us about the splendor and success of the current government. Why is Mr. Arsic giving a message to the new MPs that they should listen to him. Why? To be like him, obedient and worthy. Well, Mr. Arsic, he won't do it this time. I told you once before not to mention the subject. We've been here in the congregation as valuable as anyone else who's been here for 25 years. And I told you, just when you were in the chair, that our knowledge of you was much greater than yours. We've been watching you here for a quarter of a century, so passive observational knowledge. Don't treat the new MPs like that. I respect your attempt to doactically explain to us what we need to do. Believe me, we'll succeed without you, but I'm asking you also to be in the subject of your way and conduct of the discussion, perhaps then we'll learn a lot more about how the agenda should be conducted at the session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6446	Thank you. Since you asked me one specific question, do I respect Article 106 and 108? I think so, yes, but the MPs will speak of it in the day of the vote. If you wish the People's Assembly in the voting day to make a statement about the alleged violation of the Rules of Procedure. All right, you do. On the other hand, I will try a few sentences, not wanting to have a dialogue with you, but a session of the People of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly. Not only Mr. Arsic, most authorised representatives had one broader context for considering the topic that is the point of the agenda. Mr. Arsic spoke about reform processes in the context of what is today's agenda. He also answered certain questions not wanting to use replicas, to do so through the infringements of the Rules of Procedure, but as an authorised representative of the SNS, so I allowed him to do so because I believe it was correct. We're moving on with our work. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6447	It's a miracle how they always recognize each other. I'm advertising Article 103 of Section 7. Rules of Procedure relating to a parliamentary group which is the sole expert on the Rules of Procedure. Finally, we are equal, now I am an MP, not the chairman, and when the only argument on someone's discussion is not what he said, but the only argument that someone should report to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Chairman, that is proof to me that the people can make a mistake. I accept and respect the mistakes of our people. I don't mind, whoever wants to listen or won't, I just wanted to help my fellow Members understand the rules of Parliament's work and that none of us are infinitely smart and that our whole lives are one learning. If someone gets up to take a picture next to the Rules of Procedure and has nothing to say about the law or the proposal, it also shows those who voted for him that they were an ordinary mistake.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6448	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Dusan Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6449	Please chair, Article 103.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6450	You can't advertise the same article twice.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6451	What? Now to what the previous speaker did.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6452	She's a colleague of yours for a while. My colleague Veroljub has just advertised, as far as I can see, the violation of Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure. Immediately before you, a colleague was advertised by Rule 106 of the Rules of Procedure. You can't apply to the same members.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6453	I refer to the same one, I refer to Article 103, based on what my colleague Arsic just said.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6454	What part?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6455	So, not what he advertised.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6456	What part? I didn't understand you?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6457	“ The MP has the right to orally point to an injury in the conduct of the National Assembly president if he does not feel that he is in conformity. “ Mr. Arsic was always at home with the previous speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6458	I can't agree with you. I've been listening to the reason for your call, and I don't think you have any reason to get your word. A colleague, Veroljub Arsic, has just pointed out, in my court, in the right way when it comes to the violation of Rules of Procedure 103. It's up to me to ask him if he wants the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure. You have no grounds to report under Article 103. Sasa Radulovic's MP has been in the system for a long time. I thought you called about the injury. (Saša Radulovic, from town: Replica. ( b) Replication to exposure? (Saša Radulovic, from the post: Replication of Arsic. No, you're not mentioned. No, Mr. Radulovich. (Saša Radulović, from place: Name and last name. ) Please, you have no basis for replication. (Saša Radulovic, from town: Name. ) You are not mentioned by name and name. Please, your name is not mentioned. Did you recognize yourself in one part of the discussion? I can't judge that. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: Indeed, I was mentioned by name and last name. No, just in consultation with a colleague and colleague, you're not mentioned. All right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6459	Thank you. He mentioned me by name, Mr. Arsic, when he said - a Radulovic painting in the Assembly. So he mentioned me by name.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6460	Mr. Radulovic, did Mr. Arsic express himself offensively by saying that someone was taking pictures? Is it offensive that someone is photographing in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? Maybe that's the real question. You really don't have a basis. A colleague, Srdjan Nogo, has a basis, as the Dveri parliamentary group is mentioned, that is, the Dveri political option. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6461	Dear Chairman, first of all, I would ask all the MPs when they report for the breach of the Rules of Procedure that, we point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and not to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure, to try to make it right, even in our parliamentary group, sometimes MPs make mistakes, but simply let us all try to correct it. As for the presentation of the previous speaker, I can say both the great desire and the great political drive MPs of the Dvori will have, which is that they never look like SNS MPs at all. I really hope that we will never turn into what the SNS looks like today and that we will by no means be similar to SNS politics and behavior. Indeed, I think MPs of the ruling majority, and it is very difficult for them to understand that when their head of government cannot understand the same thing, there are many things that are neither Weber, nor the IMF, nor the World Bank. So he's just the three things a man knows, and apparently he doesn't know about the great majority of the things that happen. I would like to remind you that there are no minority banks in Serbia today, 85% of the banking sector's market has been left behind. I'd like to remind you that we've left almost all the trade. I would like to remind you that foreigners have become owners of the vast majority of economic flows in Serbia. In the past 16 years, mahogany before you came to power, but you rule already here you entered the fifth year, many of your coalition partners have been in these previous 12 years in power and that's a fact. I don't know why that fact bothers you? The Courts repeat, we will fight for Serbia's economic interest and this is a feature of real, modern Serbian patriotism in the 21st century. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6462	Thank you. Replica, MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6463	I agree, the SNS and its MPs are inaccessible to a colleague who just spoke, about one light year, that's 31,536,000 seconds, multiply by 300,000 kilometers. I know what I'm saying, Mr. Zivkovic, and it's just as far away from them as it is from them to, say, Mr. Obradovic opens a new factory in Ćuprija, as incumbent Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic did today. The factory is called Eurofiber, and it will make several hundred people happy. It's just a man who needs a job, he's taken care of by an MP, and he's taken care of by the prime minister. I agree that there are many foreigners in Serbia, that the financial sector, not thanks to Alexander Vukic, but much earlier, has contributed to the majority of foreign banks. I've just made a suggestion on how we can get out of this problem. There are foreign factories. Unfortunately, there are also political parties in Serbia where the owners of the party, which made it possible for one parliamentary group, which was 5%, are something that they were unable to skip by jumping with a stick, to enter this parliament. That's the difference. Well, Dwri. That's the difference and that's the achievement.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6464	Thank you, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6465	One more thing and I'm done. For them, the light year and 50% of the votes in the elections that Aleksandar Vukic received in Serbia. When they have half of it, let them answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6466	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Vesovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6467	Article 107. The speaker at the National Assembly is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. So, the esteemed colleague who spoke before me may belong to a group of people who see the sky in the water, and thus also fish on the branch. I don't belong in that group. I don't want to discuss light years that up until a few months ago at your Parliament club were also space. My beard, Mr. Arsic, I'm not ashamed. I'm trying to learn, I'm learning very quickly, and time will show what my knowledge and knowledge has come to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6468	I don't think the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has been violated. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Dragan Vesovic, from town: No. ) The word has a People's MP Zoran Zivkovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6469	The previous speaker mentioned me and said he knew what I was saying. That would be very good if at least one part of it were true, but I'm afraid it's not. That attempt to lecture on financial charters of value and the growth of small and medium-sized enterprises by creating conditions for the Commission to provide capital for the future business and development of these companies, and then to make investors more money, that butter dog cannot eat, let alone, I tried to figure out what it was talking about for a week. I admit, I don't have that education that Arsic probably has. But, a hundred years in politics, well-fused, is about enough to learn at least some basic settings. Secondly, the previous speaker said, so you tell him, the chairman, that it is completely incorrect, that Aleksandar Vukic won over 50 votes in Serbia. Aleksandar Vukic has never run for name and last name for any function. If it may have been in some elections when the mayor of Belgrade was elected directly, then he lost, but I don't remember running alone and winning. So much for formality and truth. Are you sure that the votes your coalition and your party received, perhaps it's the merit of some others? Maybe it's because of the coalition partners in the front row in front of the pay phone. Perhaps it is the merit of that MP who in his own heart is an insult to the reputation of this House, who is not here today, and I hope that he will not come back again, if he has one of his cheeks, and I will not even mention his name. Maybe you helped. Why are you celebrating Alexander Wolfie? He does everything, he knows everything best, but maybe you've contributed a little bit to his success.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6470	Thank you. The word has a People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6471	A respected colleague who spoke before and challenged this replica should know that if he is already so sure of what he claims, why didn't his MPs and he personally voted for a polling committee that should determine what was going on on that election night? What's more, there were two proposals to form a survey board. One of those proposals was made by the head of the SNS parliamentary group. The SNS MPs themselves, including the previous speaker, but including the applicant of the proposal for the establishment of the polling committee, did not vote for their own proposal. What are you afraid of, and you can't form a committee of inquiry? Do you, for example, fear that you will see how many citizens of Albanian nationality, say, voted in Gracanica for SNS, that they have signed with Cyrillic and have identical manuscripts? Is that what we need to know? Are we going to see how it's possible that someone is missing 0.75% of one vote to cross the census? In doing so, don't forget, you've been setting up and canceling certain polling stations, declaring them valid, where in the Dvora weaker, such as Sjenica, you've declared it all, and taking down some big city cores like Starlight. So, gentlemen, if you want to figure out what's going on, let's set up a survey board. Are you in? We've made a motion again. Let's vote next time for that proposal, if you'll excuse me. I'd like to know, since the previous speaker likes to teach us economic lectures and economic lessons, we've heard that he's also taught Marks and what he's taught, what else has he taught him what makes him an expert and for values charters and for this topic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6472	The word is made by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6473	I thank you, Mr. Milicevic. Article 107 has been injured. Aleksandar Vucic ran in 2016 and the list was named Aleksandar Vucic – Serbia wins and the list received the most convincing support from Serbian citizens and thanks to the support of Serbian citizens Aleksandar Vucic is the president of the government of the Republic of Serbia. It is true that Alexander Vukic today opened a new factory in Turkey, as we will continue with this work. You continue to hate, to deceive the citizens, to tell the truth, to insult, that's your job. It is our job to promote Serbia, to allow Serbian citizens new jobs, to allow Serbia to move forward in every respect, both politically and culturally. As for what the gentleman from Dvora said, it is a lie that was given by Mr. Bosko Obradovic. Gracanica did not vote 200, as he says, for the Cypriots or Albanians for Alexander Vukic, but was voted by 200 Roma, who are citizens of Serbia for us, as are all citizens living in Kosovo and Metohija citizens of Serbia. So, it's not the Albanians, it's the Roma who, together with us Serbs, were the victims of persecution and genocide in Kosovo and Metohija and 1988 and 1999, and unfortunately later. You, Mr. Milicevic, please return the session as foreseen by the Rules of Procedure, because the political game that started yesterday continues, and I'm going to call you a little bit of me, so in the absence of time, we're all going to hit the SNS together.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6474	Thank you. Mr. Martinovic, do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I agree with you. We're going back to work. The word has been made by the MP Srdjan Nogo, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6475	Article 103 has been injured and with regard to Article 104 has been injured. Mr. Martinovic called to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and in fact he used the right to replication. I'd like to invite you to use your powers as a member of 103 and take away the time of the SNS. I really don't see why, he could have answered and replicated, if he had already wanted to engage in controversy with Zivkovic and with the MP group Dveri. Using the form of the Rules of Procedure to implement political propaganda is not the right choice. As for the constant neglect that we hate someone, I really don't think the MPs here hate anyone and I don't see why it's always being potent. I don't think we should love someone. You certainly can't make us love Alexander Vukic, and you're always hiding behind this Alexander Vukic. What's more, I think it's really hard to love Alexander Vukic, because he's really an annoying man and he's really few who can love...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6476	Mr. Nogo, you are just misusing what you have pointed to, and what has not been done by the head of the SNS parliamentary group, Aleksandar Martinovic. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Dear Members of the People, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I set a break of 60 minutes, or an hour, and we continue at 15.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6477	Is there anyone else who's authorized to come forward? No, I don't. ) We move on to the list, MP Vladimir Marinkovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6478	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is the essence of today's debate on the future president and members of the Securities Committee. What should be the goal not only of us representatives of the majority in parliament, but also of our fellow opposition parties to come up with those staff solutions that are the best and most qualified, which can best be managed by this very important institution that has a very important role in the development of the overall market and market economy in Serbia. The capital market, the banking market, the securities market is very significant and we have heard discussions of previous speakers who have well found that the situation in the area, on this plan, is not good, that there is less and less transaction on the market of securities than value, but that, of course, the securities commission has fewer and less revenue, which it is in fact including by charging a fee precisely for such transactions in the paper market of value from economic operators. So, from companies that do transactions by buying shares, broadcasting securities of value, broadcasting bonds and thus obtaining property, obtaining dividends, earning interest or earning some kind of profit. The issue of the securities market is not just a matter that is important for the state, it is not a question that is important for economic operators, for domestic and foreign companies, for the possibility of attracting fresh capital and business development or for the possibility of making good profit, but it is also a question where greater education and better education should also go to citizens themselves, therefore to private persons, but someone has talked about it also to the sector of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. A developed market of securities of value can represent a very nice possibility that, unlike the high interest offered by commercial banks, investment banks broadcasting securities from value can come to capital. In this way, it makes many companies have expanded reproduction, expand their business, verifier it, and thus be more competitive than regional companies and, of course, companies that can be competitive across Europe, but also of course at global level. What the Social Democratic Party of Serbia has been up to for several years is to try in every way to develop the market and I can say freely on behalf of the parliamentary group that we are opponents of this idea of major State and state interventionism that some colleagues here have advocated in terms of the very methodology and approach to the development of economy and business in our country. We believe that this market should be developed as a banking financial but every real estate market. In any case, it is very important that our companies could be more competitive and that the capital in this country could function more quickly at a much, much lower price that is today, which is offered by commercial or investment banks for business representatives. We have, on many occasions, talked in this esteemed home about the need to pass new laws, i.e. legislation that would demotivise renters, which would demotize those who come and acquire new capital by issuing real estate and rent. This segment, I feel free to say our economies are highly developed and it is recognised by the fact that in this domain and in this area people who deal with renting in large numbers of cases avoid paying taxes. On the other hand, the weighted capital that can be invested in new projects, in new initiatives in the new business, is going to buy real estate. So, it doesn't go into production, it doesn't go into business and the opening of new companies that can lead to competitiveness and the creation of new jobs, which is, of course, the most important thing for our country. What's the characteristic of our securities market is that, let's say, foreign investors participate in 31% of the value paper trade itself, and participation in the purchase of securities is 25%. This fact speaks enough about how good, quality foreign investors are important for the development of our country's economy and that we need even greater and even more aggressive attraction of those foreign investors who, in fact, are developing and thus having a positive impact on the development of the securities market of value, have this so-called. A spilling character. It is that they bring new technologies, new methods and governance models and, of course, create jobs and employment opportunities for those who are the most educated, best quality on the market and who have the best qualifications. I would also point out that the SDPS will, in any case, support everything that will affect the strengthening of institutions, in particular the strengthening of institutions in the area of strengthening human resources capacity in them. As a deputy member of the Committee on Finance, the budget and the control of the spending of public funds in the third term, I can also testify that, on several occasions, by considering the reports of the Securities Commission itself, we have appealed, discussed with the Commission's management at that time, within the framework of and the domain of the promotion of their work, we have tried, as Parliament and members of the board of directors, to maximise efficiency, to strengthen their educational function and improve. Unfortunately, it didn't bear fruit. Even on several occasions, we rejected their reports. So, 2011 report, 2012 report. In the end, it culminated in very bad inter-human relations in the Securities Commission itself, which has inevitably led to the fact that the Securities Commission does not produce the right results and the results that this country, the economy, but also citizens should expect from it, and that is not how they said here it affects investments, not to hire, because it is not part of the work of the Securities Commission, but to be a serious part of the institutional framework system in the Republic of Serbia, which will advance the market, which will improve the functioning of the market. We are all aware that without a well-developed market of securities, we cannot have that market economy in full capacity for which we as part of the ruling majority, or the ruling majority, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and how they advocate, and that you are the "condition of sine" policy of ours in the next three and a half years, which is the permanent work to strengthen the business environment, to strengthen the institutions that can contribute, so I am talking about state institutions and strengthening the possibility of attracting the best investors in our country from the region, Europe, but also the whole world, which is working for us so far, and I hope that we will have many, many successes in the coming period and functioning of this parliamentary majority and government of Serbia. It is not difficult for us, and what is a priority is to attract investors when it comes to our traditional partners from the EU and this is an irrevocably clear and main objective of the government of the Republic of Serbia, which is to make Serbia a full member of the EU. But, of course, we are very interested in spreading good economic relations and attracting investment, but exporting domestic companies to the United States, to the Russian Federation, the People's Republic of China, with which we are working large infrastructure projects and which have recognised Serbia as a kind of economic hub, or bridge to EU countries. I must point out that a new door is being opened, that a new space is being opened. The Prime Minister, as far as I know, arrived from Kazakhstan last night. So, it is about Serbia opening the door to economic co-operation in every country that can have the capacity and wants to invest here, to make a profit under the best possible conditions, of course in the interests of our country and what is most important to us here, in the interests of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, their families, new employment, better and good life and the creation of a modern country that has international credibility and which represents a country in which it is a pleasure to invest, in which it is a pleasure to live and, of course, young people will stay, work, move their jobs, so Serbia in which the private initiative will flourish and where, of course, institutions will work harder and better to earn the better life of our country's citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6479	Thank you. Zoran Zivkovic, prepare Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6480	And this selection of the new Charter Commission is a metaphor of the government that has been present here for the last four years. What we heard on today about how the candidates happened, when the mandate of the previous commission expired, we can see that this is a continuation of the destruction of the institutions. Without institutions, as you all know, there is no development of any country and we can drill into our breasts as much as we want and lie about being the first in the region, in the world, in history, anywhere, but it's just not true. A speaker from the afternoon said dead cold -- I forced the previous president of the commission to resign. By what law do you force someone to resign? So we heard that the commission's mandate expired on July 14th of this year, and then we're surprised because there's a new government formed only after that. The previous government was the same as this one, with little personal differences, but the same government was. How did you let the term of office expire? You knew when the election was. It was supposed to be settled before it got into that vacuum that otherwise shouldn't have existed because winning the election, you say, was brilliant. She could have formed after 15 days and not fallen behind in her term of office. A candidate. The man I see is a doctor of science, Professor. It's all nice, but it doesn't fit the conditions of the competition. Try to cloud it by studying somewhere the Canadian model of trading securities of value, it's a very nice thing, but it has nothing to do with conditions that it has to meet and which write in the very explanation itself. We got another spicy detail about how a man was elected – by the head of the Assembly's Finance Committee whispered to the head of the ruling party's parliamentary group that this one was better than the one who had been known to be a candidate for president by then. Is this how the President of the Commission is chosen for the transport of paper of value? I'm sorry, that's not how the president of the department board is chosen, or the association of all-Serb seeds and popcorn, let alone something this important. The fairy tale of us going great, it hurts us, it's embarrassing, it's hard for us how well we're doing is part of that same metaphor. fairy tales of everything being okay in Serbia. Let's see what the Belgrade Stock Exchange statistics say that has something to do with the values and conditions of the Serbian economy. In 2002, traffic on the stock market was a billion and 700m euros, in 2003 it was a billion and 400m euros. Last year was 250 million. The average of four years, since this one is perfect, is the mother's kiss, the government is about 230m euros, six to seven times less than it was in 2002 and 2003. It's the state of our economy. Another little reminder, at that time the euro cost 66.2 dinars, and today it costs 123 commas something. At that time, 150 thousand workers were employed more than today, and that is the real state of the economy. Of course it's important that we get a report on the commission's work, not a hint of what's been going on, why the previous president of the commission has been removed. There was a story that he liked to travel around the Maldives and other us far away, but friendly countries, so that's why. Is that the reason? If that's the reason, if he spent his money unintendedly, why is he a member again? Let's get a little bit more serious and see if we can do one thing with that vast majority that the government has in this House, which is that you start respecting the law, respecting the institutions, that you can throw as many lies as you want, but that won't change what you're essentially doing, which is that you're destroying this country with your untruths or that some, who don't have that level of tolerance that I have, would tell faceless lies in the most advanced way in modern Serbian history, and also in the whole world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6481	Marko Djurisic, he's not here. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6482	Thank you. Today's session almost in general and with what we have exchanged, as words and sentences, during the debate and what some MPs have, in an unimaginable way, exchanged, on the second part of the public scene, public dialogue, shows one great truth, as a practice in illustration -- your own thoughts, master, in their own words you are a servant. There are now quite a number of people who haven't thought twice before saying something and now you're going to say you're going to rule them and they're going to serve them with those words. The first illustration -- in the exchange of replicas here is said, I read from a stenogram, at the replica of the former chairman of the Finance Committee, saying: "The other thing, it is not true that some members of the commission have not been changed. I, as then chairman of the Finance Committee, forced the then president of the Commission to resign and another member." How did you get him to do it? Fingers in bolt, I'll drag you to the cover of the tabloids, the silence there, how did the chairman of the Committee on Finance of the National Assembly, the MP, force the President of the Commission and another member to resign? Knowing my colleague Arsic, that illustration of what you're thinking -- you're a master, and you're a servant in your own words, whatever he thought this was spoken of. Knowing my colleague Arsic, I know he's one of the last to abuse what the rules are when it comes to institutions, but this is spoken of. The president of the Committee has spoken – I have forced him to resign and another member. It's a paradigm of the ruling majority. Give me the right to quote in every place what the ruling coalition is as someone who doesn't understand anything about the relationship between the National Assembly and the regulatory body. Who are you to get someone to resign? What does that look like? And make it public? When she couldn't with, now I have the right and I purposely do it, my colleague Arsic will understand, what is it, Dejan Šoškić couldn't be forced? Don't worry, we'll change the law. How long? How? And then we're going to talk about European integration, we're going to talk about the rule of law when he gets up and says - I made him resign, he's not going to sit in my office as much as he likes, he has to listen. That's not how we do it. Those are the words they now master you. I am sorry that the words were thoughtlessly spoken by my colleague Arsic, because, I repeat, among the last ones who do not understand what it is about the obligations and rights of the MPs and the obligations and rights of the regulatory bodies established by this Assembly. These words give us all the right and to twist them, these words are afraid that no one here cares about anything but mocking the rule of law. Now we're going to a second set of words spoken by the candidate for president and I'm reading them from the stenogram of the session on which he represented his program. So far, it has not been answered whether the candidate has had five years of experience in securities dealings of value or not. The answer cannot be described, the answer is – there is, and then it is okay, or the answer is – there is no, and then we come into a situation that at the end of this debate the entire ruling majority will be forced to vote for a man who does not meet the conditions to be president of the Securities Commission. Why? For what? Unnecessarily, completely unnecessary. If, once and for all, you assume the will to write the rules, there's no end. It doesn't end on those you don't like, it's an infinite spiral of evil that destroys the social tissue, destroys the institutions, destroys everything that we are, when we think carefully and when the sentences don't come out, absolutely certainly, all of us here tend to work for it and build rules, the rule of law to be as it is written, not to be self-willed, not to be – I made him resign. What the candidate says, which we haven't heard of, whether or not he has five years of experience. So, the stenogram where he represented his program. I quote: “I would say, first of all, that by some deep conviction, an emotional twist is extremely important. That is why I put this definition at the beginning, although many may sound familiar or banal, but definition, it should constantly follow the Commission and give some new direction, and I think change must be essential and serious." I quote further, I do not extract from the context, quote a paragraph per paragraph, however difficult it is from the words spoken by candidate Dedeic at the Committee's session, representing what is called the candidate's programme. I further quote, the candidate says: "The other principle is that it is technical matters, meaning no interference with too much. Of course, all other state authorities, despite our dependence, if they do their job properly, will also contribute to the quality of our work." Therefore, the technical character of the regulatory, candidate for the President of the Securities Commission. "Completely speaking," I quote, "this change must take place on three levels. The first level is within the house, where it has to be a perfect organisation, the second level is at market level, where ideal co-operation with market participants has to be established, I will later work out maybe what it would look like operationally, and finally, at that international level, where we need to draw attention to ourselves that we are a serious market and that we are a serious partner and that we are a serious Commission." Furthermore, in his programme, candidate Dedeic says: "Then getting out of the house, so ready, at least in ideological terms, means talking to people who are on the front line of the market. All participants are welcome to say their criticisms, what in regulation is a real problem, what we had in common with good intentions, and it's not good, what is not good in supervision, where maybe corruption, riding, whatever. Of course, we can't make a miracle, but we can be the keeper of the rules of the game, provide protection for the investor, secure a fair match and an attractive market and, in the end, be someone who keeps a good record of systemic risk on the market." Furthermore, the candidate for the president of the Charter of Values, Dedeic, says, "The secretary of the Commission at this point, as I have seen in those internal acts, is somehow a faceless person. The secretary should be a very important figure. He's also in corporate governance a very significant figure. It must be the guardian, the protector of legality within the Commission, the consistency of conduct, the relationship between segments etc. I think he deserves a more serious position. In addition, it inherits everything, that it may remain, and when we change, that it may be he who is the voice of that continuity." These three sentences, even if there were five years of work experience in the work of paper values, that there are 10, these few sentences are enough that all MPs, members of the Committee on Budgets and Finance, say – thank you sir for taking advantage of your time and for being with us, because in these sentences he shows that he has neither read nor read one of the laws that define the position of the Commission of securities of value, nor knows what is the authority of the secretary and, worst of all, nor knows what its jurisdiction is. Furthermore, I quote -- the candidate for president of the Dedeic Charter Commission says this -- "public relations", here, negatively in the public, disaster, "must be at the highest level, starting with the site, I singled out him as extremely important, as an up-to-date one. I've looked at the Commission's website now, there's some unscheduled stuff. It's not good, it's not bad, but it's not good when we don't find the right information. So here, the media presence, the organisation of some major events, all these regulators around Europe organize once a year some extremely large event, the academic public, they're all there and they have something to say, if we listen to them, we can take a step forward. So, different forms, not to speak to everyone – stands, workshops, etc. Also, I would like to introduce some elements, since I have been in charge of this quality of the process within the Belgrade Banking Academy, this self-evaluation, I think it is very important. The department when you evaluate yourself, and when you cross that information, you know, it's all on man. When he runs the department and does a good self-evaluation and he's responsible for it and he's respected, I think every problem comes to people. “ So if one of the members missed out on thanking him before he talked about the secretary being some faceless person, this was the last moment to thank him for his presence on the Committee and reminding him that he was obliged to read the laws defining the Commission’s property. The candidate has, it's the last quote I'm going to share with you, the idea that the Securities Commission should be educated by corporate governance, because it says, I quote: "corporated governance is one of the pillars of the capital market, also certified for it, world economies have slipped on it, etc. So, some ideas that there's room to distract us through it, not through some empty promotion. So, I think the financial directors are missing from the serious market and there's room for some education that similar bodies do, of course, work together. “ I hope that this section and these sentences were never meant to come. What does the Securities Commission actually do? The Securities Commission, symbolically, therefore, was formed as early as 1990s, is one of the first new time blackouts in Serbia, as a message that there will be a market economy, that there will be regulation building and that there will be reforms that allow for everything we stand for today in the democratic system. The Securities Commission has so far changed six compositions, including one where the President of the Commission has been forced to resign and another member, and it has five members, including the President of the Commission. They are elected and resolved by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on a proposal from the competent working body for the National Assembly's financial affairs. The Commission shall be represented by the President. For its work, the commission is accountable to the National Assembly and is obliged to submit an annual report to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia within four months of the end of the financial year. If you look at the Commission's value charter website, you will find a report for 2015. However, due to the shortcomings in the procedure of our Rules of Procedure, we had no debate on this report either on the Committee or on the tide. By listening to the conclusion, today's debate, I can only repeat - today's debate is full of just illustration, "I think of my master, you are a servant." Unfortunately for me, too many Members of the people will serve this debate with their thoughtless words, which are nothing but common damage, whether motivated by the character of a verbal bully, or by the character of someone who represents an institution sent to this president who is elected and who you will vote on, despite the sentences he has shared with you in his address to the Committee, because he must know – he may be forced to resign, whenever he wishes to be so. From that, neither benefits for the ruling coalition nor benefits for institutions, nor benefits for securities of value, nor benefits for what we all stand for in words equally, which is for the paper market of values that will advance, grow and be the best in the region. There was no use for self-will, neither will it be, nor can it be, and the damage is always common. I am therefore very sorry that I had to quote the words of a candidate who does not deserve to address the Committee in any position and on any basis, and not be elected in any day for the President of the Securities Commission. But we'll make it easy, it's another message and a common harmful message for this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6483	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6484	There is a folk proverb that says: “To whom power lies the topus, its traces smell like inhumanity. ” And someone else is saying something about resigning, who forced him, from a political party that was replaced by 900 judges and prosecutors, first, without explanation, and then the arguments were written by a copy-paisy, just changing their name. And they're talking about how someone made someone. For the sake of truth, first of all, no Commission report was adopted financially for 2012, 2013 and 2014 and you don't know how the gentleman acted at the time the current President of the Commission, when he came to the Finance Committee, when he told us all, I wasn't the president, that we didn't know anything and who we were to examine his report. That's when your MP in the next meeting, Borko Stefanovic, head of the parliamentary club, asked me to replace him immediately for this. I asked him to adapt the Financial Business Plan for 2015, be careful, he's already spending money, the Law on employees in the authorities of the state administration on determining coefficients and profits. I gave you a six-month deadline. It's not done. It was a fair offer – either it will go to the Parliament's prey to discuss it or resign. I don't understand why you're defending this gentleman so much. It's the one that was, I don't know, in the Maldives. There's no exotic destination he didn't visit when he was president of the Commission.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6485	Thank you. Three minutes. Replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6486	Thank you. There is no libel, lie, impatience wrapped in a message to the Democratic Party that can hide the fact that the chairman of the Finance Committee said: "I forced him to resign, both him and the member. I made him a fair offer. “ Who are you to make a fair offer to anyone, any? Is there a law binding on the chairman of the Budget and Finance Committee? Is there a law that obliges the President of the Securities Commission? Who are you to judge whether he has fulfilled your fair offer or not? All the kind of childlike to safety from the ratings-efendi in the message boxing made, just attack. We'll shut them up, if not in the Assembly, then on the front pages. It's all for nothing, absolutely for nothing. You're neither the first nor the last to think that slandering the Democratic Party can do anything good for the state, because it can't. But with what you're doing, making someone resign is a common shame of mine and yours. I don't even know the name of that man. And you won't believe me, I would say the same thing if he were the most respected member of the Serbian Progressive Party, I would say the same if it were the government of the Serbian Radical Party, the DSS, anyone, because that's what we're sitting in this assembly for. That's the deep misunderstanding we have. Hit them and keep your mouth shut.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6487	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6488	These are all literary works. I don't mind DS. No one can tell me at any point that I've had a hate speech for all these years. But does a esteemed colleague know that the Finance Committee has already initiated a resolution procedure? He put it on the agenda. So, most of the board members, not most of them, were unanimous and a member of the DS then, and the president of your Parliament Club voted for it. Borko Stefanovic, first name and last name, I tell you. There was a consensus in the entire Financial Committee to initiate the procedure for its resolution before the National Assembly. It is true that he spent and paid enormous earnings to employees contrary to the Law on Employees in the Authorities of the State Administration. That he held that largest investment held by the DS government and Boris Tadic, Mirko Cvetkovic, by selling the Maxi. She lived that commission, paid for her travels, increased earnings to 60% of that privatisation. And you're telling me that's the kind of guy you should be raising?- I'm sorry. I don't think so. Each of us wears his cross. It's just, not just for what he did, but for what he didn't do, and he had to do it. Can you wear yours?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6489	Thank you, Ambassador. I think that's enough. Let's move on to the discussion. There was a lot of debate between the SPS and the DS on what the former chairman of the Finance Committee said. Milorad Mircic. Here you go. Let Zdravko Stankovic prepare himself, if he is there, and if not, then Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6490	In the first 15 minutes, it was a pleasure to hear the same in similar resolutions, so this whole literary evening or day, it comes down to the fact that those who created you are now trying to criticize you, and you're not. But let's get back to the agenda. As far as the Securities Commission is concerned, it is not easy for future elected members, nor the Commission, because there is a big, huge job ahead of it. And at this point, don't interpret anything other than well-intentioned from us Serbian radicals almost impossible work when it comes to the Commission. The Commission must restore above all regularity, and then trust. Regularity in the capital market, in the stock market, in securities of value. It is hard to come back because the moment the horsemen of the apocalypse Bozidar Djelic, Vlahović, Pitic and of course Dinkic, as the old saying goes, fully adapted the capital market, especially the stock market, to their personal needs and the needs of the people close to them. As a reminder, Miskovic, Beko, Djunic and the others were the closest from the tycoon circle. He can't even remember everyone. It was nothing further than Victoria Group, but they used the current government, or the current government to gain enormous wealth. Let's just remember how and how the values of stock exchanges were evaluated and determined, how the securities of value were treated in the first place and how they were treated. The value of the action should come from a simple logic from the relationship of need and demand. We are witnesses that the actions of small shareholders at the time were purchased literally, which would have been people's to say, for small money, for the tepsy of fish, that majority tycoons, majority owners, tycoons, loved ones of the regime at the time would have absolute control in the companies they bought. Here they deal with some arbitrary statistical data, as the stock exchanges did better or worse during certain periods. These markets have never operated or functioned within the framework of law and regulation, it has always been and how the authorities or individuals representing the government were dosed and overemphasized. Only, for example, not to forget, Bozidar Djelic came to sleep with his aunt on the couch, thanks, among other things, to securities of value, manipulation, services he did, he left Serbia as a man who owns an estimated 10m euros. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the city: Billions. It's not Mr. Zivkovic's billions, it's millions. Maybe you have better information, you haven't been far from the fire, I don't think you've burned as much as they have. It didn't work out for you, it didn't work out for you, the first four classes just went hand in hand and don't throw it away, you have to respect some order.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6491	Ambassador, I'll warn them. Don't worry about anything. You focus on the subject. I'll warn them.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6492	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6493	And second time, no problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6494	Thank you, exactly. What is very important, which is that this regularity implies that all of those charters are guaranteed against the values that come from both the republican level of government and from the province and local ones to be somehow protected from the state of Serbia, not to be manipulated with them. We have an example that the previous government at the local level and on the province aired securities of value to cover most of the existing dubiosis in the budgets of local self-government, i.e. the province government. It is something that must be taken into account both by this commission and by all those in charge of controlling securities of value, to be respected by all economic rules and economic legality, not by the will and political desire of the current government where it could possibly be misused to show it as something that is minus the previous authorities at the province and local level. That would be bad for Serbia. Those actions must have a guarantee. The guarantee is the value behind these actions, and the value that stands is exactly the value at the local level, or at the province level. That value is real when such securities of value have been broadcast. What no less needs to be taken into account is that the value of those charters guaranteed for assets held in Kosovo and Metohija such as Trepca, such as part of Telekom, has to be respected and that it is literally clear to the end whether these records are issued by companies that are in Kosovo and Metohija can be used. It is hard to believe this story told by the main man for Kosovo and Metohija, which, behold, is called Marko Djuric. Something inconclusive is his story with this Telekom about the calling number, and it's certainly hard for those creditors or those who would possibly participate in the purchase of the action. As he explains, all other Serbia's only new international number 383 belongs to Kosovo. As those interested in participating in the purchase of securities of value respond, that is the question. That applies to one part of the trust. Trust is restored by the state, or government, to stand at its full capacity behind all of this, and not just by the members of the Commission. As far as personal solutions are concerned, we Serbian radicals are not too interested in commenting. The President-in-Office, in the case of members and situations where new possibly members of the Commission are located, will ultimately show whether these objections are justified by the authorised representative, and it is up to us to try, as always honest, to help. As far as the president's candidate is concerned, there's not a lot of importance to be given. First, in order for a man to be in such a prominent position, except for those general conditions, he must also satisfy some moral principles. What we, dear colleagues from the opposition, are doing just as we are pushing for perfection, and at the head of the central financial institution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Bank is a person who, of course, is quite disputable when it comes to morality. Just to remind you, the governor of the National Bank once, a few years ago, not as long ago as I might stress, stole the mandate of the SRS. Do you know how to qualify a thief? The thief steals what's in his hand. It's hard to trust people like that who, at some point, have an opportunity to take what's other people's, in this case a mandate, so they took it. The question is how will this mandate end in the first place and how this career will end in the first place. So, it does not need to be particularly stressed that the candidate is for the president, as they said, regardless of not meeting these basic conditions, but he meets some form. He is a man who teaches at the university, it is this banking academy, otherwise famously recognized in the world and the environment, so that it could be better said, and on the other hand, he participates in this already famous University of the Union, which is generating all intellectuals, intellectual gromads, not a small number of such giants are in the ranks of the ruling coalition, of course, there are also in the ranks of the opposition. But what's the tragedy of Serbia, which you from the Union University, where the owner of that university himself admits that there's something wrong with the papers, so his diploma is pretty suspicious, but it doesn't matter, it's a form. It is important that the future candidate for president meets that form, he also taught at the University of the Union. And in Serbia, as soon as you say the sound names of those universities, the university, an ordinary man will tell you right away -- it's the same as the president of the state, he's been muttering, he's forged something, something's wrong with it. As far as the other candidates are concerned, we in the U.S.S. every time we criticise, we criticize well-intentioned. If you didn't get the wrong idea, if we had a personal thing against the candidates, we didn't want to be present as members in selecting these candidates for a number of reasons. One reason that is leading, for which no Serbian radicals attended is the next. At the time of the greatest anarchy of socialism, it's this so-called self-administrative socialism, you had commissions who were listening and evaluating candidates who had laid down traineeships, so you had one absurd that, say, a magician, that someone didn't feel called here who was the profession, questioned a graduate lawyer, an economist, an engineer about his expertise, about his knowledge. But it's all covered by the fact that self-government socialism at the time provided that. As far as I know and we're convinced, we're Serbian radicals that after Tito died, that self-government socialism also died. It's a little inappropriate for magicians, apparently, to continue to question doctors, professors, graduate lawyers. You have a case where even one member of the Commission, a colleague, not to appoint him, tells the candidate – I disagree with you, as if he's an opponent and they choose him. Well, then he wants to flash or make an impression on us members of the Committee on Budget and Finance, and then he actually shows that he's finished or doctored or perfected himself at that Union University. So, it's not quite certain that they're good criteria when selecting individuals. It is not appropriate, regardless of the congregation’s jurisdiction, to regulate it in a completely different way. To preserve the integrity of both these people and these candidates, and that we MPs who are members of these committees don't have any problems, if anything else, that intellectual part of those committees that doesn't carry someone, under the assumption, on their souls. We spray radicals will vote against this composition, because we have a large reserve and restraint when it comes to competence, when it comes to expertise, and when it comes to the further functioning of this Commission, because a lot has changed in the world as well, on a global scale, when it comes to action and securities of value. And you see that there has been a disturbance and the state has to interfere, but not in a way that individuals represent the state, but the state to intervene in order to protect its economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6495	Thank you. The word is Alexandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6496	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, respected colleagues, these are neither the elections for the president of Serbia nor for the governor of the NBS. This is where we choose the president and members of the Securities Committee. In the biography of Professor Predrag Dedeic, in Section 4, you can read that for 10 years he was a professor at the University of Agriculture and at the Belgrade Banking Academy. Just because you're in pain that college is part of the Union University, every university has several colleges. What happened at other universities, we can't know that, but we know what was going on and who was a professor at the Belgrade Banking Academy. It's ugly to drag people through the mud whether they're working at a private or state university, because that's how we hurt ourselves, because those teachers are supposed to teach someone's children. It's not right, then, no matter what committee we're talking about today, we're talking about it and we're questioning their moral and professional qualities because we're trying to figure out if it's someone who's pissed us off in political life in the past, whether we loved him or not, so now we don't love him. So don't do that with people who are teachers. So he's a ten-year professor at the state college and he's worked parallelly in Belgrade for ten years, where he's doing it today as a professor. I don't think it's a place to use every opportunity just as a reason that they're using us to now mention whether it's Tomislav Nikolic, Aleksandar Vukic, Yorker or anyone else, I ask you to, colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6497	Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6498	Dear colleagues, we understand each other. We do not speak Serbian radicals to demean any individual, but to speak what is commonly known. It is also widely known in public for a long time, the other side when it comes to this university. Of course, there are honest and honest ones, the highest number of honest and honest individuals, professors and employees at that university. As for comparisons, you know, you must have some etalon. In all countries, it is the ethlons that are in the most prominent functions. You have to compare someone's morality to someone who's in a very, very prominent function. You must compare a man who is a candidate or members of this Charter Committee with someone who is even more prominent. Who has more prominence than the one who stole the mandates of the SRS? The thief is a thief, you have to understand, depending on the situation and how much he can steal, he'll steal.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6499	Ambassador, speak to me, according to the Rules of Procedure, to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6500	I've been looking at no one. I've been looking at you for the last 30 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6501	Just me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6502	What's the point, don't take it the wrong way, don't take it personally, we're just talking here for good purposes, we have bad experiences. There is no worse experience than when these four horsemen of the apocalypse captured Serbia and held for control of both the stock market and the securities of value and capital trade. It's the worst period that Serbia has been through. Which would make you angry if you had to replace someone who stole the mandate tomorrow. He stole, he stole, he can't take that fact, so there's a colleague here who's giving us a lesson from the economy, he did the same thing, stole our mandate from the Serbian radicals. What do we need to keep quiet? Well, we don't want to keep our mouths shut. Have them return the mandate, and we'll keep our mouths shut.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6503	Thank you. It's been a while. Thank you. The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6504	I thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Article 107 has been injured. Here, I didn't steal anything from you. Until a few years ago with the same passion I spoke negatively of Tomislav Nikolic, so you laugh well, but what I can say is the following. Tomislav Nikolic won that famous university degree in 2007. In 2008, he was a candidate of the Serbian Radical Party for the President of the Republic of Serbia. In May 2008, there were both parliamentary and rural and local elections. You know, Mr Mircic, just like I did, as was the local list of "Serbian Radical Party – Tomislav Nikolic". It is the same Tomislav Nikolic whose degree you are talking about. You're talking about Telecom. You say Marko Djuric has betrayed Serbian interests in Kosovo and Metohija when it comes to "Telecom", and those in the Albanian Self-Determination movement say -- their authorities have issued Albanian national interests because Marko Djuric negotiated a good thing for Serbia. A daughter of Telekom company in Kosovo and Metohija, 100 per cent owned by Telekom, will be established. I now don't understand how Marko Djuric issued the interest of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, when it comes to the Serbian firm in the 100% ownership of "Telecom" of Serbia, the state-owned enterprise of the Republic of Serbia. It's not true that the caller number will be with the foreign state, but with the territory.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6505	Ambassador.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6506	I must say this, Mrs. Gojkovic, so as not to remain in the air if anyone in Kosovo and Metohija had betrayed anything. So we kept what could have been preserved. Telecom will continue to operate and the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija will... (Serb Radical Party emissaries earn. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6507	I ask Miljan Damjanovic to behave politely.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6508	Feel free to make some money. (Miljan Damjanovic throws.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6509	I can't hear you. (Miljan Damjanovic throws.) I'm not even Milorad Mircic. He wasn't talking about the subject, he was talking about other things. I'm sorry you're yelling at me. I'm sorry I put up with the days here to have MPs yell at me. Don't yell. I have nothing to talk to you about. I have nothing to talk to you about. I don't have anything. We're not at the bar. (Miljan Damjanovic throws.) Miles, you'll get a warning. You can't react politically and yell at the MPs. You can't. It's not political communication in the parliament that I run. And I can't do it alone. I really can't do it alone. If you're going to act like this, here's your Rules of Procedure, here's everything, do whatever you want from this House. Innocentties in parliament as much as you want politically, as long as you want, only when he provokes you and you don't provoke him. Zdravko Stankovic is not here. Balsa Bozovic, she's not here. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6510	How much time do I have in the Rules of Procedure? Huh?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6511	I don't understand what "a" means, but I'll try to answer you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6512	I asked how much time I had left.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6513	You have 13 minutes and 18 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6514	We have reached the point of the agenda where, on a proposal from the competent committee, which has accepted the proposal from the candidate of the relevant majority, we are choosing members of the Securities Commission. Of the five candidates proposed, we have two who already have a rich experience that the Securities Commission should never work. Before I say anything about the proposed candidates, as far as their names, last names, work biographies and some other things that are important to the choice, I must give a big commendation. This is one of the few laws where the law stipulates that when selecting one of the proposed candidates for such a high function, it does not ask the National Assembly that it is governed by the principle that it is known and great experts. In this law, it is a good solution unlike, say, the National Bank Act, where there are also conditions, but there is a supplement – an exceptional expert, so we also had great experts in economics – mathematicians at the National Bank in the Council. The statistician I kicked out of work has become a great expert on monetary policy, and I see that now as a pensioner, he's running statistics. This is a good law in that part that there is no excessive morale about some great profession, because wherever that condition appears, then it is the only criteria for choice – it has a diploma. Probably because of this eruption, the volcanic character, the diploma. Someone realized that diploma wasn't so important anymore. Besides these good things, this law has one bad thing. Why the bad thing? It does not allow the Committee on Finance to test candidates, because when it comes to the Public Procurement Act and the Commission, there is the authority of the Finance Committee and they are testing. What's the condition for selecting candidates? That he meets around all the conditions for the judge of the basic court and then the Financial Committee organises tests, 80 potential issues, gets out as a lottery, 40, they respond and then members of the Committee on Finance, the laymen, evaluate the university knowledge and knowledge from the judicial exam. This law is good, because it doesn't have that problem. What's wrong with this law? The status and position of the Securities Commission is not valid in this law. Why isn't it good? The Securities Commission is a legal person, so, just like the legal face of the Republic of Serbia, it is independent, but it is also an organisation of the Republic of Serbia. There's another interesting thing. In defining the Commission's competence for securities of value, Article 262 paragraph 2 provides that out of 19 transactions from the Commission's competence for securities of value, even 12 are treated with entrusted state-owned transactions. Co-operation and the conclusion of agreements with international organisations, drawing up reports, improving investor education and other jobs have not been entrusted. So, if you look at what's prescribed by law and what's the status of the Securities Commission, then you have to be the members of the Commission of people who fully meet the conditions for civil servants plus an addition that is unequivocally pointing to the profession. We don't have that criterion, it's not fulfilled. For example, the candidate for president of this commission, imagine he's from the Belgrade Banking Academy, there's a professor, he teaches financial law and business law. But there are cases at that three-year academy that directly refer to securities of value and the financial market. And, let's say, the subject of the financial market is held by Professor Eric, not Professor Dedejic. Then, the stock exchange is held by Ismail Musabegovic, not held by Predrag Dedejic. Furthermore, the object of investment in paper value is held by Zoran Grubisic, if one of these were proposed for the Securities Commission, I would sort of understand it, but this man doesn't have some big touch points with stock exchanges, with securities of value. From what I hear, when you were talking to him on the committee, he almost admitted that he hadn't caught a record of value in his life. He doesn't even know what it looks like. How is the Commission's work on securities financed from value? Over payment of services, and for that there is a tariff, and if in one year they charge more than they planned to spend, they are obliged to make reserves, so if next year they charge a lot more than they spend that surplus should go into the budget. I just heard that this Securities Commission is doing very negative business on the market. I don't blame them because it's the wrong law, absolutely wrong law. I am very politically glad that everything the Securities Commission does did did did did not live in a good way in Serbia. Why? We've prevented much greater damage. The fact that the stock market can't work, which financial derivatives are in this state, is a good thing for Serbia, because Serbia is at a crossroads where it's always going round and round, it's not known where the EU is, which way it should be going, and these delusions for these 16 years with trails and trails where it's been going, usually some like some that you just mentioned, and now there's practically no material possibility and potential for that kind of abuse. Since everything that is done with the law is getting its surreal appearance in practice, someone has reminded "Knjiz Miloš" etc., I must remind myself that, in time, the Securities Commission has made it possible for the non-public show and to buy "Metals Bank" shares of the Regional Finance Secretariat, and the autonomous province does not have the status of a privileged buyer and is later reportedly the "Development Bank". Although they immediately arrested that chairman of the executive board at the end of 2008, and then it opened, there was a Darko Saric. Now, as far as these proposed candidates are concerned, the candidate for the President of the Commission, people, does not meet the conditions. There are other candidates who allegedly meet the conditions. One of the candidates gave an interesting biography, I will read it, says – organisational and social skills of candidates. A responsible person, he says to himself, is a responsible person, capable of working under pressure and managing available time. Ambitious and focused on results, be careful, spit out the yuppies, able to organize and participate in smaller and larger teams. A person with integrity and high ethical values, able to establish and maintain good business relations and co-operate with people from different cultural environments. That's what a man wrote about himself. Anyway, he's in basketball. A member of the Fantazi Nova basketball team competing in Serbia's business league. Waterpolitan and tennis player. He's got a bio with a picture, sent a picture to see if he's successful. Yeah, nice picture. We have a candidate under regular number three. He says what his strategic advantage is, why you have to choose him. He says he works on a computer, you take care of it, and imagine having a driver's license, says he has a driver's license. However, I must also commend him he has passed the only expert exam to carry out legal transactions in the field of securities of value and financial market. Otherwise, this fifth candidate, he has also worked for some investment funds, etc., which can indicate that conflicts of interest and some abuses may arise in the perspective. As for that candidate who has already served as president, his work résumé is the Ministry of Finance, the European Investment Bank, the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe. Otherwise, thanks to the multicultural support he has, he is a member of the Jewish municipality in Belgrade. And he says he's already been to the Securities Committee. He knows what's going on out there. As far as the only female candidate is concerned, I think it's enough to just remind myself that after a month of the start of this National Assembly meeting, one of the MPs from the previous assembly has told me - it's a shame that this law does not involve testing and talking to candidates to see which candidate it is, so that you smile sweetly, because the archivist and the dactylographer have the advantage and can be chosen. I think no matter what this continuity is, the law provides, that you know, that the term of office has expired is not an issue under the law that they continue to work. There's one member of the law that makes it possible and it's nothing controversial, but I don't think working biographies are going to allow these candidates to be voted on.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6515	Okay. Miljan Dajmanovic has no more time. I'm sorry. (Zoran Krasic, from the place: What for. I'm having a hard time. Otherwise we've known each other for 26 years. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6516	Dear People's MPs, I can say that the previous speaker was really good and he hit the point and the target. Although it is not from my parliamentary group, I have to agree with it, I am very sorry to say why MPs of the ruling majority did not listen to the presentation of the previous MP. They were busy talking to each other and serving each other, probably some fame...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6517	Ambassador, don't let me start talking about who's bringing in coffee, water and sandwiches. Let's talk about the darkness.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6518	I never brought any coffee, no water, no sandwiches. Congratulations, colleagues.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6519	Don't introduce that rule. I'll pay you back all the time. Don't introduce it because all MPs bring in food, coffee and water and sandwiches. Don't. And if I told you who did it, it'd be an avalanche. Don't. Let's get on with it. I'll pay you back all 30 seconds just don't talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6520	As for the Securities Committee, I think we have a big problem that the Securities Commission will not be able to achieve its role, because in order to ensure that this institution works, we need to see what happened before and until we can figure out what happened from 2000 to today in this country, unfortunately our institutions will not be able to continue. Because the irrefutable fact is that in 16 years someone who was presented to us as a transition and privatisation has completely robbed and devastated this country. Tens and hundreds of different companies that have been built for decades have gone into the hands of a small number of people. The transition had two rounds, firstly the capital was concentrated in the hands of a few tycoons and criminals who were connected to then the ruling political oligarchy, and later in the second phase, one good part of the strategic resources went to the hands of foreigners. Because the transition meant that at the end of the day, the foreigners needed you to be who would keep strategic resources here, and the crumbs remained local tycoons, who were still hoping that they would be like a comparative elite that would run Serbia, for the expense of foreigners, but obviously they were wrong. Look, until we clear it up and break it up, we can't move on. The Securities Commission has been an accomplice in all these processes. Nothing could have happened if there were no accomplices to the Securities Commission. Are we acting crazy or do we not know that there were such controversial privatisations in this country? Is the Securities Commission responsible for the previous business? Even a representative of the SNS criticized himself in his presentation. I must say, I forgot to deny myself in the previous bloc, that there was no agreement between Mr. Arsic and me, that we were calling each other, so that we could retaliate with each other, for which we were accused by Mr. Martinovic, absolutely. I can now say that Mr. Arsic was right when he criticised the work of the Securities Commission in the previous period. He was absolutely right. To remind the citizens of Serbia, only on two or three ecaclient examples. Look out, did "C Market" happen to us? Do you yourself claim that Miskovic has ruined this country? He bought the C Market for 45 million and sold it for 535 million? The example was used by Mr. Arsic. The Securities Commission, what's its role? Remember that the "C market" was in the hands of most minority shareholders. It does, because the Securities Commission has been appointed as the extended arm of majority owners who were tasked with eliminating competition and, in this case, minority shareholders. The same is true of Luke Belgrade. Watch out for "Luka Belgrade", shall we talk about it? I agree you were not in power then, except perhaps Miss Tomic, who was part of the DSS, and the DSS was unfortunately responsible for securities of value during that period. So, 45m euros in Vol Fine buys, and there are 31 thousand euros in the account, buys Luke Belgrade for the value of an action that is far less than the book value. But you'll say it was a previous period and I agree. Okay, the previous period, but what about the period when you're in power - from 2015 and 2016? Here's an example for that. Why did the Securities Commission not react when the Central Register recently allowed the forced purchase of the actions of small shareholders of the AIK Bank that were placed under stock because it was the only way to protect Miodrag Kostic? Stocks were purchased at a price of 1,800 while the book value was 5 thousand 550 dinars, so three times higher. But be careful, that's not all. So this is 2016. In 2015, the Commission did not react when AIK Bank purchased, i.e. Miodrag Kostic, buying her own shares from the Serbia Electroprivreda, to exceed 90% of the ownership to enable her to forcefully buy out actions by minority shareholders. The AIK Bank action package held by Serbia's Elektroprivreda was worth 20m euros in bookkeeping and sold for sixm euros. A decision by the Government of the Republic of Serbia has been broken that the actions held by the EPS should not be sold at a lower price than the accounting one. A state-owned EPS company has been damaged and the doors for the robbery of small shareholders have been opened. What do we do now? Some trouble in the O.R., okay. I'm glad I got your attention. I also believe that the gentleman who was proposed to the president, otherwise as far as I know he is not a SNS proposal, but rather the proposal of Mr. Rasim Ljajic's party, absolutely strayed into this Charter of Values institution, absolutely has nothing to do with the work that he will do, probably it is best recommended to be the first man of the Securities Commission but I would like to tell you exactly one thing, we were one of the five parties who proposed a person to be a member of the Securities Commission. Among other things, it's about this protection of small shareholders. It is precisely a proposal that our candidate has submitted and one of the proposals for work, something that is not sufficient and that I would like to have personally seen that one of the candidates here has proposed, and above all the president, candidate for the future president, whom you will probably vote on. It is necessary to take into account the existing legislation of the Company Act in the area of protection of shareholders from forced buying-in in respect of the price of those purchases in terms of determining the criteria for its determination of the average price, which would cover some longer period of price formation of those actions, all with a view to protecting those shareholders and making it impossible for them to do harm. Deadline 31.12.2016. That's what we suggested. Among other things, he suggested that our candidate what the Securities Committee should do and that I do so publicly and hope that the ruling majority will agree with it and that its elections in the future commission will carry out such a thing in order to finally get the capital market. We really don't have a capital market in Serbia. You weren't in power in 2000 when all this was happening and when it was chosen that instead of a large number of people owning shares and really establishing the capital market, it was all handed over into the hands of the minority. Now let's get going and fix things. At least let's agree that these 250 people who are now in parliament, there are plenty of new MPs, young people and parties that used to be in power, so now there are some new generation leading those parties. Now let's go from this 2016 to trying to bring order into society and move somewhere in a better direction. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6521	Alexandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6522	I thank the chairman. First, personally to respond to the general DSS, it is true, I am one of the founders of the DSS who left 2005 when the prime minister became Dr Vojislav Kostunica and I am not ashamed of it. The policy represented by the party since its founding until it led the state was completely different and the political shift it made obviously cost political careers because it no longer exists on the political scene with that man at the head of the party. So, first, you get the word out and then you attack. When it comes to the candidates you've proposed in front of the Devera, I've received information for much larger experts to be proposed by your parliamentary group. That didn't happen. On the other hand, your candidate for this post yesterday said he spent a long time at AIK Bank with a seven thousand-euro salary. So now the same question is raised – what are the motives for you to come to the commission with such high wages unless you have a certain need to finish your specific jobs that you did before through that commission? So what you're citing as basic characteristics, or attacks on these candidates that we've proposed simply stands for your political reasons, not your professional reasons. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6523	The word has Srdjan Nogo.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6524	You noted that the biography of candidates we proposed was really successful, given that it was one of the biggest experts in Serbian banking and the woman who created that bank, but as you know, a few years ago she left the bank and is now working in second place. I'm sure you've been informed of that. I can agree with one thing you said. I absolutely think it's a great demagogue that someone who has drastically higher incomes is giving up these receipts and coming to work in some state service for about 90 or 100 thousand dinars. We've seen it before, and it's already mentioned here. Let's say, Mr. Bozidar Djelic who left a lot of pay in Paris so he came to sleep with his aunt on the couch and how he left, but that's not the only case. We had, for example, in the previous meeting of Minister Kori Udovicki who left a salary of 20 thousand dollars to come to work for 100,000 dinars in Serbia, and previously she was also within the DOS government governor of the NBS. Mrs. Cory Udovici, I believe that for patriotic reasons, she left 20 grand to come for 100,000 dinars, and you didn't leave this government alone, so she can probably talk about the quality of that work. Let's introduce a society that doesn't have demagogy. If we really want to have the best people in state functions and if we want these people not to steal, we have to pay those people. If you really think that someone in the state believes that Aleksandar Vukic is working for 100,000 dinars and that's all he has and property incomes, then you really are the last naive people in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6525	Like the authorized Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6526	Right now, we're coming up with how anyone sees the state and how they look at the posts in the government of the RS. This is not the first time Alexander Vucic participated in the government, and for the first time with the same property he entered the government with. What are you talking about now? Demagogy is someone working for their country? Do any of you know how nice it is when you do something for your country? Do any of you know how happy and fulfilling you are? I may know a little bit about it, but obviously if you do, do you really believe he has a hundred grand salary? Yeah, I do, because I've been in politics a little longer, and I have the same property I had 16 years ago. What's the problem here? Someone thinks they should come to power to steal? I don't see that it's okay, that the government's instrument is a way to get rich? He can't, in this government he can't do it and don't get into that story anymore. Or are you asking yourself that this is your intention if you come to power? That's no way to tell stories like that. One more thing, as is often mentioned, is that in Serbia there is a difficult life, and one who runs the state is responsible for every citizen, for every child, for every man, for every pensioner. If you want to take care of them, as you talk about families – yes, I want to help...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6527	Thank you, MP. The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6528	Ladies and gentlemen, exactly 122 years ago, somehow at this time, in November, or November 21st, 1894, the first stock exchange was made in the Serbs, the first Belgrade Stock Exchange. By then, those few investors and those few producers were trading on two markets, on a stock exchange in Vienna and in the Pesta Stock Exchange. Eight years before the formation of the first Serbian Stock Exchange, the government of the Kingdom of Serbia passed a law on public exchanges, eight years should have been made a stock exchange. The stock exchange was built by a private institution, a company that was involved in trade. It was supposed to take a few more months to start trading on that stock market. And trade, trade in foreign exchanges, stocks, bonds, goods. In a period when Serbia was not at war, it cannot be said that the stock market was a tremendous success, i.e. the whole capital market. There were 40 companies listed on the stock exchange, and about 100 other companies that were in function of capital appeared. Generally, I make this historic intersection for one simple reason, because I want to say that there was no developed financial market in Serbia in the 19th century or in the 21st century. When it was traded, it was actually traded with a key economic parameter, which is when you had a country that was in the deficit, so it couldn't settle its costs and issue bonds. The best trade between the two world wars was war reparation bonds, as in our time it was bonds of old foreign currency savings. Of course, today we choose the Securities Commission, an institution that is extremely important for the functioning of the financial market. If you want to say what the essence of the Securities Commission is, then its basic role is the role of regulation to define and function, allowing investors, as well as those offering their services on the market, to have clear and correct principles. Of course it's necessary and transparent. In Serbia for a long time, practically since the 1990 stock market was re-launched, you have two schools of different ways of thinking. You have a small narrow circle of people who are financially and businessly connected to the stock market and who expects the stock market to make a profit, such opinions can be heard today in the Assembly, and a harsh reality that says that in Serbia it is actually difficult to talk about the developed financial market. The reason for that should be sought first and foremost in mentality. Mentality is a fundamental problem why financial markets in Serbia and other Balkan countries, as well as in Europe, cannot function. First of all, you have an agreement that investors in the countries of Europe, the central part, prefer more by investing their financial assets in their assets, i.e. in their properties or in their businesses, while doing less by buying stock and stock bonds. This is not the case with the situation as it is in America, so it is difficult to talk and even the functioning of the stock market across the Atlantic and the stock market that works both in Europe and Serbia. Today, 37 employees of the Securities Commission work, a relatively small number for what is expected of the Commission, but quite a large number, given the size of the business that the Commission has. Certainly, the role of the President and the members of the Commission is significant and they can give their personal stamp in the functioning of the Commission, but the functioning of the securities market from the value and the capital market is in fact a precise and clear definition, defined and the laws of the Serbian state, defined and international agreements in which the Securities Commission is an integral part of Serbia's state-level component. You don't have that possibility of too much space. Everyone is right when they say that the Commission has achieved worse financial results in recent years, it is nothing controversial, because it sells less services. Who does she sell favors to? Services sell to investors, customers and when you look at what the listing service looks like, then MPs and citizens in Serbia should know that there are practically no new licenses to start companies in this area. The Securities Commission can't change anything here, a bad financial situation, a shallow market is the key to the problems facing the functioning of securities from value. You can't operate on the market when you don't have quality securities, and you can't expect to buy if you have a small percentage of investors who want to invest. We will find it difficult to agree on candidates for presidents and members of the Commission, from different political parties, it is nothing controversial. What is undeniable is that two members who were president and member of the Commission will also be in a new assembly. I think it is extremely important that the members of the Commission who have been proposed by the Committee on Budgets and the members of the Commission who have not passed this contest are practically looking at the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia today and understand the essence of the problems facing the securities market in Serbia. If you can from the MPs, and I fully understand that after 50 years of lack of financial market you have a break in understanding how it works, in the National Assembly you hear these views about the functioning of the securities market, just to tell you that what they have proposed, there is no such thing in the world. These are election ideas about the functioning of the paper market of values that do not exist anywhere in the world, which are a mixed combination of left ideas that are incompatible with the functioning of the free market. It can be tempting and it can be interesting, but it doesn't exist in the world. So if in the National Assembly you have this degree of lack of understanding of the problem of small shareholders, the nominal value of actions, the primary and secondary capital markets, then it is quite normal for investors who have not understood the functioning of that market. My personal message, it seems to me that I have the right to do this, to people who will be members of the Commission, is that the biggest problem in Serbia today is in the areas of capital and securities of value if we politicians and those who are dealing with this institution are sending false messages, and the false message is that there will be hopes on the financial market for securities of value in Serbia. Why? Any false hope actually implies an investment of a natural person or a company. When you get into a situation that within a year you have a loss, or an unpaid dividend, disappointment and loss of trust in the securities market is much greater than we in the National Assembly are going to try to explain to our demagogue ideas how it should work. I agree with the MPs of the opposition, specifically one MP who said trust is essential. It is trust, but at the same time perception of events, a personal perception of events in the securities market of value, i.e. the capital market. Why? Because anyone who participates and plays in the financial market has an idea to make money. He predicts, making a perception of future financial and business risks and trying to make a profit, looking at all this properly. It's a perception of events. I agree that trust is essential, because it should not allow any market participant to increase the risk, which is present, by breaking confidence. Of course, the Securities Commission has a hard job. These people, I suppose, who will be elected, are moving in a narrow circle of the undeveloped market, a shallow financial market that cannot handle expectations that are large and realistic is that in Serbia in general the last 100 years people have not invested in financial markets, because they invest in their businesses and invest in their properties. The people we have proposed today to be elected members, i.e. the President of the Securities Commission, meet all the legal and professional standards. Today, it is an honor to be in front of the Committee on Budgets, part of the team, because I hope that the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will support the draft Budget Committee in the voting day. That's what, to be realistic, what in the area of economics this Assembly has the best.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6529	Thank you. Bosko Obradovic is not here. The word is Maria Janjušević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6530	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Members of the people, the respected citizens of Serbia and all Serbs in the world, I believe that today we are wasting our time and the money of our citizens because there is once again another unintelligible debate. I really admire how much courage and visperity the proponent stands behind the name he proposes for the Securities Commission, and the reality is that there is actually no good offer. People who really know and know how to do this job don't trust the regime and don't want to take responsibility for this function and I really can't blame them. So those who know don't trust you and don't want to depend on you because this is certainly not an independent body, we all agreed. For the sake of the citizens, I'll do it again. During its existence, even today, the Securities Commission has failed to impose its educational function on policy and economic decision-makers, nor has it been able to influence their decisions to develop the capital market. The result – Serbia is the only country in the region in which no company has implemented the initial public offering process, and Serbia's dependence on foreign capital is very high. The control function of the Securities Commission of value was most often reduced to the elimination of one interested group in relation to the other, through different interpretations of the law or its selective application. The most frequently damaged stakeholders were small shareholders. So, all the regimes in continuity have extended one of the Pytheas tycoon privatisations, and no one cares about small shareholders without talking about ordinary citizens. I'll remind you, at a time when the strongest companies in Nis, Arangelovac and Apatina were privatized, there were casinos, auto shops and white techniques. No one's ever dealt with citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6531	You've wasted your time with the MPs' group. Thank you. The word has Serbian Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6532	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is today a discussion that shows why it is who and what place it is with the citizens of Serbia. The Budget Committee made decisions it made in August of the month, it proposed certain candidates, those candidates who came to this session met the conditions to be elected. I don't think it's a dispute with candidates who are proposed. It is not even questionable to be critical of candidates, it is not disputed to have a different opinion because, as we have said many times, it is good, healthy for democracy to have opposing opinions. But what is bad is that it does not benefit the Assembly, and especially does not benefit the citizens of Serbia, it is one kind of but of such a corny demagogy. To talk about how I don't want investors to come to Serbia, how privatisation is one or the other, then we have to remember how many people are out of work at the time of those who talk about privatisation and about investors. Hundreds of thousands of jobs, estimated between 400,000 and 500,000 jobs, were lost during those who care about workers, those who talk about privatisation. They have shut down so many companies, even the EU has asked to investigate 24 controversial privatisations, and there have been hundreds of controversial privatisations. So many bad things. Now they come to talk to us here about privatisation, those who went out with a party who directly participated in such privatisations. Where, then, will you give more demagogy and stupidity than that which they have held to themselves today, and give them the right to speak of privatisation? So you robbed everything that could in that privatisation. Don't just talk about how something should be privatized or not, especially what we heard, and that someone would want to ban a private property owner from selling his private property to a customer from abroad tomorrow. A bunch of nonsense. (Dusan Pavlovic, from Place: Theme. ) Let us return to the topic a little closer, seeing that some are very interested in the subject, and they know nothing more than to read the Rules of Procedure, and I guess there are two or three members who have managed to learn about these two or three months. They're doing it somehow, although they're going to need an interpreter for the Rules of Procedure. (Dusan Pavlovic, from Place: Theme. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6533	And they know they're getting it. So they gave you a theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6534	I'd like to comment on a remark made on the name of a candidate who is 34 years old. I'm talking about the future of young people, I'm talking about an educated world, about how educated people should stay in Serbia, how they should be given a chance, how they should give something for their country. When we have a man who's young, who's successful, who's perspective, who's got a future, who can leave a lot of things in his country and give, we say, he's a little old. In doing so, this young man has 15 years of employment. I don't think that at the age of 15 he's 34 he's not quite as young as he'd be able to get in the way of a job as part of the Securities Commission. What I must say is that from 2014 to 2016, the government led by Aleksandar Vukic opened 38 factories in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. You wouldn't even open three kiosks.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6535	Ambassador, please speak to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6536	It hit me, I had to.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6537	I believe you. I believe emotions are emotions, but speak to me, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6538	Also, the chairman, I apologize, I have to point out another painful fact for those who are across from me, which, of course, they are guilty of, and in the past 20 years in Serbia, more than 98 industrial centres have been shut down, which meant a loss of over a million jobs. A million people are out of work and unhappy. We can go further off this topic and talk about people who left Serbia, so why were they leaving, for whom. Because of these 98 shut down industrial centres, because of these and such privatisations, because one who is a candidate for a member of the Securities Committee at 34 can't be that because they should be some who are similar to the former regime. It's not like knowledge, it's like a party book. Now, this policy is being fought against by the SNS and the Government of Alexander Vukic, and we will insist on it. They can spit on us, earn us, threaten us, do whatever they want, this government will hire people, open factories, as it is opened today in Turkey, will continue to open them throughout Serbia, and China. The opening of the Chinese bank was announced in January. Serbia is taking major steps forward, is not in charge of green interest, no more robbery, no more kidnapping, no more bankruptcy procedures, no experts with an electric college to deal with bankruptcy. He who finishes the economy deals with the economy, the right one, the right one. Everyone finds their place. Political scum at the junkyard of political history, and people who want to work - at jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6539	Here you go. The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6540	Thank you, Madam President, I am advocating Rules of Procedure Articles 106 and 107. The speaker is obliged to speak only of the agenda point and of course of violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. The previous speaker, two-thirds of his presentation, was off topic, only for a short time I found somewhere in the middle in the topic, and then he turned away and talked about something completely different again. And, more and more frequently, SNS hear objections to the DSS and the time when it led the government of the Republic of Serbia. Gentlemen Members of the SNS, you wouldn't be sitting here today if the DSS hadn't supported you in the presidential campaign in the second round of your president, so you should thank us for sitting here today in so many numbers. Maybe we regretted what we did.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6541	MPs, I believe, believe it all. Was that a replica or a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Be kind, MPs. It was a replica after all, wasn't it? Half of them were Rules of Procedure, half of them were replicas. I've got to figure it out. Let's talk about it, you said he was talking about this other guy more, and I'm saying he was talking about this first one. He was inspired by the discussion of one of the speakers, I know who, and I won't say, since he didn't say either. And, since that speaker talked about privatisation all the time and that's the role of members, I apologize, it doesn't matter. Great. Funny? So laugh all you want. Well, if you had to sit here for hours and listen to everything and I'd die laughing. That's right. No, you don't. Maura, this is my job. And I get paid in the Assembly, this is my job, and I have to sit down. And, almost, whatever I'm doing, I'm doing the same way. Okay. So, I don't know, that MP called to replicate, and they said he wasn't talking about the subject. Well, how did he identify himself then? Here he is, I won't give him a replica. I don't know if it's you, there's more, if someone recognized him if he was speaking out of the question, and if there was no discussion about it today. It's not all that black - white. You? Okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6542	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I'm advertising Article 107 and my colleague has advertised Article 106. Indeed, the dignity of the National Assembly doesn't know what the speaker before me was provoked to talk about political scum that should end up in the garbage of history. I'd like to ask my colleague when we're talking...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6543	You can't ask him, ask me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6544	I mean, here's an explanation that you didn't take the ones he's talking to completely, so it's clear any side he's looking at, I don't feel like political scum. I don't just know how many parties you've changed? President: So that's not what we're gonna do. You're all using because you've wasted your time getting into replicas. You want to say something else? And we're adults, so don't really You have no right, he didn't mention you. [[Srjan Nogo, from the place: Do I have the right to replica?]] Now you think you're a political scum. You're not political scum, you're all elected by the citizens of Serbia, and no one's ever been to the O.R. and the end. That's my attitude. So there's no political scum here are representatives of Serbian citizens. Dot. Don't, don't abuse the Rules of Procedure, save your minutes for the end, and I'll have to take two minutes away from you because you're not answering the Rules of Procedure. It's all clear. Radmilo Kostic, the last speaker on the list. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6545	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, on the proposal of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds for the President and members of the Committee of the Securities Committee, I would not particularly say, since I supported the proposal on the Committee. Col. Tomic presented all the candidates and their biographies in the opening presentation today. I would refer to the importance of the capital and securities market, as counterpart Kovacevic also spoke of the lack of development of this segment. What exactly is this supposed to be? In a narrow sense, securities are investment instruments, i.e. those securities of values where there is a risk of investment and which is compensated for a potential profit. In this group of charters there are shares, bonds, options, derivatives, etc. They are sold and bought on a specialized market, a financial market i.e. The capital market also represents the most significant group of financial instruments traded on financial markets. Papers of value in modern transport can play various roles and appear as means of payment of credit, security of claims, goods traffic and the like. A basic body in charge of regulating and implementing trade in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Serbia. The Commission is responsible for the legal functioning of the securities market with a view to protecting investors and ensuring the fairness, efficiency and transparency of that market. The financial markets represent the most significant factor in the overall economic and economic system in countries with developed market economy. The financial markets are the site of accumulation with the aim of making it most efficient to use it in production. The financial markets contribute to economic development as they lead to increased mobility of financial resources. The Serbian financial market is banking. Credit is still the main financial product. In view of the above, one of the key tasks of the Commission is to strengthen and develop the securities market with a view to strengthening the economic development of the Republic of Serbia. What I would once again point out in the voting day, me and the SNS MPs will support the proposal of the Finance Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6546	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6547	Dear President, honourable colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, we are at the end of the debate, and I think that most MPs have spoken precisely about key topics and key criteria for the election and president of the Committee on Charters of Values and future members of the Securities Commission. A large number of MPs have made legitimate remarks on the fulfilment of the conditions and the Capital Market Act adopted in 2011 which provides for the election of the President of the Securities Commission and the members of the Securities Commission on the condition that they have, above all, five years of working experience in working with securities of value. Of course, there are other conditions, high professional preparation, citizenship, but I think it is a key responsibility for both the Budget and Finance Committee that proposed these people, but also their personal responsibility for signing statements to meet these conditions. This also speaks of their moral responsibility and willingness to sign one such statement and present to both the Committee and the Republic Assembly and the entire public of Serbia. We have concluded that work in the Committee on Papers is of paramount importance, above all, when it comes to the economic status of Serbia, its stability and of course the economic status of each individual citizen in Serbia. I think from that point of view, we should also think about the possible support of the candidates proposed this way. I also initially said that the DS parliamentary group would vote against, particularly the proposed president for the Securities Committee, and that I personally supported two candidates who are not the DS proposal. I'll say it again, because we heard from the opening statement that the DS had one proposal, that the candidate withdrew his proposal, and it's true, again, clearly, knowing that it's hard to expect one such candidate to pass, and especially with the sign DS, or "yellow," as some very often mention DS in an inappropriate way. However, we do not have that kind of resistance for the candidates who meet these conditions, and once again I said, I voted for two candidates both then and then on the Committee, and there are the people present who attended this Committee, I said that it is possible to support one of them and as president of the Securities Commission, because there is obviously experience in working on both sides of the market, and in the brokerage house, that he worked both in the Commission and that this experience can be applied in a much more complex and significant way. So the first keyword - legality. I think we have a duty as a legislative body to respect the legality and strict conditions that we have adopted right here in this House. If we ourselves do not respect our decisions, how will we expect the elected representatives in independent regulatory institutions to protect the market, protect the participants in the capital market in such a way? So how are we going to secure this fair match and how will we later bear responsibility for the capital market situation in Serbia? Unfortunately, unless we do, and I call on most of them here to give up this proposal, and come up with a proposal for candidates on this list, but they're not proposed for the president's post, to get out of this and this kind of problem. I don't believe it's a possible outcome, really, but I think we're going to take very high responsibility for what's going to happen in the capital market in the future. I say once again, and we heard it from an authorised representative, which is that in this debate there were offensive tones -- what you were doing in your period of 2000, since 2005, but we heard data -- about a billion and 700 million euros in traffic, in 2008 about two billion euros in 2015, 180m euros in capital market traffic in Serbia. I guess these are clear enough data on the dramatic state, about the serious situation in the capital market in the Republic of Serbia. I don't want to accuse anyone now, but I think it's important and it would be healing for all of us, including the public of Serbia, to clarify some things, and the most frequently mentioned privatisation processes, and here we heard them both in this debate on both sides. Luka Belgrade, you know when the privatisation of Luke Belgrade began, in 1998, under the Social Capital Transformation Act. Who was the minister of privatisation then? Jorgenka Tabakovic, right? So in 1998, the transformation of Luke Belgrade's capital, 59% of small shareholders' shares, 10% of the PIO Fund, the rest of the action fund, and that's the beginning of the privatisation process in Lucy Belgrade, which is mostly referred to as robbery privatisation by pointing to the DS. So, in 1998, the DS didn't participate in that government, and we told ourselves who was involved here. There are former ministers here from that government, and that's the process that was done at that time. In 2005, the continuation of this story and the most frequently charged, again the government led by Vojislav Kostunica, DSS, G-17, with the minority support of the SAA, when it was found that small shareholders' actions were bought out, means that 59% of the actions and the subject of this research and the charges and the whole procedure were just directed at these two periods. Repeatedly, the DS is mostly accused of the privatisation, which began in 1998, and that the purchase of small shareholders was made in 2005. No DS was anywhere near the government. "C-Market", also in 2005, and that is the period during which 24 privatisations were most frequently mentioned, and from the European Commission's report, controversial privatisations mentioned here, but always linked to the DS period. So, I mentioned this precisely because, at this point, we are carrying our responsibility first and foremost in this future decision whether we will vote for the President of the Commission without enough experience, without obviously prior knowledge and strength to build a strong institution that will resist possible pressures, but also all the challenges that we all together have in the future capital market and the current state of Serbia's economy. I say again, we've seen the report. Unfortunately, we have not had the opportunity to hear the presentation of this progress report in Chapter 9, as regards finance, both the banking and the insurance markets and the securities markets of value, to realize that it is precisely the Commission for Papers that is of insufficient capacity and institutional value, that it is necessary to strengthen these capacities and that it is done and that I will mention it, but obviously it is not sufficient capacity, and in particular it will not be enough if we choose a man who has almost no experience in working with securities of value, and in particular does not meet legal requirements in this regard. One of my colleagues mentioned trust. Trust is also needed here in this assembly hall when we accept the arguments of one, the other, the third parliamentary groups, the individuals, the MPs. I think we need to learn to listen to each other and maybe bring down the octave of our tone, because in silence, the arguments seem better understood and I think we could make a much smarter decision than we're making right now. For the promotion of the capital market, consideration should be given to every citizen of Serbia, because they are potential participants in that capital market, I say once again, potential investors and as natural persons and as legal or as state and potential entrepreneurs who have a good idea for their business and who would like to raise capital right on that capital market. And not only do you think too much about the credits of business banks, but also by drawing potential investors with a good idea and in a cheap and right way to contribute to this project.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6548	You're bringing the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6549	So trust is the key thing. But what is necessary, in addition to respecting the legality, in addition to trust, what is necessary, there is no real development of the capital market without... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6550	Thank you. Mr. Kiriq, I've given you more. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6551	In today's debate, we heard there is no capital market in Serbia. I think we all agreed on that. We also agreed that in the privatisation process, which has hit us in the last two decades, there have been a lot of irregularities, which has left it so much desolation worse than sanctions and war and bombings by the effects it has had on the population and on the state. We've heard that this process began in the 1990s and developed in all governments of the post-five-octobarian, and that the effects and consequences we suffer today. During that period, the Securities Commission did not exercise its role. The Securities Committee is as often an accomplice as possible, because without its complicity, such things could not happen. The Securities Commission has never protected minority shareholders, small shareholders. She was gone when the tycoons traded amongst themselves through their offshore companies, in fact through their private companies in offshore areas and thus knocked down stock prices, and then because of the high concentration of actions over 90% forced to buy, in fact, forcedly buy out small shareholders' actions. All of this was before the Commission's eyes on securities of value. She hasn't responded in the whole period. It is true that some of the privatisations, mentioned earlier by my predecessor, are started by an older model when there was a large number of actions broadcast on a large number of shareholders. It's a "C market" and Luka Belgrade. And we are just criticizing what is allowed to privatise these companies, and to the detriment of minority shareholders. Well, do you know, say, that now 4,000 shareholders of the "C Market" and today are struggling to exercise their rights. So, 4,000 people, who were damaged in 2005, but were damaged, and to this day they cannot exercise their rights because the state was on Mr Miroslav Miskovic's side. Then in 2005, and until today, they can't discuss it. That's one big problem and we have to admit it and face that fact. So we have to face that fact, because we can't say that in the past 20 years, in the past 16 years, nothing has happened to us in the past 26 years. The ruling majority MPs themselves correctly found that hundreds of companies, hundreds of industrial plants, 98 industrial centres, were closed, as one of my previous speakers said, and that's true. Hundreds of thousands of people are out of work, and that's true, but where's the responsibility, where's the responsibility? You yourself, here, Mr. Arsic had one argument and a debate, so I realized that in the previous meeting, the Securities Committee was doing a bad job. Then you give us the solution that the new, first man of the Securities Commission is neither guilty nor debtor, absolutely strayed into securities of value. Never has a team man dealt with, he's not competent for that question, and he's not the only one you've proposed here, who doesn't deserve to be a member of this Commission, and that's one big problem, and it absolutely doesn't give hope or trust that this Commission will work a little bit better in the future. I also pointed out to you the Aik Bank problem from this year when the Commission did not respond, and the government's law and decision was violated in 2015, Aik Bank - EPS. No reaction. That's a big problem. I would refer to another legal question that one previous speaker mentioned, which is bankruptcy. Unfortunately, there are still bankruptcys in Serbia and bankruptcy is normal practice right and exists and will exist safely for centuries. Do you know what the problem is here? The problem is that Serbia is in bankruptcy. Serbia is in bankruptcy. You have found the situation, I agree, Serbia is in bankruptcy, but you are maintaining that bankruptcy and Aleksandar Vukic is acting as a bankruptcy manager. I think he's the biggest bankruptcy manager and I'm just afraid that we're gonna get out of bankruptcy, whether we're gonna go into liquidation or... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6552	Thank you, Mr. Nogo. (Srjan Nogo, from the scene: incredible.) What's amazing? (Srjan Nogo, from the scene: In the middle of the sentence you turned off my microphone.) No, I'm not afraid at all, it's just work. I wasn't afraid even when I was an opposition. The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6553	I'm reporting for breach of article 107, Mr. Arsic. I think the violation of the National Assembly's dignity when you say that Serbia, which must be a common homeland of all of us, is in bankruptcy. Serbia is not in bankruptcy. Serbia is going in the right direction, and the evidence for this is what the authorised representative of the SNS told you, what my esteemed Serbian counterpart Filipovic was saying. That Serbia is going in the right direction tells you today's event in gurri, where a new factory is opened. It's a Chinese investment. As you can see, new factories are opened in Serbia every day and we don't mind whether investors are from the West or the East. It is important that they come to Serbia, see the perspective in Serbia and, most importantly, create new jobs in Serbia. As for the name of Alexander Vukic, you mention him more than we are members of the SNS. I think if there was a statistical... Srjan Nogo throws. Don't shout, Mr. Nogo. I may not see well, but I still hear well. You mention him more times than we are members of the SNS. I would ask, if possible, Mr. Arsic, to make us some statistics, how many times have the MPs sitting across from us mentioned the name of Alexander Vukic. You will see that these statistics will show that his name has been mentioned at least three times as much as we who are SNS. I understand why they do it. They don't have any other policy...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6554	Bring the end, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6555	... than every day 100 times they say that Alexander Wolf is the worst man in the world. Just one more sentence. Did you hear one of them say that Alexander Vukitch stole something, that some company had shut down, that he had made some kind of machination. No, Aleksandar Vukic is the enemy because he does not allow Serbia to be managed as it was managed until 2012.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6556	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. The word has been made by the MP Srdjan Nogo, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6557	I suggest that the previous speaker has injured the Rules of Procedure, Article 103, paragraph 8, and used under the form of reporting for a breach of the Rules of Procedure the right to replicate, which is certainly inadmissible. I think you were obliged to warn him, to turn off his microphone, because that's the practice you apply when the MPs of the opposition appear, so I think we should all have the same archaic. I think it makes sense, Mr. Martinovic, that I comment on the government's policy of the Republic of Serbia and the Prime Minister, because he is responsible for the policy he is implementing. I couldn't attack you when you weren't Prime Minister. I have to comment on the government's moves. Alexander Vukic is the Prime Minister. When you're the Prime Minister, I sincerely want you to succeed Alexander Vukic in that place as soon as possible, I will absolutely talk about you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6558	Mr. Nogo, I don't think the Rules of Procedure have been broken. If someone broke the Rules of Procedure, I violated him for letting you talk about the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and by Article 107. The Rules of Procedure are about candidates for members of the Committee on Charters of Values proposed by the Committee on Finance and elected by the National Assembly, and you are all involved in this by the Government, which is an executive part of the government and thus undermined the dignity of the National Assembly. Srjan Nogo throws. It seems to me, Mr. Nogo, that you often dream of Alexander Wolf. The word is made by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6559	Article 27, Mr. Arsic. I understand that the mission of an MP is... (DJB emissaries, from the post: Which member? ) Article 27 for those who would tear up the throat of Marijana Risticevic, but that Marko Atlagic is watching. They released it yesterday. It's the height of democracy in Serbia. (Vladimir Djuric, from the post: Who posted it? You know very well who said that. I can see you're very brave, but only at a distance. You need to shout a little louder.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6560	Mr. Martinovic, please, without a personal address.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6561	So, Mr. Arsic, those who earn yesterday wrote that Marijana Risticevic should be ripped out of her throat, but that Marko Atlagic is watching, and Marko Atlagic does not like because he always quotes the exposés of Prime Minister Vukic. What I was about to say, I understand the task of those who advise Jasmina Vujic to attack Alexander Vukic, and that is politically legitimate, but allow it to be politically legitimate... (Tatjana Macura, from the city: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. This isn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. ) You see how loud those who advocate democracy and human rights are can't get a word out of them. So I understand that their task is to attack Alexander Vukic, and that is politically legitimate, but our task is to defend a policy that brings good to the citizens of Serbia. It is good that we have political stability in Serbia. It is good to co-operate with the EU, with the Russian Federation and China. What's wrong with the Chinese investor coming to Turkey? Which investor did you bring...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6562	Bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6563	... from any side of the world? (Branka Stamenkovic, from place: Time. ) So, I'd like them to tell me what time they're getting, what do they want to rip up the Greeks, which is why if I didn't know what they're doing, besides robbing all possible businesses in Serbia, as bankruptcy managers, who did those investors bring to Serbia? Who in Serbia did they give bread to? Who did they hire?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6564	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. (Srdian Nogo, from the post: Rules of Procedure. Now you too by the Rules of Procedure? You want us to set a break at the end of the debate? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6565	Article 106, so as not to be how the opposition only fights for its own rights, I will point out that, while the previous speaker spoke, the entire hall and the authorities and the opposition threw and distracted Mr. Martinovic to point to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, even if it was the abuse of the Rules of Procedure. I wanted to say that we from the opposition are correct and we are aware that passions may have risen a little, but I'd like to look back on two things. First, when we mentioned tweeting and Mr. Marijan Rističević, I would like all MPs to join in condemning and treating Mr. Rističevic and his tweeting, I would like to commend Parliament President and Maria Obradovic... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6566	The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6567	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today we are choosing to discuss the selection of members for the Securities Committee. We have five proposals on the agenda. All five are proposals from the ruling party, there were other proposals. But on the Finance Committee, where we discussed the proposals, most chose to be these five candidates. Before I go to the candidates myself, I'd like to say first a few words about how important the Securities Commission is. So it's an independent institution that needs to take care of the securities market, take care of the stock market, protect the legality of the market and make sure that there are equal conditions on that market for all, that there are no frauds, that citizens cannot be seduced with the wrong financial data. The Commission which has the right of supervision, which has the right to react and to verify whether those applications are correct or not, according to all reports of small shareholders. In recent years, I don't know how many years, I think citizens are witnessing that the Securities Committee hasn't done its job. For various reasons, many associate it with corruption, but the fact is that it is. A number of robbery privatisations that always ended up on the stock market, so after some auction or tender, according to the Privatisation Act, all those actions ended up on the stock market with a large number of small shareholders. Serbian citizens know this very well, who then had no protection where practically as in the wild west there was a seizure of property, a kidnapping of rights and no institution, I am talking about small shareholders to protect their rights. It doesn't matter if this government, the previous government, that government before it, simply the system didn't work. What tells us about how the system doesn't work is that when you don't have a regulated system when you don't have the same rules for everything, then people run from that market and the market goes down and disappears slowly. An example is, say, our stock market. In 2007, there were two billion euros on the market itself – annual traffic. It's a small stock market compared to the world stock exchanges, but the traffic was two billion euros. In 2015, traffic was 185m euros. So it's only 10% of what it was. The problem is that when you have a situation where robbery and fraud of small shareholders are possible, where financial reports aren't clean, they're not clear, then people are running from that stock market and practically there's very, very little going on, except some forced takeover. A lot of small shareholders know that. Where was the essence of these frauds mostly? It's an estimate of the value of the stock. So when we talked about Lucy Belgrade, which many speakers have spoken about today, the C market and many other privatisations, the main issue is either – what is the value of individual actions when taking over, so some value estimates are being done. Financial reports should contain accurate information on how valuable the company is. It was even a provision in the current Charter of Values Act, which said that when the stock was taken over, the value of the stock could not be less than the accounting value, and then the books were frisked, so that the book value would not appear much less than it did. This is very well known by the shareholders of Luke Belgrade or C market shareholders, where the valuation of the value of the assets of these companies existed. It was much higher than book value, but the management avoided knowing this estimated value in books and thus created a polygon to come up with fraud, i.e. to buy shares at a much lower price. This was mainly followed by market competition in the process, so that if there are two or three offers, that all other offers are rejected and that there is only one left for a known buyer, to buy stocks of very valuable companies far below their market value. The problem, let's say, at the C market, is that the value is estimated much less than it really is. It is interesting that after 2005, when these actions were bought, no financial reports were ever made for that year in 2005, but were only done later in 2006 when the value was, in fact, recognised and increased to over 100m euros, so that shareholders, roughly, were damaged by two and a half to three times what they really needed to receive by law and by what the Securities Commission had to provide. This is why it's very important who sits in this very important institution. That stock market should be where capital is raised. A place where someone who invests in actions can be sure that when he invests in these actions, he will not be deceived and that if the company is doing a good job in the market, in the country or abroad, he too will gain some value as a shareholder. Unfortunately, in Serbia, that is not the case. There's currently 575 shares on the stock market. Of which only four actions are on the so-called so-called. ‘recital document’, i.e. those should be the most qualitative actions of value and four actions are on the standard document. This is a total of eight shares received on the stock exchange, meaning eight companies on the stock market, according to the conditions prescribed by the stock exchange. All other companies have come to the stock market with some other channels or via the Privatisation Act or through some other laws, and they do not satisfy the elemental conditions to operate on the stock market. Elemental conditions are for the company to be liquid, to have an accurate list of assets, to have an accurate estimate of the value of the assets, to have clean financial reports. Unfortunately, a large number of companies in Serbia do not satisfy it, a large part of the robbery privatisation is actually based on the fact that we have never had clean financial reports. This goes all the way back to the '90s, I haven't been talking just since October 5th, here. It's the central problem of our privatisation. If these accounts were clean, it would be very difficult and this often flossula that has been placed on Serbian citizens, if it had been stolen by law, is not true. So it wasn't stolen under the law, it was because the institutions that had to take care of the law didn't do it, so it all went away. Then it comes to you like the wild west. So, of the eight shares on the stock market we have on the so-called. "open market" 35 more that do not satisfy the conditions to be on the market, but are listed in that part and so on. The trading platform has 710 other actions, which virtually do not meet any conditions. Of these 710, only 256 have a prospectus that is updated and sits on the stock market site. Where's the problem with these prospectuses and financial reports? For the company to be able to invest in it, prospectuses and financial reports are a key and quarterly annual report, because you see the company's business as a whole. If these reports aren't clean, then you don't know what actions you're buying. It would be like buying food in a grocery store or in a supermarket that you don't know what the ingredients are, or what that food is made of. It's not allowed for food, so it wouldn't even be allowed for securities of value. The only way that some investor, shareholder, small shareholder knows what's going on with the company is a financial report and a prospectus that lists the assets, which discusses the whole business. In order for that prospectus to exist, it is the Commission for Securities of Values, the very stock exchanges that would have to exclude companies that do not have accurate prospectuses and do not have an exact, let's say, list of assets. It's very similar to what we tried to do with the entire public sector when I was a minister, it's ID cards. So, basic company data. Since this situation exists, it is the basis for stealing. What we had in the past, members of the Securities Commission did not interfere in their business, or they did not deal with checking these companies, representing the interests of shareholders to take care of legality, to make sure that these prospectuses existed and that they correspond to the real state of each of these companies. As a result, the robbery took place not only in companies such as "Luka Belgrade", such as "C Market", but also in many other companies, because most workers and small shareholders know that after privatisation they became small shareholders, and then they were bought out of this stock at prices that do not correspond in any way to the real value of the property. Much of it concerns real land use. Let's say "Luka Belgrade" is an ideal example, a large part of the robbery privatisation just happened because of the land that was estimated to be zero dinars in the books, and then after privatisation it was converted into the most valuable building land and over some of the short companies exported from the country. Here on the board we had suggestions for these five candidates to ask questions. It happened more than a month ago, I talked to each of them, asked them direct questions they answered, so we could assess whether they had the necessary knowledge, experience and what the law requires, so they could be members of the Securities Commission at all. So let's take it in a row. The first candidate, Zarko Milicevic, was president of the Securities Commission. When he became President of the Securities Commission, he did not meet the legal requirements to become President of the Securities Commission. So, since 2011, he has worked in the Commission's office of President of the Commission's Securities Commission, and then worked in the supervisory sector to become president in 2015. If it entered in 2011, it was not four years before 2015, and it is also questionable whether people who previously worked on the Commission could be placed in the Commission. I think that practice should not be so, but that we have professional people working in the Commission and those members elected by the National Assembly, who should be people with great integrity, with great knowledge in the area, with great experience, who will then be able to make key decisions, and these professional services in fact to prepare what they are doing. The biographies were usually incomplete. We had to say at these committee sessions to ask the candidates -- what average they had. Let's say Mr. Milicevic had an average of 7.62. He studied for 10 years, from 1995 to 2006, etc. So these are data from their biographies, which we then added to get a full picture. He's usually a graduate lawyer. After that, the next candidate is Vladislav Stankovic, who also worked in the Securities Committee, which also does not meet the conditions for appointment in the commission. Practically, he's a lawyer who, if you read the biography, writes - 18 years of work experience gained in the Commission, in the judiciary, in the district court, in the trade court, when we questioned him on the Committee itself, then it turns out he's not exactly 18 years old but much less. There was a big career break, and then somehow there was a value paper commission. Then, the third member, before I go further, Ivosevic Mirjana, who has been spoken of several times today, was in 1959 and from education said that she had graduated from the High Belgrade Business School, from 1995 to 1999, after that, that she had completed the Faculty of Banking, Insurance and Finance - the Belgrade Banking Academy, said in 2005 and 2006, although in the biography itself she did not write that, and then became "professor of the Mester" as it says here at the School of Professional Studies in Belgrade in 2011/2012. A year. When we look at her work experience, she also worked in the Securities Committee at some other places, but there is no need for five years. She was elected to the Securities Committee without satisfying the basic conditions to be a member of the commission at all. Otherwise, from small shareholders, from their representatives, from stockholders, he received information about the problems related to the conduct of these three members of the Securities Commission as well as the entire previous Committee on Securities Committee. I won't enter them because we're not a court or a commission, this is the National Assembly. However, this is something that was not taken into account when these candidates even entered the National Assembly and when the discussion began. The main problems are that they do not respect the public of work, that they do not submit reports, that they go contrary to these solutions by the Commissioner for Public Information, that there are criminal reports that have been filed. We have received information from the staff of the Commission themselves who say that there is complete chaos, that there is nepotism, that it simply does not work, that there are people in that commission who are really professional, who are really trying to make this commission an independent body. However, it is not possible from political personnel being placed on the commission itself. Then, we have the president of the commission, the candidate sorry, for the president, thank you, Mr Krasic, Professor Dr Dedejic, who is clearly in his biography that he does not have the necessary experience. He's a professor, he's in business law, he's in law school, he's in law school, he's in law school, he's in law school, it's all right. But the value paper market has absolutely nothing to do with it. All these candidates I've counted have no experience with securities of value. Then we have a fifth candidate, the only one who really has experience with values charters, Milan Jankovic. A colleague Krasic read some parts of his biography. But besides that, he really worked on the stock market, really worked in investment funds, really worked in brokerage companies, so he knows the problem and has direct experience with what's going on there. We supported that candidate. But later we found out, this is now a question for the chairman of the Finance Committee, that his father seems to be on the Board of the Deposit Insurance Agency, so I want to ask – is that correct? We're getting into this really weird net of nepotism that we couldn't possibly support. Regardless of the candidate's expertise, these two things are very connected. The deposit insurance agency, I'll remind the citizens, has a large number of shares in its portfolio, has a large number of assets. It's about banks that are bankrupt, which are also stock companies, and here we have a significant conflict of interest. This is something we didn't know about when it was being discussed. Where is the problem with this Securities Commission? We talked on the board, and we asked one important question, and this is to make the citizens realize how important his role is. Telecom Serbia is a company where free shares are divided. Almost all Serbian citizens have these free shares, and it's a company that's supposed to be on the market. The exit of the stock market prevents the first management of Telecom because it does not work, or it does not tolerate the prospectus and does not go out on the market, and the one who should make them do so is the Securities Commission. None of the candidates wanted to make a statement as to whether "Telecom Serbia" under the Capital Market Act would have to go out on the market, and the answer is that she didn't want to say anything about it, says she probably doesn't do it independently, or do it on someone's dictatorship. Because not getting into the discussion at all is something I can't understand. This must be an independent institution of a system that does not answer anyone except the National Assembly and needs all the questions that are within its jurisdiction to discuss themselves. Because Telecom management no longer wants to submit a prospectus and go on the market, and because the Securities Commission has not been doing its job for five years and does not force Telecom to take this step, Serbian citizens cannot come to their actions, but we listen to the government think about how they will sell majority packages if they get a sufficient price, etc. In our opinion, it's disastrously wrong. "Telecom Serbia" should be performed on the stock market, as the successful countries in the world do, as Germany, Norway and not only the Belgrade Stock Exchange do, but should be on one of the important European stock exchanges, such as the London Stock Exchange or the Polish Stock Exchange, and secondary to Belgrade so that citizens of Serbia, domestic investment funds, domestic investment public, can invest in this profitable company that would do great business if it had no party parasite burden on its back. So, if this burden by, if it really worked professionally, it would be an exceptional company with a serious chance of growth not only in Serbia but throughout the region. I'm afraid that doesn't happen. This tells you how important these independent institutions of the system are, how important it is for the Charter Commission to ensure the legality of labour on the market. So, I repeat, these candidates had nothing to say about these central issues why our capital market isn't working, about the central issues of how the robbery happened, how robbed small shareholders were and, on the other hand, it doesn't suit small shareholders who are trying to protect their rights by addressing the Agency, so they address the prosecution, they address all institutions, and they're all deaf to what they're saying. This isn't such a hard thing, actions have been traded for over a hundred years in the world. Warm water is famous, it's known how it's applied. It takes political will to do this in Serbia and to protect the rights of small shareholders, whether it is Telekom Srbija, whether it is all those other companies that ended up on the stock market through privatisation, and then practically disappeared with the property being robbed. Because of all this, because of the way the candidates were elected, the move enough was going to not vote for these candidates. We expect only an answer to the question for Milan Jankovic – is it true that his father is in the Management Board of the Deposit Insurance Agency? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6568	The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6569	A violation of dignity, Mr. Arsic, the National Assembly and Article 107. When Saša Radulovic, who is with him and his wife, as a bankruptcy manager, concluded a contract on the provision of bookkeeping services when he was a bankruptcy manager in the social enterprise, the first Serbian sugar factory "Dimitrija Tucović" 18989 Belgrade, when he was a bankruptcy manager in the social company "Moda" Kovacica shoe factory, when he was a bankruptcy manager at "DPP Lune Milovanovic" Bavanište, when he was a bankruptcy manager at the social company "Moda" Debeljača shoe factory. It's a man who teaches us how nepotism should not be and how the institution should function. Here's another piece of evidence why Sasa Radulovic doesn't need to lecture us on nepotism. Namely, when Sasa Radulovic was Minister of Economy in 2013, those few months, until he escaped from the ministry, his adviser was the current MP, I don't see well from here whether he was here, Aleksandar Stevanovic. This Aleksandar Stevanovic has a wife who has a company called Pro Net, and was also on the Supervisory Board in 2013 of the Belgrade beer industry BIP. Here, I'm finishing up, Mr. Arsic. Then Belgrade beer industry BIP concluded a contract with the company Pronet, owned by Sandra Savanovic Stevanovic. Please, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6570	Is that something funny? You think it's funny? You're counting down here like it's New Year's Eve. That's funny to you? I see, there are some professors here. What do they teach students? You're making a circus here. Don't you want to play stakes, too? (Goran Ciric, throws out of place.) ) Mr. Kiric, I also know well that bankruptcy managers have public authority. You agree with me? Here you are, Mr. Radulovich, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6571	Article 103 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure, because in the context of the infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Martinovic actually replicated. Since he did it like that, then I'm disabled from replicating what he was saying, because the breach of the Rules of Procedure doesn't allow replication. You are constantly violating this member because of this, so that Mr. Martinovic may be uninterrupted, speaking falsely, and that practically...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6572	It's okay, Mr. Radulovich, we're done. I'm subtracting two minutes from the time of the SNS parliamentary group. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6573	Article 27, Mr. Arsic. I was distracted when I discussed it because the performance of Saša Radulovic was under way. So, let me finish. The lessons about nepotism are given to us by Sasa Radulović whose advisor was Aleksandar Stevanović, a member of the BIP Supervisory Board, and then at a time when the husband is a member of the BIP Supervisory Board, then the BIP concludes a contract to provide consulting services with Pro Net, whose owner is Sandra Savanović Stevanović, and on two occasions they receive, Mr Arsic, 690 thousand dinars, here are your contracts, here are your invoices, here are your analytical cards. BIP received only 1,380,000 dinars in 2014. Here, this is a textbook example of how it was ruined, how Serbian economy was destroyed, and how such destruction would continue to continue if by some case, God forbid, Sasa Radulovic remained a minister of business.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6574	One minute and 15 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is by MP Sasa Radulovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6575	Article 103 again. You just said you understood that and you let Mr. Martinovic do the same thing again. You can't use that for a replica, especially then I can't answer, because this is a bunch of false, twisting things that just aren't true and you shouldn't let that happen. So, you can't actually do replicas under the Rules of Procedure, because that makes it impossible for the other side to agree. These are your basic rules, you must know them, obviously you're breaking them on purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6576	A five-minute break.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6577	Shall we continue? Not because of us, because of these people who work here, so we don't harass them with a break. I think there's still Marian Risticevic left. Do you want to use your time? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6578	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the most important thing to me these days is that I'm alive. As far as the Securities Commission is concerned, I will support the election of the president and the members of the Commission, for the simple reason that I believe there will be no mistakes made by the previous commissions. By listing the previous compositions of the Securities Commission, I noticed that, for example, Mr. Bajec has been since 2001, I think five times, Mr. Milko Stimac, for whom various affairs are connected, has been three times. The biggest, in my opinion, affair occurred, which was public, the biggest public affair occurred at the time he was president, it was "Knjiz Milos", when there were many violations in this privatisation. The whole of Serbia is paved by cheated minority shareholders. There's no town you can go to without being told the story of how the shareholders were cheated. But, not only am I wrong my soul, it's not just about the boards of charters guilty of some privatisations, it's also about the deceitful behaviour of the state that used to sell its packages to the verified tycoons, so those on the market didn't have to buy the shares of all shareholders, or they could buy a small package, and then the state added what they lacked to 51%. In such a way, an army of minority shareholders was deceived because the owner who obtained the majority package usually had a copy of the financial books, so that no dividends were held by minority shareholders. I'm going to set an example of "Centrosrema" in Stari Paz, which had hundreds of locals and was sold for 200,000 euros, where minority shareholders, as our people said, were up, and the company was sold for 200,000 euros, how much rent is now for a new proud owner who became the Minister of Economy, Predrag Bubalo, and where the price and package of shares were determined in very suspicious ways, so something worth two million euros this year, in the coming year, that price fell to 200,000 euros, it was some kind of burazer privatisation. I believe this commission will deal with the stock market, deal in the right way with securities of value, not make mistakes made by previous commissions. I am obliged to say, in connection with Mr. Martinovic's performance, that the main fraud work was done not only by the Securities Committee, but by the so-called bankruptcy mafia, which put the price of the action unconscious. Mr. Martinovic mentioned, I don't speak to him personally, e-business, e-service, there is an e-market, an e-capital. I have to explain to MPs and citizens who are less understanding in the economy, I consulted with experts because certain bankruptcy managers, instead of working as entrepreneurs, worked through companies that are limited-responsibility companies. This with "limited liability" means that this society does not correspond to its assets. According to bankruptcy laws, bankruptcy managers had to work as entrepreneurs, and in such situations they correspond to personal property for the assets of enterprises in which bankruptcy managers are involved if they damage the bankruptcy mass. Our favorite bankruptcy manager did not respect it, but by registering these companies at the non-existent address Student Square number 15, there is the headquarters of a political party that certainly knows that these companies were not there, masking themselves in limited liability companies, which was illegal, business and managed by 14-15 companies that are already listed, I will list "Delta legal", "Venera kop", Vršačka pivara, Company "Brothers Karic", Belgrade Trade Centre, a new highway, where there are solutions for the use of certain bankruptcy managers. I'm talking about my favorite bankruptcy manager from the village of Stetchaevci. This has caused various protests by deceived shareholders, so, for example, they've come to protest and say, "The blood drinks, the vampire doesn't, he's a bankruptcy manager." So there's nothing else left for the cheated people to watch bankruptcy managers boast over the property of minority shareholders, how the pubs are and how they become millionaires, while millions are left with nothing. While millions were running out of nothing, these other millionaires got everything. For example, only in the period from April to June 2013, the bankruptcy manager's income was 11,150,000 dinars, as a preliminary prize, at the end of the bill another 1,320,000 and another 3,652,000, and even the preliminary rewards of 2,240,000, plus the cost of 1,646,875 dinars, so that he made an eight-month income of 16.5 million dinars. Today, when you enter the Anti-Corruption Agency, you can find that he doesn't have any property, which is absolutely not true. I've removed the relevant property documents from the catastra, the MPs can see it. It shows that his favorite bankruptcy manager has several bars and one apartment on Vrakar, which, of course, has not been reported to the Anti-Corruption Agency because she has also joined this story with the Securities Commission, with bankruptcy managers, etc. Thanks to the success of this association of bankruptcy managers, which is not present here now, has delegated their people to the Anti-Corruption Agency, where the mother of the MP assesses the report of her daughter, her leader, her friends, and thus successfully conceals the bankruptcy property kidnapped by minority shareholders in Serbia's territory. That I, dear colleagues, would not hold you back, must convey the message of the citizens, no matter what I may risk, that my throat is ripped out, that no matter what the poor are, and they have made them poor, more than the bread they need, they want justice and they want to sanction the behavior of those people who, through the Commission, have acquired huge capital through the deceitful shops in the country, have made millions, while millions have lost everything, lost a roof over their heads, etc. The message of ordinary citizens is to punish millions in favour of millions, and that's what I'm going to end this speech with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6579	Thank you. The word has Alexander Tomic. Do you want as an authorized promoter to take advantage of your time?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6580	The Honorable Chairman, honourable MPs, to conclude today's debate. But before we finish, I would just say that some MPs like to tell the truth, regardless of what a stenogram and notes exist for. When asked: “How many years have you worked? “ Mr Vladislav Stankovic answered 18 years, and “when did you work in the Commission? “ The decadent answer is: “I have a certificate, I have officially delivered by the employer, where it says that I have been dealing with matters in the Commission in the field of securities of value and that I have been employed in these jobs since 15 September 2008. ” So if someone says they don't have papers for it and they don't have a certain relevance to run for office, and here, flagrantly violates virtually all the rules of procedure and the biggest one, it's ethics, that we're telling the truth and only the truth. In the end, I would just say that when we talk about some who had their candidates and here they teach us a lesson about whether or not someone in conflict of interest, we MPs can't check it out. There is a Anti-Corruption Agency that says and issues a document. Mr. Marko Jankovic brought a document from the Anti-Corruption Agency, and probably someone has better information from that agency when he gives us some information that we don't have here today. In the end, I would say that those who lecture us here brought candidates for this kind of Commission precisely those who simply boasted that they had a great deal of experience in privatization, not less than as associates and representatives of OMV investment, a company that worked practically privatising "Hajnikena", "Simbrefta", "Vicorija Group", "Farmacoma", "Positija", "Jugohemija", "Knjiz Miloša", "C Market" and "Belgrade". Well, people like that have been candidates, and they're giving us a lecture on who's supposed to work and who's not supposed to work. DJB's candidates here teach us about justice, ethics, whether anyone can or can't be a candidate. Serbia must move forward with regard to reviving the Charter Market from the value of the institution must start doing what they are legally required to do. Trust must be restored to investors and small shareholders. The state has to start protecting small shareholders, investors. We need a new political consensus when we want to implement a new concept, in general, the development of the market, the resuscitation of the stock exchange, and what we need right now, really, to declare this to a commission that will finally start working with all relevant entities in order to really revive the capital market. The voting day should support this proposal adopted by the Finance Committee, because it is in the interest of the state, because it is in the interest of all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-17-0.u6581	I want to tell the MPs, it is my right, that indeed, an MP, Sasa Radulovic, does from day to day verbal violence with me. I want to say it out loud. So this isn't about talking about the session or anything, it's about actually doing verbal violence with me. Please stop. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: Say how? Please stop. I'm not going to comment with you at all. (Sasa Radulovic, from the place: Say what? I don't want to discuss anything with you at all, but I want everyone to know, it's really not easy for me to run sessions at all, under this kind of pressure and bullying. You're harassing me. I am concluding a unique search into the motion for a decision... (Saša Radulovic, from town: Replica. ) (Tatjana Macura, from town: Replica. You won't yell, leave me alone. You can't yell. Enough of this harassment from all the MPs in the O.R. You're really harassing us. I don't have a replica because I decide whether there are any elements to the replica or not. Don't harass me. Every day you put pressure on me to start doing what you want me to do. That doesn't make sense. You can point at all the microphones you want. It's not even fun, it's not cultural, it's rude, whatever you want. Get out, watch TV, make a mess out of this assembly. What do you want? You're not funny at all, it's really a disaster, what you're doing. (Saša Radulovic, from town: Replica. ) You do not have the right to replica under the Rules of Procedure Look, what kind of behavior is this? [[Tatjana Macura, from town: She has the right to replica.]] Please, what kind of behavior is this? [[Tatjana Macura, from town: She has the right to the replica Aleksandra Tomic mentioned him.]] [[National MPs of the SNS get that they have no right to replication.]] I ask the MPs not to do my job, there's no need. Please don't yell at me, when you're in the chair one day, when you have a majority, you'll lead the Parliament the way you imagine it's done, and that's violence. Besides physical violence, you're harassing me. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: You too are implementing it. No, I put up with it. (Saša Radulovic, from town: Replica. ) I invite you to look at the play – Suffering, you will understand what is said when it comes to physical and verbal violence. Since we've done a unique search... We'll wait for the MPs to come out. There, the messenger knocked on the door, to see what else they had prepared, and if we had anything else for tonight, for today. After we have conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the motion for a decision in general and I will inform you who are interested in the work of tomorrow. At nine o'clock, the committees are starting to work, and at 11 o'clock, we will continue to discuss the amendments that will be discussed whose reports we will receive from the committees in charge, and that is how we will work in stages. Thank you.
