ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11894	The 50th is one in a row that looks like he's gonna fight the neighbors. I will read it, after we finished last night, once again – the manager is setting up and keeping records of owners of special parts, owners of independent parts and persons who are joint or special parts of buildings to rent, i.e. on use on a second basis. For natural persons – name, last name and JMBG and for legal persons – business name, address, seat and home number. The obligation to manage and maintain independent and special parts of buildings shall only be owned by those special and independent parts, as well as by the tenants of the apartment in public property for an indefinite period of time. We think it's enough for the warden to keep track of these faces. Since there is no provision of this law established the need for the building manager to keep records of persons who are tenants or other renters, unless the operator and the building intend to conduct the tax control of the renting of apartments. If the intention of the proponent of this law is to carry out tax controls through the building manager, this should be explicitly and legally regulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11895	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 50 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MPplatimir Stevic. Does anyone want a word? The 50th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11896	Here I have proposed in this amendment, which defines the rights and obligations of the warden, some of the things that are of general interest, of general public interest, as well as the interests of the tenants who live in that building. So, because we know that about half of Serbia's living space is not registered, i.e. that it is not recorded in the cadastre, the manager when making a list of the housing units that are in his building to check into the cataster that is registered and then initiating the book, since it seems that no one is dealing with this problem. The second thing I have also proposed under this amendment is illegal construction. When a person builds, builds a floor, does not matter, or expands his living space, that the manager is, after taking up, expanding to the public space of the building, or to the common space, the one who will check in the municipality whether there is adequate documentation for this type of work and then informs the building inspector if he sees that there is no adequate legally valid documentation. I think it's important because it can happen that the works move far away without anyone reporting it to the inspection. In your explanation, you stated that it was a construction inspection. That's fine, but if no one informs the building inspection, because the inspection can't go through all the buildings and control whether someone's building or not, then there's a problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11897	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11898	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment promoter is now moving away. So, I mean, when a professor at the university turns his back on a farmer, that's a serious reason not to accept a amendment like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11899	The word has been made by Professor Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11900	Just to make it clear to everyone what the government is really asking for an MP for this parliamentary group. He asks that the professional manager first check the ownership status of the apartments. That's the first thing he's looking for. The other thing he's looking for is for the warden to conduct inspection. I don't really know, but that wouldn't be possible for two reasons. First, because we have an inspection to do his job. Secondly, if you are speaking an example of the building, there is no superstructure unless there is a decision of the owner, then the decisions of the householder’s congregation, including the work of the inspection service, not to mention that you are practically intruding into the ownership relations of the apartments. It seems to me that it would be really anti-constitutional, one, and then on and on. (Dusan Pavlovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11901	Only colleague Sonja Pavlovic has. (Dusan Pavlovic, from the scene: She talked about something I said, I was misread. I know, but she didn't say anything offensive. A colleague of Sonja Pavlovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11902	It's completely misread what my colleague said. So no inspection is expected of the warden and that he reports or does not report anything that is not illegal and does not happen that the building inspection goes out so quickly on the ground and that illegal objects are done without all the necessary permits, so they are called illegal, so they are subsequently legalized. What is important for this is that the controller's data should be collected on the basis of data from the immovableity register and based on that immovableity register should establish and keep records of owners of specific parts, owners of independent parts and tenants for a certain period of time. The fact that the immovableity register is not completely complete, it is the biggest problem in Serbia and a colleague, among other things, focused on it at the start of his exposure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11903	The word has been made by Professor Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11904	You know what, I don't really know what anyone thinks, I know what they say and what they wrote in their amendment proposal. So you wrote it like this: the warden has an obligation to check the legal validity of construction works under one every new upgrade or extension. If he notices that construction works do not have an appropriate permit, he reports the case to a construction inspection, etc. That's the one thing you said, so he's doing the construction inspector's work. He's checking if the housing unit is registered, so he's checking to see if the housing unit's registered. Well, please, this is a professional manager, so you get involved in business, you absolutely don't know how to distinguish how far you can go, and where there's simply private property. And I'm still not explaining it, since it's obvious that it's without question that you think you're right.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11905	Thank you. National MP Dusan Pavlovic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 50a be added after article 50a. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11906	I don't know, Madam Minister, have you ever heard of building in Serbia, building without permission? If you heard, it's good. In this article, I have submitted an amendment concerning the submission, i.e. the notification of the financial situation of the residents in their account. So, since the administrators will also take care of the financing of the household, since there is no concrete sanction, unless the manager does so within the appropriate time limit. There are provisions, of course, which oblige him to submit and report to the tenants about the situation in the building's account. But there is no sanction unless he does. I wanted to enter here a provision, which says that the manager who has not submitted a financial report for more than six months to the tenant's assembly is automatically resigning. So, I wanted to point out that this is an obligation that has a sanction, if it doesn't come true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11907	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11908	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, this gymnastics exercise that you're refusing my time, because it's very much these gymnasts are distracting me by turning my back on me, etc. Here, let's wait for this Mr. Eurolove's older man, 'cause he needs a little time. I don't think this amendment should be accepted, because the promoter is asking for what he didn't ask for from the bankruptcy manager, that's that too often financial reports are submitted, that their leader, the bankruptcy manager, was filing such reports, that workers wouldn't lose their jobs and trusts without property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11909	Thank you. On section two, the name above the 51st and member of the 51st Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Gordana Comic and joint MPs of the Democratic Party group. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11910	Our proposal for an amendment for Article 50 is point 6) is deleted. In point 6), as Article 50 defines the rights and obligations of the administrator, it is said to establish and keep records of owners of specific parts, owners of independent parts and persons whose joint or specific parts of the building have been leased, i.e. on second-hand use, for natural persons the name, last name and unique home number of citizens, and for legal persons the business name and address of the seat and home number. So our amendment is this way proposed, because we believe that the data provided by the Director and by the natural persons are not in line with the Public Information Access Act. We think that it is an estimate that, unfortunately, we did not hear in yesterday's debate from the Minister, what is the number of housing communities or what number of housing communities are expected in Serbia, what number of managers, professional managers? We are wondering how these people will be selected and how they will be checked safely, because in the announcement of these new structures large amounts of data are entrusted, very confidential, and we think they can be misused. In the end, whether or not these people will be checked securely, because they can track and move the tenants, they can have a lot of information about what's going on in the building itself, and we don't think all this data should be available to people who can't be completely controlled. So, a large number of people without defined procedures in advance.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11911	The word has a minister, Professor Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11912	You weren't there yesterday when I was just talking about that important data that you're talking about right now, but let me rephrase it. This law has received absolutely all positive opinions from 27 institutions, one of which is very important to us institution, institution of trustees. The trustee, not only received the law, gave his specific opinion on the law, the Ministry and the Government of Serbia accepted everything, but indeed everything, from the beginning to the end, the suggestions of the trustees, then we re-sent the law to the trustee and the trustee, which we have written, said there were no objections to the draft law on housing and maintenance of the buildings that we sent afterwards. When you talk about professional managers, and about whether or not they'll check themselves out, they will. An amendment has been accepted, in particular, to verify whether they are in criminal records, whether they are in the process, anything that I think is normal to ask, and before that they will have to undergo training, they will have to take exams. There will be publicly available information about them, who these professional managers are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11913	On behalf of the members and of the 51 amendments, the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11914	We propose this amendment to delete the organisation for professional management and respected Madam Minister, you kept mentioning some balls in the absence of arguments yesterday. This is one of those balls that you need to look at, so you can see how organized it is, or what the intention is to organize a party employment system. What do you need a legal face for, as an organizer of professional management? Or an entrepreneur, as an organizer of professional management? It's the first economic cost for the citizens. Why shouldn't citizens directly, or housing communities be directly in communication with the conclusion of a contract with a professional manager, and what would a mediator do with it? That raises the cost. One part of the fund for the organizer and one part for the professional manager. The other thing is, which is why you want to achieve a monopoly, because mostly the organizers of professional management, because of the connection they have in the municipality, will get all the forced administrations in buildings and will therefore be in a privileged position on the market, and will shut down and drown all individual professional managers. He's not a controversial professional manager, if anyone wants to close a deal with him. We welcome that. If the housing community wants us to, we are opposed to imposing professional management and the organizer of professional management. Because the organizer of professional management is here because there is a key to party employment and there is a key to the monopoly. Where else can we look? We heard an example of public enterprises, we heard some other examples. Look at the example in the environment. I repeat, there is a similar law in Macedonia, and in Macedonia the government has similarly abused the institute. What did they use? These professional managers went and listed, exactly what you want, apartments where no one lives and no one stays, and then before the elections, they reported a large number of persons fictitiously to those addresses and manipulated the elections. Something the SNS is probably planning on next, right?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11915	The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11916	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, the SRS is in principle opposed to professional building management. Madam Minister, we don't doubt your good intentions, I would suggest that you take off your pink glasses sometime, not everything in Serbia exactly as you want to present, defending this law and explaining why amendments should not be accepted. You suggest introducing a company or a person who will professionally manage building maintenance. It could be in those cases where the owners of the apartments want it, but you had to try a lot more to do through the bill that the owners of the apartments themselves are trying to maintain their apartments. Do you know that in Serbia there are a large number of individual housing that are not covered, that there are a large number of private houses that do not have a facade? If you think they don't have a facade or they're not covered because someone doesn't want to, you're wrong. That's because he can't do it for a reason. Many apartment owners were in charge of buying these apartments and taking loans in Swiss francs, so the more they paid, the more they owed. To all of this you will now introduce professional management of these buildings. It's not possible, it's not real. There's a need to take care of the area of the apartment. The housing law was passed in 1992, many things were overcome. The housing law is from 1995, the Social Housing Act is from 2009 and many things have been overcome. There was a need to change that, and you probably did this so unprofessionally, we heard yesterday, the common majority, the ordinary minority, really this law contains some provisions where a decently informed legal writing man was ashamed of what you brought before the MPs and you want this to pass and to live. It's not real. It's not possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11917	The word has been made by Professor Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11918	If we had listened to all of you in the past 15 years, 20 years would probably not have lived in Serbia. Who knows how far Serbia would stretch. It's very real, as real as having an electronic building permit, so is this. But the citizens of Serbia know there is no obligation to hire a professional manager, but the possibility would be best, it would be great if residential buildings, residential communities could actually have people from their neighbours so-called. The presidents of the house council who can take care of building maintenance. That would be ideal, but it hasn't happened to us in 15, 20 years. So there's this possibility. In some other countries, it's an obligation. Through this law, we've only created the possibility of such a thing. Why are we talking about companies? Because we don't want to narrow down the possibility of professional managers being just entrepreneurs, we're giving it a chance to be some wider circle of people. It is very much explained, and as an economist, not as a lawyer, that ordinary majority you now mention is the concept that is absolutely in every law of this country, in the Business Society Act, etc. The common and simple majority is 50 plus 1. I'm an economist, but that's how much I know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11919	The word has been given by MP Sreto Peric, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11920	Listening to you means listening to Young Dinkic. Serbian citizens believed, did not listen but believed in some of his empty promises, so you saw where Serbian citizens were found. Then unfounded, probably, counting on some of the better ones to show confidence in you again, which is a big mistake and they see it for themselves, and they probably regret it now. There is a Mrs. Minister qualified most, an ordinary one does not exist. Yesterday, my fellow MPs showed you when handing over a written notice, all of our legal regulations are known and considered and treated by written notice or submission delivered to the post office, it is recommended that the moment it was delivered to the post rather than the moment it arrived at the competent state authority. You are, indeed, trying to deceive Serbian citizens this time. Mrs. Secretary said if she'd listened to us for 20 years, nothing would have happened. We listen to Serbian citizens, we don't listen to you or anyone else.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11921	The right to reply has been given by Professor Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11922	The qualified majority is the two-thirds majority, and the common or simple majority is 50 plus 1. As for Mladjan Dinkic, I wasn't much of a fan of his even though we were in the same party, as you know, I was more of a fan of Labus, who you also couldn't stand. But as a citizen of this country I remember very well, and many others remember both wars and problems and cans of gasoline and lack of anything in this country, it was not from the SNS, nor from Dinkic, but from you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11923	By amendment, MP Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11924	Madam Minister, you can't tell your party president and the Prime Minister what you just told me, but I guess he's a reasonable man and he understood that you're talking to him now, not to me as a member of the SRS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11925	On behalf of members of the 52nd and member of the 52nd amendment, MP Gordana Komic and the MPs of the DS group together submitted the same text. The word has a national emissary, Natasa Vučković.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11926	Mr. Chairman, we have submitted an amendment to article 51 with a proposal to delete both the member's name and the article 51. The main criticism of our parliamentary group on this bill concerns exactly the idea of professional governance. We understand the good intentions of the ministry and the government to introduce an area of housing and to modernise the issue. However, it seems to us that this introduces a major change that requires, above all, one major test and it would be very good if the principle of professional governance were first tested as some kind of pilot project that makes up big developed countries when they introduce such major reform changes into one area. It seems to us that professional management will significantly endanger individual rights and the right to privacy because it is given to professional managers the right, the authority to enter to a significant extent in the way of life and life in a residential community. That's why we tabled this amendment and we think the government should accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11927	The word has been made by Professor Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11928	Well, we can't work so we're always alive and at rehearsal. To repeat once again, a professional manager is not an obligation, he is an option. We give the owners of the apartments the opportunity to hire a professional manager who will provide them with the particular service they need. They can do it and they don't have to do it. So, the thing is, the owners of the apartments are going to be organized to maintain and manage the building. For that reason, we cannot accept your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11929	The People's MP, Alexander Chabrai, submitted to the 52nd Amendment. Member of the 52nd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. The word is by MP Dusan Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11930	Article 52 sets out the way in which a professional manager is called, point 3 of Article 1 says he is registered in a PKS-led registry. Can we get some explanation of what qualifications or what was the reason the ministry had led to give this authority to the Chamber of Commerce, i.e. What's the Chamber of Commerce supposed to do that for? As far as I know, the PKK is not known for running the registers, but rather for a private association of entrepreneurs that should encourage entrepreneurial development, entrepreneurial spirit, entrepreneurship at all. I suggested that, instead of the Chamber of Commerce, the registry be run by the Ministry responsible for the issue of housing. I think since we still don't have any, under normal circumstances, this register should probably run some kind of professional association. But since we don't have one, we're obviously looking for some sort of replacement. So, between the Serbian Chamber of Commerce and the ministry responsible for these issues, I would, however, until some professional organisation is established, give this right to the Ministry instead of the Chamber of Commerce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11931	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 52 of the amendment, together with the correction, the MPs Dr Milorad Mijatovic, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic, Dr. Ivan Bauer and Milan Bicanin submitted. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has been made by MP Ivan Bauer.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11932	I thank the chairman. Dear Vice-Presidents, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to this Article 52 concerning qualifications and conditions on the basis of which someone can deal with professional management. In paragraph 1, qualifications are defined, and after Article 3, we asked to be added, and we were adopted, paragraph 4. First, I'd like to read Section 3 in order to make it perfectly clear what we're trying to achieve here. Therefore, paragraph 3 states: “The registration of professional administrators shall take place at the request of a person who meets the conditions laid down in the law. ” So that's what it says in the existing point 3. We added attitude 4 because we felt it was very important and thank you for adopting it. Therefore, we have asked that the professional administrators' register in Article 3 cannot be entered in a person sentenced by a judicial decision to a prison sentence for a criminal offence that makes him inaccessible or inadequate to carry out the professional manager's affairs. So it's not enough that he just meets the conditions prescribed by the law to choose this place, it has to be a person worthy of performing such a function, or it can't be anyone who's been convicted of a crime that's in any way connected to the performance of this function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11933	Thank you. Member of the 52nd amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 52nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Constantinović and Zdravko Stankovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11934	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is good that the Government has accepted this amendment. With this amendment, we have specified that when a professional manager is already introduced, that professional manager, who should professionally carry out his duties, should harm the owners of the apartments and the housing community, must answer, and that responsibility consists of paying for the damage. In order to be able to pay for the damage, it is very important to be secured, so that this amendment provides professional responsibility, i.e. responsibility for the damage caused by the professional manager in terms of the existence of insurance. I think that in the same way that you accepted this amendment, it could have been accepted and an amendment to ensure that the housing community would suffer any damage to the citizens due to the negligence of the residential community and the owners of the dwellings.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11935	Thank you. On behalf of members of the 53rd and member of the 53rd amendment, in the same text, MP Gordana Comic and MPs of the Democratic Party together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 53 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sonja Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Sonja Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11936	There are a lot of dilemmas and unknowns in this law that should lead to order, and we don't really know, a lot of things aren't defined. Among other things, in this article 53, which we have predicted to be deleted in general, are particularly listed the competences of professional managers. Why is it necessary, if a professional manager does the same job as a simple manager, to specifically list his responsibilities? I mean, these are entirely some discrepancies that indicate that a professional manager is not just going to do the job of a simple manager, but there are going to be other responsibilities that are beyond the real needs of living communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11937	The word has a minister, Professor Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11938	Well, just because he's a professional manager and he's got extra jobs, extra assignments, he's paid for something like that. It needs to work more than the usual manager and therefore should provide better conditions and better quality conditions for tenants and owners. That's why it stands for all the jobs of a professional manager.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11939	Thank you. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Alexic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Dveri group together submitted to Article 53 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Bosko Obradović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11940	The Honorable Chairman, dear fellow MPs, respected citizens, is helping God to help everyone. I would like to be in the context of a series of amendments that are now following, and in fact concerning what the minister has always denied, and of course that is the fundamental intensity of this law, which is the mandatory management of all buildings and housing communities, as you call them, in Serbia. So it's true that you leave the possibility that the housing community chooses its own manager from its ranks. If he doesn't, he can also choose the professional manager you license and determine. But if he doesn't, he'll get a forced professional manager appointed by local self-government. Is it true? Yeah, that's right. So, you're going to introduce forced management of our buildings. What does that mean? This means that local self-government, which you advances are now in charge of, will be licensed, of course, with the help of your Serbian Chamber of Commerce, your party listeners to be new premises for your party employment. During your time, Mladjan Dinkic, in your time, Mrs Mihajlović, you have long been in power, you have ruled at the time of G 17 plus and, behold, to this day, it has been said that Mladjan Dinkic started the "stop party employment" campaign when he hired all members of G 17 plus. You obviously didn't hire all members of the SNS, but you spent your space of employment in the EPS, in Telekom, where you've hired them on temporary and occasional jobs so far. Now this law opens up a new space for hiring your party staff and you think that now that there are so many buildings in Serbia, we tenants in the buildings are your space for your party employment and that you are setting us up with forced managers who will actually be licensed on your part, across your Chamber of Commerce, through your local self-government, forced us as your party soldiers to control us in all our buildings. Of course it has to be deleted and of course it has to be questioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11941	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11942	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It seems that, from time to time, there is always some need to explain something further here to some who do not understand or do not want to understand certain things. Our local self-government, our Chamber of Commerce? Interestingly, but somehow I have always experienced that these local self-governments belong to those people who live there, who will take care of these local self-governments choose, democratically and honestly choose, and then that local self-government takes care of those people who say who they think is competent to take care of that end, to take care of their lives. The Chamber of Commerce, the same principle, not to say analogly applied, only on a slightly higher level, at one national level. It's very interesting that someone doesn't see it as something of their own, like something that belongs to him and to the people around him. He may be experiencing it, but he won't say it. He may have some terrible need to re-occur to the SNS here and talk about party employment again, completely flat-out, completely general, without even a single concrete piece of information why it should be like he says, whether or not he is or not, we don't expect it either. To be clear, more than empty stories we don't expect here or can win. I guess that's pretty clear by now. As long as this congregation lasts, we've never heard of anything more concrete or more precise. I don't have the unreal ambition to hear something like that one day by the one who keeps challenging the replicas here, but I don't understand why there's anything against the possibility of people agreeing, so if they don't agree, then the system takes care of something. Is it better that where there's no deal, the building could crash? It always seemed like a worse solution to me, but given how much reason and logic are there, I don't expect us to agree on that. The question of whether anyone can be a licensed manager, if anyone can be a manager in a situation where there is no deal, doesn't need one who causes replicas to throw it away so easily. It is certain that after the first election, whenever they are, they will no longer sit in the National Assembly, so they may find bread for themselves one day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11943	The word has a minister, Professor Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11944	Well, let me answer that, right? God help you, how you're going. But what I was listening to yesterday from the representatives of your parliamentary group and what I hear from you today is just amazing, just as Mr. Orlic said, not one argument, not one fact, not one proposal, not one meaningful comment, nothing I should, or I could answer for, precisely because of the citizens of Serbia that you are constantly talking about. You didn't read the law, you didn't really care about that law. You have your mantra to talk about it will be political employment, it'll be this, it'll be what, but it's your political programme, and your thing, it's not a problem, but because of the citizens of Serbia, everything you said is not true. The citizens are right and they need to agree and it would be wonderful, I repeat once again, if we all agreed in our buildings, to maintain our buildings, not to harm any third party. But it is astounding to me that you who use the slogan of the famous, legendary, bravest, duke in this country, and this is Duke Misic, is painting with the slogan – who can. Is that right? So, you use it, it bothers you first to use a slogan like that, and on the other hand, you appear here as a man who hasn't even read the law. So, it's too bad and sad for our Serbia if that's how you behave.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11945	Right on the replica, MP Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11946	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You see, the minister's been partying since she was in G17+, so now she thinks she's hiring further party when she's in the SNS. So, we in the Dvora are not naive, we know and see what you're doing. You brought the so-called so-called. an indication of the ban on employment, and all the time you are employed by contracts on temporary and occasional transactions both in Telekom and in the EPS and in a series of state administrations and local self-government. So, the whole of Serbia knows that one thing you can do in Serbia is get a job if you're a member of the SNS, that there's not a single employment agency except for membership in the SNS. And you now convince Serbian citizens that you will not abuse the forced professional manager for party employment of the SNS. Well, who do you think trusts you, Mrs. Mihajlovic? Well, no one trusts you. No one in Serbia believes SNS anymore. You are, I have already told you this once and I can tell you again, since you've arranged everything in Serbia, because everything works perfectly, business and agriculture, and the rule of law, since you've solved all cases of crime and corruption, now you have time to organize our buildings. Who are you kidding? So don't introduce us to forced managers. Don't boss our buildings. Don't put SNS party soldiers in every building to spy on us. Do not impose additional pressure on the citizens of Serbia, to whom you impose forced professional managers, which will only be an additional imposition on citizens. You've already taxed us, you've raised taxes, you've raised taxes, you've increased excise taxes, you've cut salaries and pensions, and now you want to pay us extra taxes on our buildings, you've raised taxes, you've raised taxes, you've raised taxes, you've reduced wages and pensions, and now you want to tax us more on our buildings, you've been taking loans without the will of all the tenants, you've given to various companies that you're going to license, you're going to start. You hold everything in Serbia and now you think you can take all our buildings.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11947	Right on line, First People's MP Vladimir Orlic. The MPs' group mentioned it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11948	Exactly, God helped him, I missed out a little while ago, and I should say it out loud might give him some effect. It's true that whoever can do this, but based on everything I'm hearing from the one who insists on challenging here, I can only conclude that neither reads the law nor looks, unfortunately it can. We're wondering now what the whole of Serbia knows. This reminded me of, I think, Mr. Gutovic, when he so funnyly explains how he can defend a completely pointless thesis, he says -- well, all of Serbia knows, every well-intentioned citizen knows that what I'm saying is true. Well, about that much was serious and convincing what we were listening to earlier. Do they have to, or don't they have to, the wardens to come at the will of anyone but the will of the tenant? Of course they don't have to. Who knows, and who knows. He knows everyone who's even read the law and listened to this debate, which has been going on for days. Who can't know? The one who can't understand, or maybe he didn't give himself a chance to realize, that he wasn't in the O.R., that he wasn't following the session, that he didn't even know if anyone was asking that question, or whether anyone was answering that question or answering the question. So absolutely nothing. I'm saying this now for the citizens, not for those who pretend to know nothing, that they don't understand anything, or pretend, I'm sorry. Absolutely nothing, on this subject does not have to and will not, in practice, happen beyond the will of the tenants themselves. If they are able to agree, the agreement reached, organised internally, everything will be in line with that agreement. Now, where there's no deal, so we don't get into a situation to say, about these buildings, no one gets old, then we need to regulate the system. No clearer, no more honest, and no more logical if we're to be honest. On whom Serbia trusts. Serbia has repeatedly given a more convincing answer in the elections. And to whom Serbia does not trust, we can also ask ourselves that question. For example, I know he doesn't trust the doss, so he can't trust the new doss, and he can't believe the words of whoever comes from that new doss, and he can't say anything else, because as they say, the crow of the doss never came out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11949	Right to replication, Professor Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11950	You say no one believes you. Yeah, you're probably right, over 50% of Serbian citizens who voted for SNS probably don't trust us. You must be right about that. I have to admit, I'm not really brave enough to hide behind the legendary Duke of Živojin Music. I think it's the greatest army leader of the Serbian army and it's just amazing that you use his words with your ignorance and your disdain. That's why I'm sorry, and I'm even scarier when I need to see that one Animal needs to be in the coalition and with Enough has been enough with DS, because that's what you're making, the new political alliance, and that's what you saw yesterday. But to return one more thing for the citizens of Serbia. There is no obligation, I repeat once again, to hire a professional manager, citizens themselves, or owners of apartments determine whether they will organise themselves or eventually hire a professional manager. There's only one goal of this law, and that's to bring order into our living relationships and maintain our buildings, nothing more than that. (Bosko Obradović, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11951	You have no right to a replica. On behalf of members 54 and member of the 54th amendment in the same text, MP Gordana Komic and MPs of the DS group together submitted. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11952	Thank you, Vice President. We're the Minister's ladies on several occasions yesterday saying the DS opposes the introduction of professional managers, thus creating and registering them. The reason is that we are deeply convinced that the result of this law will be that in all buildings, managers will be introduced because the presidents of the congregation of tenants who are supposed to be building directors, in a large number of cases, will not want to accept the many obligations they now have under this law and will not want to be held accountable for the work they do volunteer while at the same time someone else, in another building, is paid. You asked me yesterday based on what I think will be members of the SNS, those professional managers. We told the DS that we know that based on what you've been doing in Serbia for four years. We're entering the sixth year of your authority and I advised you, I don't know if you've done this since last night, that with anyone on the street you've talked to and that you're asking him if in Serbia today it's possible to get any jobs without being a member of the SNS. If you did, he must have told you it was impossible. So the result of this law will be where the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will pay their reduced salaries and pensions to some of your party activists who, in turn, will keep some records of them, make registers, collect their data, dispose of information they do not have the right to have. That's why, who knows which time I'm telling you, the DS is opposed to bringing professional managers into the building.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11953	The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11954	Thank you. I would invite fellow MPs not to support this proposed amendment for reasons because we also need professional managers, because it is necessary, if tenants in buildings don't agree to have a representative, that we have a man who will organize them, who will have the possibility that what has been destroyed in the last 30 years, because I can say and responsiblely that there are a large number of buildings where our people now live built these 70s, 80s. A small number of buildings have been built since 2000 on here, but these buildings that were built then are buildings where one of them owns this building where there are no tenants, so there's no need for professional managers. Therefore, we have a large number of activities needed to maintain these apartments, and we have the possibility that if these people agree to normally introduce a forced administration and that there is thus analizing all those bad things, specifically, bad roofs, bad walls, on all sides of the leak. It has to be maintained, and we're witnessing that a large number of residents don't want to do it because everyone looks at themselves and doesn't look at the common interest, because that building is failing. In some buildings, there are mobile operators who have been given the opportunity to set up there, where 5,000 euros a month, even more for each building, and these funds do not go to the tenants, let them go to some individuals who have been placed there for seven or eight years.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11955	Comrade Miletic, bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11956	That is why we need to support this law, and that is why we do not need to support this amendment. I, as an MP of the United Peasants' Party, will support this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11957	Thank you. The 54th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Dusan Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11958	Thank you. This article introduces itself, we now come up with a very interesting piece, registration of professional managers, and it is said to be done by the Chamber of Commerce, and that the Chamber of Commerce will also organise exams for the licensing of bankruptcy managers. So, they're gonna give licenses, they're gonna organize exams, probably courses, I guess, that the wardens are gonna have to take. I have the next question. I looked at the 2015 Chamber of Commerce Act, where Article 12 lays down basic businesses of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, and I am interested in whether maybe in that member or in another member, which I may not have been able to see, there is some provision that says that the Chamber of Commerce is dealing with education issues in the sense in which it can issue some diplomas or licenses that someone can do afterwards. So, I neither found in this law the possibility that Serbia's Chamber of Commerce would issue licences nor any other diplomas based on which you get any employment. Of course, there is a possibility in this Article 12 of business education that the chamber can organise, but it is more of an informal education from which no profession, or diploma, follows. I suggested that instead of doing this in the Chamber of Commerce, this is what universities do. I think they're much more qualified to organize courses and issue diplomas, or licenses to do this job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11959	Thank you. The word has been made by Professor Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11960	That's no problem. The law states: A Chamber of Commerce or another legal entity that meets certain conditions. So, they can do universities. That's one. Under two, the ministry gives consent to such a thing and the ministry makes rules of general training and passing exams, licensing and possible withdrawal of these licences, so that not everyone can do what they want, but certainly universities can do it. [[Dusan Pavlovic, from the place: Can you replica?]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11961	You have no right to a replica. (Dusan Pavlovic, from the place: I was misread. But it's not your discussion that's wrong. To Article 54. The amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) To Article 54. The amendment was submitted by the MP, Dr Ana Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 54 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Nenad Christmas. The government has not accepted the amendment in the basic text, and the correction has not been declared. The Committee on Spatial Planning, Traffic, Infrastructure and Telecommunications has accepted the amendment with the correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment, with correction, is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word has a People's MP, Nenad Christmas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11962	Thank you. This amendment to Article 54 defines the role of registrar, in this case the Chamber of Commerce. I asked for another position to be added which, in addition to keeping that basic register, does not practically say what is to be found, to be strictly defined to be a list of active contracts with residential communities that the professional manager has, a list of expired contracts and a list of broken contracts. What does it matter? Since we believe that time will also show up because of the resistance that professional, particularly imposed managers will not be accepted, but it is certainly good that there are professional managers, so which housing community wants to hire them, let them hire them. This housing community will need certain information to gain insight into what these people have done before. This amendment is about having some history of their work with other housing communities. I would also like to ask the minister, since she is in the planning of this member of the law, where the Chamber of Commerce is defined as a registrar and who will be doing other jobs related to professional managers, they must have had to plan some resources. I did not see it in the light of the law, and these resources could only be planned on the basis of what they could give an estimate of how many professional managers there would be, and in order to give it, they must know how many housing communities there would be, so I would like to ask the minister, even though we have repeated it several times, on what basis they are and whether there is an analysis of how many residential communities there will be in Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11963	Thank you. The word has been made by Professor Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11964	We accept the amendment with the correction you gave.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11965	Thank you. On behalf of the 55th and the 55th Amendment in the same text, MP Gordana Comic and the MPs of the Democratic Party together submitted a name. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11966	Rubrum is talking about trusting the management of the professional manager. Like all the other members, I suggest that it be deleted because I do not consider the provisions of this law to be applied. The minister's comment is that whoever we agree with about erasing the amendments or not applying the law, it's political alliances. I am then in the most common alliance with the Serbian Progressive Party – I am voting for the Brussels Agreement, for normalisation, I support the Srspak Progressive Party in European Integrations and, wherever they ask me, I am talking about how well the government is handling the tragic refugee crisis. These are even stronger political alliances than when the People's MPs of the Dvora together with me feel that these members will not be applied because they will not. And as much as you try to disqualify that people have their perspective and their vision of what's going on with the law, by saying -- ha, ha, ha, you don't mean it because you really mean it, but because you're from this party, it won't help what this law wants to do with its normative optimism. I understand that and that's what I'm saying ethics of intent. This law wants to change narrative, mentality, the attitude of people in Serbia towards their property, according to general interest, according to the culture of housing, according to the culture of what is small or wider local community, but the way these members are written will distance us all from that goal, and should bring us closer together. That is why I believe that solutions about a professional manager or a forced manager are not good and that they will not do well, and that is why I believe that this member should be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11967	Comrade Jerkov, you have no right to speak. Now let me explain. In Article 158. it is said - if several MPs from the same parliamentary group submit amendments which are identical in content, it will be considered to be the same amendment that has submitted several Members of Parliament together and the provisions of Article 5 will apply. Article 5 states: if one amendment has been submitted jointly by several MPs, the right to explain this amendment on behalf of the applicants has only one of the signed MPs for two minutes, which was used by the co-worker. (Gordana Comić, from the scene: This is not the case. The next one's in common. ) Again, it means that I am talking to two lawyers and they seem and they do not want to read – if several MPs from the same parliamentary group, whether they are from the same parliamentary group or you have several parliamentary groups, submit amendments which are identical in content, all of them are said to be deleted, they will be considered to be the same amendment that has submitted several MPs together and the provisions of Article 5 will apply. In Section 5, it's said... (Bosko Obradović, from the place: Why are you yelling at your colleague? ) Because I repeat, and someone does not hear – if one amendment has been submitted together by several MPs, the right to explain this amendment on behalf of the applicants has only one of the signed Members of the people, and for up to two minutes. Is that clear? (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: again louder.) One more time louder, but we won't be in the broadcast. National MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Ivan Kostic, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić, Marija Janjušević, Zoran Radojić and Dr. Dragan Vesović submitted to the 55th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11968	So, the amendment provides for a completely different, or more precise formulation of who can set up management jobs and we entrust them to a purely professional manager appointed by the residential community. So there is no forced management, there is no appointment of a forced manager by local self-government, but only that must remain the free right of the residential community. We've had enough of the totalitarian regimes we've had in some previous period. Serbian citizens are already afraid that Aleksandar Vucic will become the manager of all our buildings in Serbia, because at the same time the Prime Minister and the Security Service Coordinator and the minister in all ministries and the president of all municipalities and the mayor of all cities, and there is a legitimate concern...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11969	Let's talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11970	We just wanted this amendment, Mr. Chairman, to prevent local self-government from placing Alexander Vukic as the forced professional manager in all our buildings. So we don't want to. We don't want Alexander Vukic to rule our lives and our buildings. It's enough that every night on TV, it jumps out of every refrigerator, it scares kids everywhere and on every...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11971	Mr. Obradic, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, for my warning to return to the subject, which you did not, I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11972	Bravo, Mr. Chairman. So, mentioning Alexander Vukic is a reason to receive a warning at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11973	Because your amendment says - management jobs are entrusted to the professional manager by a decision of the residential community. If you put - Alexander Wolf, it would make sense, so it doesn't make sense what you're saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11974	I explained it to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11975	No, you didn't explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11976	How do we put it and get a warning?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11977	You didn't explain. You were talking about some TV.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11978	Can I explain the amendment again?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11979	Don't explain it to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11980	Then let me talk, this is my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11981	You're talking about your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11982	Well, I'm talking about the amendment. So we take away the right of local self-government to appoint a forced manager. We don't want to be set up by Alexander Vukic as the forced professional manager in all our buildings. So it's a very simple thing. So we want to stop it with this amendment. I can't believe you gave me a warning because I mentioned the name of Alexander Wolf. So you are introducing a verbal delinquent into the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that the opposition's MP must not mention the name of the Prime Minister. Do you understand, Mr. Chairman, what are you doing? I ask you not to do so in the future and withdraw this warning. The verbal delinquent has long been expelled from our legislation.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11983	In accordance with Article 109, Mr. Obradovic, the warning is made to the MP who approached the speaker without the permission of the National Assembly president, he did not do that, who spoke before he asked for a word, nor did you do that, which, in addition to warning the president of the National Assembly, speaks of a question that is not on the agenda. That's a condition you've met and we're done with. Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. (Bosko Obradovic, from the place: What's on the agenda? You have to explain what's not on the agenda. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11984	Thanks again. As for verbal delinquents and any other sin, I think it was defined, as it was, by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, right, Mr. Chairman? But the fact that you and I understand that, and someone else doesn't understand, doesn't surprise you. We've long established that some of the terrible efforts, the insurmountable difficulties to read that book in six months, to read, to see what is there, and among other things, what, verbally, not just verbally, and what cannot be done and to be considered correct. That's what it says there. It's all good writing, man just needs to read. One more time, or he can't or won't understand. As for the story of the amendment you refer to, you rightly refer, Mr. Chairman, and I'm not surprised either, because that amendment would have nothing to say, nor would a man be able to get a two-minute story around it and stick to the amendment itself. What did it say there? Again, in case there is no consensus, there is no agreement between the owners themselves, then there is absolutely no one about it. Then it's nobody's business, nobody's problem, we're all calm. And then a nice free building can crash, the balcony can fall, a window to someone's head. How much did anyone who tried to be so loud again and talk about both the Prime Minister and the SNS and everything but their phenomenal solutions think about? As much as he thought about it, as much as he was dealing with these problems, he thought so much about everything else and was dealing with any problem of this country and this society really. Why this isn't good, I think we've said it many times. Talitarian regimes, it may not be a bad topic, it's just not for this session, but if one day it's a topic, we can deal with it together, and maybe we can start right off with those totalitarian regimes that gave him the money, so let's start with the order. Here, that's a suggestion on my part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11985	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11986	It's important to introduce order in the maintenance of housing. It is important that unless we select a manager or a professional manager, there is the possibility that local self-government or local self-government units will help until the moment the tenants agree. What I've been listening to from MPs, who's talking about how someone is going to introduce a forced administration in all residential buildings, is a really typical way of using practically Serbian citizens in your current political campaigns. I really think that the legendary Živojin Mišic, whom I mentioned, would be really ashamed if he knew who was using his motto.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11987	Mr. Obradich, you have no right to a replica. You can pick up the amendment. (Bosko Obradovic, from the place: How am I not entitled? (Srdian Nogo, from the place: How is he not right, he spoke directly to him? ) (Bosko Obradović, from the post: The Minister spoke directly to me. But I know what I'm doing. On behalf of members of the 56th and the 56th Amendment in the same text, MP Gordana Comic and MPs of the DS group together submitted. (Srdian Nogo, from the post: Rules of Procedure. ) (Bosko Obradović, from the city: Rules of Procedure! Rules of Procedure! Will you let me finish the text? So I need to stop my breath, stop living, breathe because you asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word has been made by the MP Srdjan Nogo, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11988	Mr. Arsic, Article 104. The previous speaker, Mr. Orlic, spoke directly to Bosko Obradovic, directly accused him, made various accusations unfounded at the expense of Bosko Obradovic. I know, Mr. Arsic, that there is no argument in the SNS presentations, but you cannot protect them by not allowing the basic right given by the Rules of Procedure to the MPs. Give us our right. Don't protect yourself so much, there's enough of you, so I guess you can argue with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11989	Mr. Nogo, Mr. Orlic never mentioned Mr. Obradovic at any time. (Vladimir Orlic, from the scene: I was talking about a friend of Pernar. What now? Thus, there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure in accordance with Article 104. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11990	Thank you, Vice President. I am sorry that the minister cannot discuss professional managers more seriously, except to accuse parties who are against the introduction of professional managers for future coalitions, because it is a matter that is very important to citizens. We need to talk about how much the institution of professional managers will cost tenants in buildings that have professional managers, and we in the DS believe that it will mostly be all buildings and that even those buildings that, according to this member at the first moment, will be the result, and that it will be very quickly shown that it will have to be replaced by a professional manager and we are confident that the result will be that most of the buildings will have professional managers. Let's talk about how much it's gonna cost the citizens. Let's talk about what will be the authority of these professional managers. Let's talk about how professional managers will prevent them from misusing the data they collect from tenants and tenants according to the powers you gave them in this law. Let's talk about how professional managers will not only spy on tenants and their data give out who knows who, but, as we see later in the law, have powers and enter other people's apartments without a court order, which is the opposite of the Constitution, Mrs. Mihajlovic. You can shake your head, that's what the law says. If you wanted to write something else, you shouldn't have put it in the law the way you put it. And instead, you can't talk about citizens. You're in a very unserious way talking about some kind of coalition, political stimuli. You know what? Nobody cares about that. This may interest you, and believe me, citizens are much more interested in how much professional managers are going to cost them and what they're going to do in buildings where the wardens are.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11991	Thank you. The word has a minister, Professor Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11992	I've only noticed, but I can see that it's very painful for you that I've just noticed that there are certain, let me put it better, possible potential political alliances, and that's totally fine. As far as professional managers are concerned, because of all the people who are watching us, you can't say that professional managers are going to break into apartments, spy, etc., because it doesn't appear in law, not in any member, and all the institutions and institutions that you use when you need it, which is the Trustee, have made it very clear that everything is in line with both the Constitution and the law and that from the point of view of the secrecy of the data and everything we've talked about for so long, there is no single objection. So when you get up to say something, then give something concrete and give an argument and give the fact and help make the law better. Don't say anything that doesn't stand, don't scare the citizens, don't tell the truth, and I guess that's my right as someone who's the legislator of this law to say that what you're saying isn't true. The powers are clearly written in the law, and that is why this law is more detailed than most of the laws that may sometimes be proposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11993	Thank you. The 56th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11994	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Vice President, this amendment shows that even the motionor does not write perfect laws and that a mistake can be stolen despite, as you said, the fact that this law has been written for a very long time, for a very long time, at a public hearing and everything else. One mistake has already been made in terms of most of the residents' parliaments to determine the professional manager we have seen and corrected with our intervention, but it is much more interesting that this other intervention we have performed and it is good that you have accepted, but it is talking about the subconscious desire of the one who wrote this law and this solution is related to the professional manager, as it is imagined, and that is to talk about the function, that the professional manager performs the function, and then at some point is resolved from the function. I think he's talking about the hidden intentions and what was in the head of whoever wrote this law. I know it's not you and the people of your ministry personally, and this proposal came from the Belgrade City Assembly, on their initiative, and they have in their heads when they don't tear down buildings around Belgrade at night, about officials in every building, party, of course, SNS officials, who in these buildings need to do the superior work of party creditors, commissioners, whatever they call them. You, of course, and I'm glad that this intervention and the word "function" were erased from the law, because the job of a professional manager is not a function, so someone can't be resolved from the function, as it was in the bill of law, but it's good to talk about what the intention of this law is and the intention of introducing a professional manager. It will be, I'm sure, if this law is implemented, people who will work in the interest of the SNS, by using the people in the buildings in which they do the job of temporary managers for party purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11995	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11996	It is really impossible when party president Boris Tadic is a psychologist that you too are not engaged in psychology, so you are thinking about what is in the heads of some who have worked year and a half to define this law and one 10 public debates of all citizens who have attended it and many associations that have made their comments. This is some new view and some new dimension as the laws are defined. This law, once again undermining, has very clearly defined the criteria and made the frameworks. He made precise frameworks to that border that is enough to talk about one sustainability, or building maintenance, and to take care of building management. Not a millimeter behind it. As for employment, etc., what you're talking about, no, it's all public and all the criteria will be public. A rule that will be made about how and who may be, who can apply in training municipalities to be a professional manager will be public and nothing will be under the table and nothing will be secret.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11997	Article 56 of the amendment is together... (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Replica. All right. Yeah. Article 104(3) Members of the Parliament of the Dveri Group submitted together to the 56th Amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11998	The Honorable Chairman, I'm sure you'll withdraw the reminder your colleague, the vice president, gave me, due to the verbal delinquent, the mention of Alexander Vukic. I have no doubt about your justice. So the attitude of the 8th member of the 56th, whose erasure we're looking for, again, mentions what we're up against, and that's what we're up against. The organizer of building management or how you say it right here – they hire the organizer of professional management. So it's still missing that this article says that the SNS will be the organizer of professional management and the installation of all professional managers in all our buildings. That detail was left out. I think it would be much fairer if it were said and that Serbian citizens know that the SNS will set up, as an organizer of professional governance, forced professional managers in all our buildings. Also, you think that the team is surrounded by a system of control, so your man at the head of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, Mr. Marko Cadež, your people at the head of local self-government that introduces forced management and imposes professional coercions on the administrators, I assume yours will also be these companies that will be the organizers of professional management, and thus in a great way you have rounded up the entire system of new party employment of SNS members. It's so beautifully imagined. I don't argue with that. On the contrary, I'm saying that you have a great idea of a new system of party employment, but I'm warning you of the following. Order first in your home, in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, where you have increased the budget, where you have not abolished the state agencies you promised before the elections, 150 of them that are unnecessary and are spending people's money. Edit the pay grade, arrange everything you haven't arranged for your five years of government, and then let us know you're editing our buildings. That would be fair, Madam Minister. You'll have to take care of it first at your house.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u11999	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12000	If you had read the law, and you didn't, then you would have, say, seen that the Social Housing Agency is being abolished and that the full activity of the social housing will be concentrated in the ministry itself. That's the first thing you'd see. But let me just say what you wanted with your amendment. You wanted the professional manager to be paid directly, which means the following – to give him cash on his hands or on some of his accounts, and then no one can follow money flows. That's what you said with this amendment. That looks a lot like Radulovic's amendments, but anyway. So that's what you wanted to do. We don't say that. We want to follow money flows, because we don't want it to show up that we're growing a grey economy. And we couldn't accept the amendment you gave. And I believe that you didn't understand exactly what the amendment was, because you would never, I suppose, suggest such a thing. (Bosko Obradović, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12001	Replic or do you want to talk about the amendment? Marko Djurisic, from the scene, and I don't? )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12002	Thank you, Chairman. You're proving the justice I was talking about again. Under number 1 – it is true, we want to prevent the additional harmonisation of the administration that you are organising. So, you're not only putting a forced professional manager in our buildings, you're introducing professional management organizers, so now we're not just paying for the professional manager you're imposing on us, we're also paying for the organizers of professional management. So, double entanglement on Serbian citizens. I read the law very carefully. Only, you must face criticism of the opposition – that you are introducing double additional burdens on the citizens. We're not just paying for the forced professional manager you're going to impose on us, but we're also paying for the organizer of professional management, through whom funds go to pay off the professional manager. Excuse me, why are you making it impossible for us in our buildings to pay whoever we want to run our buildings? We don't want your forced professional manager, we want whoever we want and we pay him whatever we want. So that's exactly what we want -- directly, the housing community pays its manager. We don't need a middleman. We don't need any extra bureaucracy. We don't need an extra administration. We don't need double force. We do not need a new cost for the citizens of Serbia and the tenants in the buildings. That is what we are trying to prevent with this amendment, that there is no additional cost for the citizens of Serbia. You've already burdened them with reduced wages and pensions, you've already burdened them with tax hikes, excise taxes and taxis. Don't put any extra burden on them now and double burdens and costs for professionally forced management of our buildings, organised by your professional management organizers and your forced professional managers, who will be employed by the Serbian Progressive Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12003	The word has the People's MP Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12004	I apologize, first Vladimir Orlic. You didn't notice. Marko Djurisic, from the scene: Who is now in charge of the session? )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12005	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12006	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's clear, ladies and gentlemen, that the most painful thing in the last ten minutes of whoever caused the replica again, twice in a row. It'll be that warning he got. And what's wrong with him? As far as I have the impression of certain people here, it seems for one single reason only, the one that concerns the possibility of that warning costing him through pay. So, from some here, I absolutely don't expect here any feeling of unpleasantness, let alone shame, which as MPs earned a warning by acting dishonestly. I don't believe these people understand what that word could mean. The only thing that can touch them, get them out of the track, that's the question of whether it'll cost them. The fact is, it will. It'll cost a lot of people here, and opportunities to be MPs at all, even those salaries they care about so much. Mrs. Minister did not accidentally mention their similarity with others – both are exclusively some of the internet movements and organizations that exist on social networks and nowhere else. No one saw them on the street. Well, they're probably sharing love for a congregation restaurant together where, as it were, they're having a nice and happy lunch. All of this is now under a great deal of question since not showing anything in the National Assembly, they give no reason to vote for them. They show nothing when they are unable to understand after a few days of debate. There's no coercion on the subject of the warden, where there's a deal and the style of the tenants themselves. And as strange as it may seem, I think the children of preschool age, looking at this transmission, have so far found that sentence and realized its meaning, some here seem to remain an insurmountable difficulty. It is too high then that I expect that someone knows and how the total number of public sector employees in this country is moving from year to year and that someone knows what laws this National Assembly has dealt with, for example, in January or February, but the comforting news in the whole story, ladies and gentlemen, is, and I end up with that, Mr. Chairman -- and when they're not in the National Assembly, they'll still live on Facebook, and they'll be able to shoot, just like they do today, they won't be taken away from them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12007	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? The word has the People's MP Katarina Rakic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12008	Thank you. I am really thrilled that some see in everything the Serbian Progressive Party and everywhere see the Serbian Progressive Party. I absolutely don't see it as a problem, but as a problem, I see something that we've been trying to explain here for a week, and some still don't understand. I don't have a problem if they don't understand it, but I have a problem with them repeating it to Serbian citizens more than once, and that's not the case. Just because it's said, I'm going to explain again what the essence of this law is. The essence of this law is that in an extremely precise and clear way it introduces order. First of all, to invite citizens to have a style in their buildings. If they have a style, then they choose between themselves the building manager. If they can't agree to be one of them, then they hire a professional manager from the list. So they're not making up someone who comes from their side. No, the man with the license, the man everyone's gonna pay for it, but they just want someone to do it professionally, or they can't agree, so it's a man who's gonna do it professionally. Forced administration is introduced only at a time when residents of the building can't agree to be one of them, or to be someone they'll hire professionally, so local self-government assigns them to, again, from that same list that we can all see. I really don't see what the problem is. That forced administration, too, is not foreseen by this law as long as it lasts. So it can last one day, one hour, half an hour, it can stay for two months, two years, simply until the citizens of the tenants agree. We are going back to what I said at the beginning – is that the primary goal of this law is to bring harmony into our buildings, a style between tenants, and not to introduce chaos. I don't know where you saw it, and where did you read it to interpret it like this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12009	The word is by the MP Sonja Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12010	Apparently, the law is read differently by the legislator and we who need to make amendments to him and that is the biggest problem. Over and over again, you explain to us the same thing, that you will introduce a style, that you will introduce order. Here, you see it that way. I personally see it, as well as the MP group "Enough Has Been" as a new robbery and citizens' control. You keep explaining to us the difference between the forced manager, the manager and the professional manager...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12011	Would you like to return to the amendment, colleague Pavlovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12012	I want to go back the same way my colleague came back. You keep bringing us back to elementary school, and we've finished all the schools neatly, and don't start explaining the same thing to us from the beginning. So you don't have the elements to explain it to us. You don't have the number of residential communities. You have the number of apartments in the explanation, and that's for the cut from 2002 to 2011. What happened in the last five years?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12013	Col. Pavlovic, will you tell me what amendment you're talking about? Maybe I don't know? Tell me what amendment it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12014	The same amendment my colleague spoke of before me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12015	A colleague doesn't know it's an amendment to Article 56. The word has the People's MP Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12016	Thank you. It's extremely important that we do what we're paid and chosen to do, to discuss exactly the amendments we have in front of us. So we're not here for fun and for us, but we're here for citizens who expect to know what the essence of this law is. Yesterday and today, we have a real chance, arguing specifically about the amendments, to explain to them what the essence of this law is. The promoter has submitted an amendment to the order obviously because he does not want to talk about the amendment, but wants to repeat daily that someone will hire party activists or members of the Serbian Progressive Party, simply entering into the ears of citizens as some incredible danger to their peace, home order, cleaning stairs, changing lamps. (Marco Djurisic, from the post: Is that an amendment? It is, according to the amendment. I would only pray that MPs do not shout when someone is trying to explain to an ordinary citizen in Novi Sad what is going to happen by passing the law, or by rejecting this amendment, which has absolutely no essence whatsoever. So some scary people will come and change the lamps, clean the stairs, make sure the containers are empty in front of the building, or we have chaos. Here, I'm going to give you an example of why it's important for this to be done just like this in accordance with Article 56. One simple example of the ordinary life of my building. For a while, we had the president of the house council who was a neighbor, as it had been arranged since 1945 since Tito, so we didn't change anything and the neighbor decided he couldn't face these problems anymore. He resigned, and we lost the president of the House Council, and someone's got to do it. In doing so, ever since I knew about myself, we've been paying home council presidents, and part of the fee went to them. Good morning to those who haven't experienced it, maybe they live in houses or in some environments where there aren't buildings. It's not a sin, but ask those of us who live in ordinary residential buildings. What did we do? The minister cited a positive example in Novi Sad. We had to have the president of the house council, we had to have advice from our entrance and building. Then we took the company. We're too pleased that the company on behalf of all of us is doing, and we're paying them a little less than we've paid that neighbor who's been doing so far, because they're on the competition market. We've chosen a firm that looks good to us, young people work there, they've somehow organized themselves to take this good example out of the world, and we obviously won't have to give management to a professional manager, because these kids, these young people, our job. We speak only to them. We don't argue with each other anymore as neighbors who'll do what, I've had a leak of water from the neighbor above, I couldn't find that president of the house council because he was at sea, and now I can find a professional whenever I want. I call him at midnight. I'll call him at 2:00. We don't fight anymore when there's noise in the apartments, because we don't do it ourselves, we don't knock on the door neighbors, it's because of the head of that firm they've assigned, one particular person in that firm on behalf of all of us. We live wonderfully. We drink coffee, we report to each other, we don't have any conflict between each other anymore. We occasionally gather together with them and discuss what might be even better in the building. A few months ago, we agreed to turn the facade around after a long series of years, and that's good. The Serbian Progressive Party has nothing to be ashamed of. We have a good, modern, European law ahead of us. Come on, don't be afraid of the constant change. Don't be afraid of someone doing their job and making money for us. What's the problem? Well, we're not the altruists here either. Everyone in this country, everywhere in the world wants to set up a small company, something to do, something to make money, and we consumers of these services are very happy. That's the essence he wants to hear from an ordinary man. He won't hear from the Serbian Progressive Party's employees. As far as I know, amendment promoters claim to be more popular, that the people prefer them. There may be a choice, I don't know, but local self-government is always about choices. So, they will win, have most Serbian citizens behind them, and according to their logic as the proposer explains this amendment, all members of Dvori will be employed here. But we don't mind, they're Serbian citizens. So, they'll find that job, but it's not in it. The bottom line is that we arrange our buildings, arrange the housing sites, start looking like all the decent world that surrounds us. Now, I think my neighbor understood she shouldn't sleep at night, because some evil people are coming into her building, but she can calmly keep calling me for coffee in the morning, because it's gonna be okay and practically nothing's gonna change compared to what we're already applying without this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12017	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12018	Chairman, I think the injured member of 106 is that the speaker can only talk about the subject. I don't know in the amendment that says that Article 56 of Section 8 is deleted, and that Article 9 becomes Article 8, it is changed and reads, so now some text that has nothing to do with the neighbor who drinks coffee, with the arrangement of the façade where Parliament's Gojkovic, as she has spoken here now, is being arranged on that building. Who has so many votes in the election. So none of this has anything to do with this amendment. You were a colleague of Obradovic ten minutes ago on the basis of article 109, so you took advantage of the part where the speaker did not talk about the subject, although the president warned him. You have now been looking in some other direction all the time so as not to warn Parliament Gojkovic, who did not talk about the subject of the agenda and the amendment being discussed, but talked about everything else and then, of course, you couldn't punish her. You had to warn her first. So this is the true example of the double arches that have existed here since the beginning of this call, and unfortunately they have existed before. I was hoping something would change. The only thing I'm sure will change after the next election, because you will no longer lead this assembly and you will not be able to distinguish between MPs of position and opposition. I think it's really embarrassing what you've done right now. You ignored the fact that MP Gojkovic was not in one single word on the amendment that was filed and discussed, she came here to tell her story of life, and that's fine, so yesterday's debate on amendments began. I ask you to treat every MP who speaks here like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12019	Col. Djurisic, a colleague of Maja Gojkovic was also in the topic because if you take to read article 56 and the part required to change, she described exactly what the job of the professional manager is and how she receives compensation and explained her life experiences in her law. Obviously, the problem with you is that when the arguments of your discussion are put on the table as pointless, then you go to a breach of the Rules of Procedure to dissipate the argument. I accept that this is a way of political struggle, but make sure we answer that. (Bosko Obradović, from town: Replica. You have no right, Mr. Radovice. (Srjan Nogo, from the place: she mentioned the Dvori. A colleague, Maja Gojkovic, said that Dvori would win some elections one day. Is that something offensive? It's not. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12020	You injured a member of 103, because MP Djurisic didn't speak at all about the injury of the member who cited it, I think in 106, he said, I think 106, he didn't say anything about 106, and member 103 means he doesn't have the right to replication. He replicated, all the time he wanted the citizens of Serbia to interpret my words that were very clear. I am well understood by an ordinary Serbian citizen, the respected chairman, not necessary for MP Djurisic to interpret me. I don't really know, Mr. President, that I speak so thoughtfully, mentally, intellectually, as the amendment promoters say these days. I don't know how to talk about the fears of Serbian citizens, about hopes, I know I'm talking about personal experience. I made it very clear, Mr. President, that these people who already edit my entrance and my building will now only get a license and continue to do their job. But, I don't know, I'm not so intellectual, I'm nice, I'm sophisticated, I can't speak in fog, I know I repeat the lie every day that the members of a party will do it. I'm just saying that soon, members of another party will do it, and I've actually heard the throws, so Member of the 27th President, I won't answer. You run this session and someone asks that you and I no longer run these sessions, we'll talk about it when there's an amendment on Santa to the next law. I think it's premature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12021	Thank you, colleague Gojkovic. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12022	No, because I don't think you can know everything the speaker's gonna say.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12023	Thank you, colleague. By amendment, MP Sonja Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12024	Thank you. I don't understand what ordinary and unusual citizens of Serbia are, but I understand that colleague Gojkovic lives in Legoland, which really has nothing to do with real life in Serbia. Legold, it's that lego cubes and all that, so make ideal conditions, everybody sings and flowers everywhere. But the reality in Serbia is completely different. I don't know if you've been going through Serbia recently, but we know that all of us MPs here need to follow our neighbours to explain what? The housing fund doesn't even know what it looks like, it's in very bad shape and this law should fix it. But it will be completely different. In doing so, it is said – what is the harm of professional managers making something and profiting? Well, that thing that your professional managers are gonna make, we're trying to find out all the time. It's something like how many of these professional managers we're trying to find out all the time. Of course, we can't find out when we don't even know how many residential communities there are going to be, and we can't even figure out how many managers there are going to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12025	Right on line, MP Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12026	I don't need a line, I'll talk about the amendment. There's no need to abuse the Rules of Procedure, so I can replicate here all the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12027	You were told to live in Legoland, that's why. All right.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12028	I will through the amendment that as a simple citizen MP explain that Novi Sad is no Legolden. The new Now is a decently arranged city that tries to adopt new things every time, because they want to live nicely and politely, so it's really a good example, and I want to thank the minister for leading Novi Sad as one of the cities that are not perfect, but it's harder for us to live nice and decently and that our buildings are clean, that we don't babble in the halls when our light bulbs have experienced their short century. We simply want to have a professional manager who will manage buildings, because over 50% of the buildings in Novi Sad are already largely private firms that replace those already overcome home council presidents. Yeah, Novi Sad really isn't Legold, it's one toy you can take down and do whatever you want, and then crash, etc., and we had a crash a few years ago and I hope never again. I live in Novi Sad, which is the capital of culture in 2021, the capital of young people in 2019, and I wish to you, honourable MPs, to live in such a decent and beautiful town. I don't know where you live, I don't know where you're from, but once you adopt this law, the neighbors will thank you for the order in their entrances. We will certainly, if you will, explain these amendments why we are for or against, best to photograph what houses, buildings, our surroundings look like now, and then one of us may stop being so against, against only because it is from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Prime Minister Aleksandra Vukic and Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. Well, you sign some good law, we'll support something like this, anyway, no matter who suggested. We can't adopt the amendment, because it totally loses its meaning if we adopt it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12029	Thank you. The 56th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of members of the 57th and member of the 57th Amendment, in the same text, MP Gordana Comic and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) The word of the messenger of the people is Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12030	This article makes the law even more interesting and even weirder. So, so far, we've met the term of manager, who should be someone who I'm guessing so far has been the chairman of the tenant's assembly and will now be doing a free, huge job in the future, for which the professional manager, which is the second term, will be paid. Now we have a new appointment, and it's a forced manager, who'll come into the building in a situation where tenants can't even agree to apply for registration, not about who's going to be the manager, or whether they're going to be the manager or the professional manager. So they're tenants who can't agree on anything. Then there will come someone who will appoint a municipality or a city, who will be with them, who can't agree on anything, to make arrangements about everything. Please explain to me, Mrs. Mihajlović, how will this person who comes into the building, the unknown person who will come into a building where the tenants can't agree on anything, how will that person deal with these people about anything? How's that gonna work? How is she going to impose on them all these responsibilities that they have? How will they cooperate with this person? How is she going to collect all this data that professional managers need to collect about the tenants, what else are we terribly opposed to? How will she get anyone to give a lease agreement with potential tenants to keep them informed of all those things, how will she keep records that they all need to keep, or will it be additional costs for Serbian citizens, who can no longer bear all the things you impose on them to pay? That's why I'm sorry you're not seriously talking about this law, because this is very important for the citizens. Please tell us, how will a forced warden deal with tenants who can't agree on anything?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12031	Time, colleague Jerkov. Thank you. The word has the People's MP Katarina Rakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12032	Thank you. I'm glad we're making progress, we've now understood a part of the law, and we still don't understand one part of it. As for the very forced administration that will be introduced into the buildings if there is no housing style and if there is no agreement among the tenants, it is someone who is professionally employed, no one will come anyway. So once again, this law clearly and in detail defines every concept. What you're thinking, that's your problem. I'll explain it to you now, but I repeat, I'm glad that at least the first part you understood, that you've just repeated it and I'm glad we're making so much progress. As for someone who will come as an emergency manager who will be brought in, no, there will be no one, nor will anyone bring him in, but a licensed director will come in professionally from a list run by the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, and that someone who will choose him from that list will be local self-government. It all says well and I'll repeat how long it takes, and if I have to and I'll draw here for some people who understand it that way. Also, that man won't do anything but what's licensed for him and allowed to do. As much as he will be the manager, or forced manager in that building, the tenants themselves will decide, that is, the style of those tenants. So that's exactly what this law makes them agree to. On the other hand, they don't have to. If they like the way it works, which was assigned to them by the municipal administration, or the local self - government unit, it can remain in the building for a long time as manager. So now I hope you understand this second part.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12033	Thank you. Members of the 57th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Ivan Kostic, Miladin Ševarlić, Marija Janjusevic, Zoran Radojić and Dragan Vesović. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12034	Here's a member who proves we're right about everything we're saying. The term "member 57" says clearly - forced administration. So, is it clear to all of Serbia's citizens now that you want to introduce a forced administration into all of our buildings in Serbia? I liked the presentation of my colleague Maja Gojkovic, who I think spoke very much in favour of our amendments, and I will explain why, because she is talking about this article and this amendment. So, it's not a dispute, we agree with you that order should be introduced into our buildings. It's not disputed, it's nobody's slow, but there's a question left -- how? They can motivate local self-governments, as it was done in Novi Sad, to motivate residents in the residential community to regulate their functioning of the housing community without this law. This was confirmed by Maja Gojkovic, she said – here we in Novi Sad without this law have arranged everything. So it's okay! What's the matter? Dispute is your intrusion of the organizer of forced management. Forced professional manager, new imposes on Serbian citizens. The forced character of all this is controversial. So, we don't choose, as a housing community of the forced or any other administrator, you impose on us through the local self-government of a licensed forced professional manager, who, of course, is a member of the SNS, that's a guess. What's the problem here? Imposing, coercion, coercion. You haven't arranged things in the government, you haven't abolished unnecessary state agencies, you haven't arranged the situation where you're in charge, Madam Minister, and you want to arrange in our buildings. Justifiably, Serbian citizens have a great fear that, as forced professional administrators, phantoms from Savala show up and break into all our buildings and apartments with phantoms.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12035	The word has the People's MP Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12036	No, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So to explain, colleagues, to explain to people who live in Chačka. You don't need to be afraid of anything, so now we're meeting strange people around the city who clean our buildings, our streets, who carry and bring, I don't know the garbage and the containers that move. Me and Serbian citizens don't know these people personally. So there's no fear. What you're saying is that someone's afraid of Chačka. The Chacans are very brave men, determined men, when they see this forced warden, they will not die of fear. So there's nothing to worry about. You don't represent the whole of Chachak, fortunately, so a very small number of people will dissuasion, or MP who submitted the amendment, that something needs to be feared. They should only be afraid of the order, which they were unable to carry out on their own. That's what Article 57 is about, which is the easiest thing for you not to read the entire amendment, to delete an entire article. That's the easiest. So that's where you say, you know what forced management is? Forced management is something that can only be introduced if something doesn't work. So if everything works, there's no forced administration. I don't know how else to explain it to an honourable MP. If it's even filed. Then this forced administration, the warden, this terrible man or woman, they're making an application to sign up a housing unit, I don't know, picking out a new warden, etc. Who's calling this warden and how's the warden setting up? If he calls the owner of a special section, some housing unit. Don't come scary alone. So he has to be called by one of the tenants, which means the bravest one, who doesn't have that fear of an unknown man, called a forced warden or inspector, who's also not afraid of that man. It's very simple, if you want to develop a terrible fear in the work of the citizens of Cack, to explain it to them in this way. Just like that. Thank you for agreeing with me that Serbia should be arranged and therefore do not delete this law, but join this, join the education of citizens, because in 1945 we failed alone, we failed alone. Come on, let's do an exhibition about what our cities, our streets, our buildings, most of them look like. Come on, let's be honest with ourselves once. Where there's no style, where there's no agreement, there's a forced administration. That's how forced administrations and local self-government are introduced when we're all fighting. Let's not encourage our citizens not to be, like, people in some European countries, where there's no need for us to fight, that's what someone on our behalf is going to do, some professional who's just doing his job. Am I going to know him, or am I not going to know him? I don't care about that at all. I really don't know people coming in and out of my building. I'm not paranoid. But really, if we can't do something, then the inspectors, or one of the tenants who isn't happy to call, write a submission, two or three sentences, and decide to require a forced administration, to carry out some basic measures. Thank you. So we can't accept this, Article 57. - deleted, if deleted again, we would all be here for the rest of the chaos and poor state of building management in Serbia. So we can't accept this.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12037	You may, by amendment of your colleague Obradovic, have no right to replicate.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12038	So, distinguished colleague Maja Gojkovic admitted the key thing I repeat, that Novi Sad regulated the matter of housing arrangements without this law on forced administration. So that's possible. It's not our buildings that own the government of the Republic of Serbia, or local self-government, but our tenants in the residential community. We can't get in, as a forced professional manager and no one can introduce us to any forced administration. No one can give us extra expenses and charges. No one can impose on us the organizers of forced management. No one can get SNS members as licensed forced professional managers to impose on us in our buildings. We Chacans are not afraid of anything, we proved it in the elections when we defeated the SNS in nine polling stations and won 25% of the vote. So we don't have that problem that we're afraid of you and your forced business managers. But if you get in our buildings your spies, well, they won't be able to. So, it is very important that what colleague Maja Gojkovic said, it is possible to arrange our housing without forced administration with certain stimulating measures of local self-government that will regulate the area. If that's true in Novi Sad, well done, let's do this new-sad example in all cities and municipalities. If not, then Maja Gojkovic is not telling the truth. But if that's true, let's do this New Sad example in all cities and municipalities without forced administration to arrange the functioning of all our buildings. So that's what we're talking about. You cannot treat our buildings as the property of SNS, the government of Serbia, local self-government, these are our buildings, not yours. We're a living community. No one can introduce us to an emergency administration. We'll arrange our own building. So, the amendment is - deleted, member of the 57th Introduction of Forced Administration. He's gone. He can't. No, we're not. These are our buildings, our property, our management. You SNS can't run our buildings. A very simple explanation, should I repeat another Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12039	Say it again.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12040	So, if it was possible to edit the Novi Sad without forced administration, it is possible to arrange all of Serbia without forced administration. I'm just referring to Maya Gojkovic's argument and I don't see what's controversial about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12041	You may find nothing controversial if you watch a Balkan spy movie. I strongly recommend it. Right on line, MP Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12042	My colleagues have no help, they won't understand at all. So I was talking about Novi Sad where there was no way we could agree and agree that one of us was doing it. Simply, 21st century, people are very busy. So, we came into a jam, had no one to fix it, to make repairs, to call the masters and so on, which are also unknown faces, I have no idea who's coming in, to fix the heating, the water heater when it's broken down, and so on. Maybe in the smaller environments, everybody knows each other, so you know who's who, but in the larger ones, no. To an esteemed colleague, not only in Novi Sad, I was a tenant until a few months ago in New Belgrade, and that building has already applied the provisions of this law and hired a private firm. That's how it works here. And let me tell you something, there's no coercional manager coming in first, you're gonna unlock his door, and secondly, there's no need for a forced warden, MP, please, just imagine. Forced management means something's not working. None of that style of yours, if you need an emergency manager. This is just a provision of the law, so a member of the 57th predicts when you in that idiocy stop getting along, then someone calls a forced manager and a miracle, the article says that one of you, of the neighbors, is going to do it. So no one comes in from the street, no idea because you live in harmony or you don't live in harmony. You simply know what the essence of this law is. You know what it says in article 57. I'm convinced you're intellectual enough, otherwise you wouldn't be elected here if you understood this law. You're intellectual enough to want to spread fear among the ordinary world. (Bosko Obradović, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12043	You have no right to a replica. According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Marija Janjušević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12044	Chairman, I point out the breach of Rule 107(2) of the Rules of Procedure. At the meeting of the National Assembly, no direct address of the MP is allowed. You did not warn a fellow MP, Maja Gojkovic, when she apparently forgot to sit in the chair seat, so the MP Bosko Obradovic spoke directly. I think it will be easier for all of us to do this great work that is ahead of us and these important topics for our citizens properly and finally if you have the same arches for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12045	My colleagues, I have the same arches for everyone. (Maria Janjušević, from the place: He says – Messenger. It's not a direct address. If someone mentions someone's name and name... (Maria Janjušević, from the place: Isn't it direct? Who did she say that to? Maybe she told me? I'm not an MP? The word is made by MP Borisav Kovacevic. (Maria Janjusevic, from the post: You did not ask me if I wanted the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day. ( ) Do you want the National Assembly to declare itself in the day of the vote? Yeah. ) It will come out. Here you go, colleague Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12046	Thank you, Chairman. We've been very involved today, and we're discussing in particular the issue of forced self-government, the forced manager, starting with the assumption that I shouldn't say ugly. I don't see this law, nor in this department of forced management of a forced manager anything but an extraordinary incentive for tenants, residents of residential buildings to make an effort and force themselves into a style, to choose their own manager. I live in a building with 163 apartments. It's a huge building, hundreds of thousands in Belgrade. Are we going to let the tenants know what the situation is now in my building, since 1978, and now they can't agree to choose the building manager. It stands for mercy and mercy. Do we have the right, to ask our conscience, the MP here, to allow the enormous property of these buildings to fail and not to determine anyone in this country, in this society, that they must care and save from the collapse of that total property if the tenants are not safe enough or disagree? This law only has that intensity. This fear that is being expressed all the time that one party that is now in power or tomorrow the other, that it will impose its managers, etc. There's no such thing as me. There's no reason why if you get into a situation where the building can't agree and choose the manager of the building, so there's a threat of forced administration, it can only make these people come to their senses and choose among themselves the manager and manage the building. I'd like to point out something else. When we have our manager in the building, not the forced one, I don't think this law of that intensity has shown that anyway local self-government and someone has to monitor whether the building is well maintained, because the manager we chose is not a guarantee that it will be adequately maintained and kept property. That's why I don't see any fear of forced administration. It's just the ultimate measure when there's no other way to keep that general property safe.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12047	The word of the Messenger of the people is Krsto Janjušević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12048	Dear Deputy Prime Minister, the Honorable Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think that many times the amendment has been very well explained and in terms of practical application and in the sense that no one has taken over anyone's buildings, but that we want to help people, to relieve them, but there seems to be good political bites with some cheap demagogue that someone is going to fall into the building and do what they're about to do. So we're going back to the fact that the constant insistence that these people will be SNS is gonna be some army or whatever, there's no other explanation than that these people who accuse us of it are coming from themselves. So, the auto projection is a miracle. As for hiring professional managers, I don't think it's right that sometimes, critics, you need professional managers, and sometimes you don't. So it's clear here. When we need them, we hire them, and those who criticise us, more precisely, the applicants of this amendment were after the election on their famous humanitarian action – give your vote for our censorship rescue, hired a professional bankruptcy manager to push them a little bit to cross the censorship. So sometimes professional managers need to, and sometimes they don't? Make up your mind about one thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12049	National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 57th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12050	Although the minister here spoke of a year and a half of discussion and work on this bill and I don't know how many public debates, some things have been subdued here. We have again sought to delete the name of the professional manager's office, and it is good that the government has accepted it, but, I repeat, it comes from the intention of the promoter who wrote such a law. It was the Belgrade City Assembly that repeatedly boasted that it had initiated the adoption of such a law and the fixed idea that there was a face in every building, a SNS official who should, as the chairman said, remember the movie "Balkan spy", probably to play spies who would, in this case, serve SNS, report what citizens are doing and what their problems are and whether they have some tenants, whether a friend from the interior or something like that came to them and to report to them where they are.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12051	Are we going to do the amendment you've been adopted now?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12052	Well, I'm talking about life experience, just like you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12053	And you have a spy in the building?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12054	Well, here, let me finish it in these 30 seconds. So, the fact is that this law and these members intend to introduce a business manager, and that this will cost the citizens, as you have discussed your experience, are the only thing you forgot or haven't told us how much it costs you now. Here, I have the same experience to share.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12055	Two hundred dinars a month.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12056	Instead of 500 dinars, the sooner we get a professional manager, we pay 1,200. I'm happy to pay like that, because now some things are being solved, but it's costing. And what you said was that you would empty this law further on the wallets of Serbian citizens...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12057	Thank you. Your time has passed. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12058	Right on the line, Madam President, but yet all one sentence, there's no need. What we just heard, not only was it absolutely on the line of one who was fascinated by a "Balkan spy", so he acts as a character from there. This is completely in the spirit of a man who, by his own recognition given yesterday, has neither read this law nor any other in this set of laws, so that is how it should understand everything he has to say. Thank you. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12059	No, he didn't say who. I am also the chairman of the previously fascinated film "Balkan spy". You didn't say you were fascinated. Article 57 of the amendment... (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Replica. Well, you don't have time. Member of the 57th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does Dusan Pavlovic want to talk? No, I don't. Thank you. On chapter 4, the title above article 58 was submitted by Gordana Komic, member of the 58th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12060	Thank you. As with all the other members, I propose that the amendment be deleted, since I believe this law will not be applied. I'm grateful to the colleagues who participated because they made an argument. This idea of putting in order, it won't work, it won't work. And I'm sorry that applying the style here is mixed with people's discipline and motivation, that self-discipline and awareness of the goal and for emergency interventions and for ongoing maintenance and for investment maintenance, think about your local community. We have, I repeat, a banal misunderstanding, but insurmountable. The style cannot be applied, it is built, a dialogue in which you define what your goal is here, in which you are not talking about a blessed solution that the minister responsible for housing tasks is closer to determine the type, scale and dynamics of the activity of the 1st article, which speaks of emergency interventions and ongoing maintenance and investment maintenance. I know that the ministry, or the minister, will sign the most important act for managers from the Assembly of Professional Managers and Force Managers. When you say that sentence slowly, then you'll understand how much cognitive dysons we're talking about here about a very important law and how easy we don't understand the difference between discipline and obedience. Obedience is realized by fear. Fear doesn't bring results. Discipline is realized by motivation. In order for people to be motivated to change their behavior when it comes to local environments, the provisions of this law must look different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12061	Thank you. Dusan Pavlovic submitted to Article 58 of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12062	Thank you. Respected citizens of Serbia, the amendment determines the ministry's competence, i.e. the minister of building maintenance. I'll read it briefly. It's about emergency interventions, ongoing maintenance and investment maintenance. It is then said in recital 2 that the minister in charge of housing affairs is closer to determining the type, size and dynamics of the activities referred to in Article 1. So the minister deals with emergency interventions. The minister deals with the ongoing maintenance of buildings. The minister deals with investment maintenance. Is it perhaps too much work for a minister, or one ministry? I have suggested that this position 2, which determines the responsibility of the minister, i.e. the ministry, should be deleted because I think it is wrong for the ministry to deal with this issue. These things should be left to the buildings, i.e. housing units. They decide for themselves how to resolve these issues. See what you say in paragraph 3. – improving the properties of the building or part of the building are activities that improve energy or other properties. So, the ministry will now be able to commit buildings to do some things that, say, buildings don't have the money to, say, introduce energy efficiency, to raise credit to introduce energy efficiency. You know, this is imposing unreasonable costs on people who may not have the money for it. Please don't give the Ministry this kind of authority. This doesn't make any sense. If it's a free organization, as you say all along, it doesn't take a minister or anyone else to interfere with building maintenance. It's not the department's business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12063	Members of the DS parliamentary group and the MPs of the Dveri group together submitted to the same amendment in the same text. The word is Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12064	Thank you. Similar to MP Dusan Pavlovic, we propose to delete the last two positions of member 58, which speaks of the ministry's truly unrealistic competences when it comes to emergency interventions and ongoing maintenance and investment maintenance. We think the ministry has no need, no jurisdiction, no opportunity, no capacity, no time at all, to deal with these things. We think it will really cost extra to the tenants that this law already imposes on. We are particularly concerned about the statement by Belgrade City Manager Goran Vesic, quoted in the discussion in principle, which stated in which cases, for example, the residents' assembly, the former, current residential community, will be ordered to fix the facade, so he stated how insecure it is, so he says – or if it is simply ugly. So if someone's façade of the building is simply ugly, according to Goran Vesic, the tenants of the building will have to pay for the repair of that facade. That's not what the law says. We asked you to explain whether it means that Mr. Vesic did not tell the truth when he spoke about it or did not understand the law or what it was about, but simply, it is unacceptable to impose new and new financial obligations on people, all under the pretext that there is some order in the buildings. There's no order. Professional managers are being introduced, we think members of the SNS, who will have to pay their reduced salaries and pensions, who in turn will collect some information about them, keep records and, as we can see, impose on them that facades...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12065	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12066	Mr Dusan Pavlovic, an esteemed colleague from the DJB movement, did not understand what the intensity of this law was, not realizing that it was an obligation for the minister to introduce gender equality through this point of Article 28. In particular, we have a superman in the government of the Republic of Serbia, but we don't have a superhuman.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12067	Article 58.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12068	That's right, 58.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12069	Emergency interventions, ongoing maintenance and investment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12070	That's exactly what I'm We have a superman in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but we don't have a superhuman. Now it's being introduced and superseded.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12071	Emergency interventions, ongoing maintenance and investment maintenance.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12072	Let me explain. The minister in charge of housing activities is closer to determine the type, size and dynamics of emergency intervention activities, ongoing maintenance, investment maintenance, as well as the way in which the building maintenance programme is formed. So, Mrs. Zorana Mihajlovic, if such a perilous and amazing member of the 58th law is adopted, will begin to edit all our buildings. I understand that she wants to replace Vukic at the post of Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and be superior instead of superman, but this is not realistic, this is not normal.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12073	What does super "super girl" mean? I'm not really English.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12074	So that's when you pretend to know everything, you can, you know, and you have no idea. It's kind of in the translation. So it's impossible for the minister to edit our buildings. It's impossible for the minister to be involved in emergency interventions. Do you, Mrs. Mihajlović, want to come into my building if there's a heating problem, I didn't understand, or the sewers, or what? I understand that your professional forced manager is about to break into my building and record who votes for the SNS, and who doesn't vote, that part I understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12075	MP, let's talk about the amendments. I don't even have a shred of tolerance to want you to talk about everything and everything. So it's about the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12076	Okay. So, is Professor Zorana Mihajlović a professor of the esteemed Faculty of Megatrend, really a "super girl"?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12077	Thank you, MP. I can't let us talk at least. So if you're asking to delete a specific member, we have a few months to learn what a specific member means. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12078	Thank you, Madam President. You know that we always look to be serious about the times of the National Assembly, so this time there will be no need for this to be a long-awaited time for replication, and at least we have a desire to meet senseless and empty stories that someone initiates, because unfortunately there is nothing better than that. This was interesting, and it's worth commenting on maybe only in two details. First, to realize that someone besides seeing themselves as an actor of the movie "Balkan spy", while thinking of MP Cvorovic, seems to be being betrayed for a kind of fan and comic-knower. You could even say that makes sense. I recognize certain characters, comic characters, every time that someone comes in here, they get up and whatever they say. I think it is not bad to note that the definitions and precision of the National Assembly are really necessary, whatever they mean and contribute to the quality of the debate. Since someone was explaining some character of a person who pretends to know things and doesn't know anything at all, it wouldn't be bad to define them. I think anyone who looks at the footage of today's session, so rewinds for two minutes and two seconds before the start of this presentation, for the next two minutes and two seconds, can see what a person who pretends to know something looks like, and doesn't actually know, under God's name, anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12079	Is that me? No, since it was me 20 seconds ago. (Vladimir Orlic, from the place: No. ) The word has a People's MP Katarina Rakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12080	Thank you. Now I'm simply fascinated by the re-attacks and re-attacks of women. Really, as far as I'm concerned... ?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12081	Please, just after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12082	Here, the amendment will be, but I have to say that there are some of us who really don't run away and we won't run away, and we'll definitely fight back, so you can find some other arguments to fight us, at least when you write "wipe." Then give an explanation, so how would you like to write what you want to delete, except to attack women. I'm saying, that's enough for real. There are some of us who aren't afraid at all. (Bosko Obradović, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12083	There's no sign of a "super girl," oh, great, I don't know what either. I won't allow it. That's the provision of a member I'm going to refer to. So, I'm not going to discuss this nonsense today. Parliamentarians Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 58th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12084	The wish was to fix this member a little bit and perhaps the greatest illogicality, as proposed by the bill, that the minister determines the type, size and dynamics of the emergency intervention activity, delete it. Of course, it's completely unrealistic for the minister to determine the dynamics, type and scope of activity if a sewage pipe breaks somewhere. What, people, to stop everything, to wait for the minister or minister, the "superman" or "super woman" to come and see what is the dynamics and scope of the work that needs to be taken over, so that the malfunction is resolved. And it's good that the government has accepted this amendment that is part of the erasure, but only part of the member. I want to say here, seeing as there are constant criticisms about who the amendments are and whether the laws are read or not. So our parliamentary group has given 54 amendments to this housing law, the government has accepted 17. So we've read the law, we've written a large number of amendments that aren't "expunged," but they've made some changes, and the government has accepted after a year and a half of work, and she's seen that some things can be better, but for this law, let's say, we've had eight plus six days...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12085	Will you be kind about the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12086	... We had 15 days to get ready. For other laws we don't have three days and then you have amendments about Santa... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12087	I totally understand, but it's not on this law. We'll talk about Santa at the next law. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: We will not talk.) We will. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Don't interrupt me.) Don't take away my word. ) You do not want to talk about the amendment, but you want to sum up and give the final word. Marco Djurisic throws. No, no, no, So you're admitting yourself that you're denying that I'm the one who decides or any other chair of the replica. Thank you. At the title above the 59th and the 59th amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. Here you go. Marko Djurisic, from the scene: Shame on you. Thank you, MP. I'm glad you're never embarrassed, at least in this session. I'm glad you don't have that feeling. I have occasionally, more and more. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12088	Thank you. The current course of events surrounding the amendments to the law is in favour of the idea that all members are deleted. Because the amendment has been accepted and it would be good for MPs, who unreservedly support this law, to read which amendments the government has accepted. So the amendment to the previous article 58 on emergency interventions was accepted, so that the minister could not prescribe it. He remains a 59th member talking about emergency interventions. You can say it's enough to stand by the law, and we can understand that we have a dilemma now. Until we deleted the minister's work, which was supposed to be deleted, this member made sense. When we wiped out the minister, who's going to do emergency interventions, like prescribing nearby conditions? People's MPs are getting the "Government President", which I find inconclusive, and I ask that you do not interfere with me in explaining the amendments. So that's what happens when we have a law that, I agree, worked by people in Belgrade, was already, refused, passed a public debate, everything that could have happened to him, it's not enough because the essence of what these provisions are changing has not been clarified. That's why this is happening to us and it's good that the Minister accepts the amendments, but I'm going to bring out this dilemma of mine, I mean, it's no problem not to accept my amendment, I never talk about it, but to see with the board if you don't have a dilemma, if the minister can't have urgent intervention anymore, what does the board do or not work?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12089	On behalf of members of the 60th and member of the 60th Amendment, MP Gordana Komic submitted. The name above the 61st and the 61st amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Comic. Sonja Pavlovic submitted to the 61st Amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12090	Thank you. I consider this article 61 one of the most unjust members of this law. What does article 61 predict? According to Article 2(2), in order to prevent the occurrence of adverse effects of units of local self-government, it may decide to establish urban areas, or blocks for which the obligation to carry out certain activities in building maintenance is prescribed. What does that mean in practice? This means that urban zones will be formed, or blocks for which we do not know on which criteria they will form and that we will have, for example, different costs for the ongoing maintenance of objects depending on the zone to the zone. In fact, at a small door, it introduces the city's ghettoisation, leads to the next possibility that the poorer citizens living in the central city areas will not be able to withstand that commitment and will move to the edges of the city. I believe that this is very far-reaching, and I have also said in principle a controversial political decision, and that none of it in power should allow itself. As such, it requires a broader and very transparent social debate, and above all, an economic and social analysis of the effects. In fact, we will come up with forced migration there is an entire area of sociology of the city that deals with this problem, and this should be respected. The next position that is controversial is attitude 3, where it is predicted that the same local self-government can dictate the appearance of a facade and ban the change of appearance. That's just fine. But yesterday we've already realized that we have air conditioning on the government building, on visible parts of the facade, we don't have a satisfactory energy passport here at this facility. When the state doesn't have a chance to pay you to spend, how do you expect it from the already very impoverished citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12091	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12092	Thank you. The SRS MPs prepared some 30 amendments on this bill, but unfortunately, because of the fact that the urgency of this law has been removed, our amendments have not been considered. This article 61 seems somehow best to explain the essence of this amendment, first of all, I mean the amendment of Gordana Komic, who suggested that this member be deleted, as well as some other members of this law. And we've been thinking about whether to delete all this or try to amend this law and, here, I'm sorry, I think that our amendments, really, are as much of this law as they would make this bill acceptable, because this is really not acceptable. It reminds the whole of this law, and this member, and the debate on amendments and this amendment reminds us of the period when we are almost all parliamentary groups, two were not in this assembly, when discussions were being held about the introduction of the perpetrator and the introduction of a municipal inspection. And then most of the assembly had DS, and we all accused them or distracted them that all the perpetrators and all the communal inspectors would actually be DS activists, and that it would be no use to the introduction of these new institutions and on the contrary, that it would be bad for the citizens of Serbia. And that's what really happened. They defended themselves in the same way that the Progressive Party is defending itself today against claims that all these forced managers will be activists of the Progressive Party. Of course, it turns out that we were all right at the time, as we're about to turn out now. True, the DS representatives now have many objections both to the perpetrators and to the municipal inspectors, not individually but in general, to those institutions that have introduced themselves into the legal life of the Republic of Serbia. We, the Serbian radicals, were also opposed then, as we are now opposed to the introduction of this newspaper, not because we are disturbed by innovation in any area, but because there is simply no need to impose someone's opinion on citizens in this way. And that someone's opinion will cost the citizens, and that's a fact. Here in this third position of Article 61, it is said that the unit of local self-government can prescribe by its decision the obligation to maintain the external appearance of facades and ban the change of appearance (the setting of air conditioning on the visible part of the building and so on). In any case, it's about the outside appearance of the building, where the local self-government unit, instead of determining, will define certain funds to edit the facades, they will do the façades, probably in some central parts, where it's nice to take pictures of the government representatives, and then someone there, the manager, the forced one, who will be forced, will come to mind, not by heart, but by making a deal with someone who does the façade, and then they'll say that they need to change the facade, because something doesn't look nice. Then he'll do the job, he'll probably benefit from it himself. Then the question arises, what about the citizens, the tenants who can't? People, are you aware that Serbian citizens can barely pay regular utility bills, if they can even pay them? No one has anything against the arranged facades, but try to separate some funds, when I say you, I mean the Government of the Republic, so you take care of the facade. Don't make these forced managers take credit from business banks and get those loans back who? How are people, the owners of these apartments, going to repay these loans? Another important question is being asked, did you do a little research on the funds? For decades, certain funds were allocated to the Housing Fund, from the purchase of apartments that were initially at decent prices, and later these prices really came to a very low level, but there were some funds. What happened to that? Has it ever occurred to anyone that she's combing a little bit to see where that money is? The easiest thing is to ask Serbian citizens, and Serbian citizens, you see, are unable to pay for electricity themselves. Would someone allow himself to be cut off by electricity, not have a light bulb, that he couldn't get involved in the house if he could pay? They don't have people to pay and you intend to do this nonsense and now you've got another charge. Says the municipality, in this Article 61, that local self-government will determine how much this forced manager will pay. I'm sorry, then how is the municipality going to say that everyone should pay 300,00 dinars per apartment, so then five owners won't want to, won't be able to, won't pay, in any case, and then those who pay to increase it will again be the same problem as when the residents choose the president of the House Council or the Building Assembly, whatever it is called, it doesn't matter. There's always one group, it's always a small number of residents who don't take the decisions of the majority, but it works neatly without it. If you think what you're trying to impose is going to change something in a positive sense, believe me, it won't, and believe that people are very afraid of this law. As much as you warn, don't be afraid and so forth, it's not the ignorant people, they hear, they see, they read, they're not ready to give, they're not ready to pay for that manager. In particular, they're not ready to pay loans that someone on their behalf and without their question will take. They're not ready to fix the facade just because the paint doesn't fit the other buildings, so that concludes someone you're going to set up. Indeed, I repeat, this from the beginning, as once Democrats for the perpetrators and municipal inspectors hired their activists, who, of course, turned around and took new membership cards in no time, so you will, and you will do now by introducing these forced building managers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12093	Thank you. Member of the 61st Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12094	Thank you. Also, on the same subject, according to this same member of the law, I find the whole member controversial. I think the whole member should be deleted because this member allows local self-government units to impose housing units, impose buildings, obligations on how buildings should look, what they should do in terms of investment or ongoing maintenance. This is totally insane. See what Section 3 says, which I have suggested to delete – the local self-government unit can prescribe the obligation to maintain the external appearance of the building, i.e. The facades and the ban on appearance. Do you really think this is Germany or Switzerland so that it can be imposed on the tenants of a building, the cost of changing the building's appearance? I have proposed an amendment which changes this position 3 and says – that the local self-government unit can only prescribe a ban on changing its appearance, let's say that air conditioning is placed, etc. and on condition, only if the building is protected by law and declared culturally well-being. That's as far as the state can go. Everything about the change in looks like a building can't be imposed on people in this economic situation that we're currently living in. If the municipality or state thinks the building's appearance should be likened to some concept of aesthetics, then the state itself must finance it. This kind of obligation cannot be imposed on poor citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12095	Thank you, colleague Pavlovic. Members of the 61st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Nenad Konstantinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12096	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Minister, I would like you to listen to this amendment. You can see that this article has the most amendments and the article is very complicated and I think we can come to a solution if this amendment is accepted. Essentially, you suggest editing, i.e. setting up zones and blocks where local self-government can, therefore, prescribe a special arrangement and in which, which is very interesting, the state can co-finance the façades, and in those areas or blocks they do not prescribe, cannot co-finance the façades or any other kind of arrangement. I think it's discrimination. I think we should take out the urban zones, no need for zones, if he's threatening to do any damage. There is a danger that damage will occur to the citizens because there is no facade, then the municipality or city should have the possibility of reacting to it, throughout its territory, regardless of the zones and the blocks. The second thing, which is very important, is to establish criteria when the state will co-finance and when it will not sub-finance. The way you've set zones and blocks, and we're all aware of the weather and the society we live in. It seems to us that the SNS, which is in power mostly in local self-government, will determine for zones where its voters are and finance facades where its voters are, and all other citizens will not have a chance to get that co-financing. It'll end that way. Don't make this law a basis for manipulation. I don't think local self-government should have any rules to make, that the ministry should make rules.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12097	Thank you, colleague Konstantinovic. National MPs Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojičić, Maja Vidinović, Goran Jesic, Balša Bozovic, Natasa Vukković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic and Veroljub Stevanović submitted to the 61st amendment. The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12098	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what exactly does this law mean for citizens? It specifically means that if you live in a building, you will get a forced administrator from the SNS that you, as citizens with reduced salaries and reduced pensions, will finance. On the other hand, this means that local self-government will have the opportunity to co-finance. Who determines which buildings will be co-financed? By what criteria? Or SNS will self-finance those buildings where SNS gets support. I hope you accept at least some amendment from the opposition. This law is bad. This law is bad because you are drawing your hand even deeper into the pockets of the impoverished citizens of Serbia that you have reduced salaries and reduced pensions anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12099	National MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostic, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševrlić, Marija Janjušević, Zoran Radojčić and Dr. Dragan Vesović submitted to the 61st Amendment. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12100	Respected Serbian citizens, it is exactly a member of 61st and the views we are asking for to be deleted, especially attitude 7, a key new imposition on the Serbian citizens' budget. So, through investment maintenance, through everything else that you're going to impose here, whether at the level of local self-government or directly by the minister, citizens will have to allocate new funds from their budget. Where is the role of the state, where is the role of local self-government, where is the co-financing of all that needs to be maintained, investment? So we have different, first zones in cities, we have different property taxes that are otherwise increased, which are a new imposition on the pocket of Serbian citizens. And now we have this imposition of investment maintenance without you even knowing who lives in those buildings. What is the wage capacity of people living in these buildings today, who you want to pay extra in this way? So, the key question is – can Serbian citizens bear more the burdens that the SNS government has imposed on them in the past five years of your authority? You cut salaries and pensions, and you raised taxes, taxes and taxes, and now you want to go further through investment maintenance, which you will impose from the level of the ministry and local self-government, to look into citizens' pockets and take a little more money. Where are you in all this? What do you co-finance and support here? What are you doing? Do you have feelings for socially endangered categories of population, family dwellings, houses, people who can no longer serve their obligations under your authority. They're over-indebted, they're no longer able to pay their services, and you're cutting it up and saying, "You all have to pay in buildings." How do they pay people? How do they pay? Where do they pay from?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12101	To the name above the 62nd and the 62nd amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 62nd Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostic, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić, Marija Janjušević, Zoran Radojić and Dr. Dragan Vesović. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Srdjan Nogo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12102	We propose to delete this member, and there is also a disputed establishment of this public enterprise at the level of local self-government, but also this public interest that is going through the whole law. Having listened to this debate that lasted since this morning, I have to put it in this public interest – is public interest the right to live? Since we know, according to the ministry, that the right to an apartment is not something the EU knows, so neither does the ministry, do we then have the right to live? Is public interest the right to the lives of all our citizens? I really have to ask that as a question. It's the easiest thing to do. It's the easiest thing to do. It's the easiest thing to do. It's not a dispute, our buildings aren't messy because we're incomplicated, or because we're some stubborn people who don't want to live in arranged buildings, like we did here this morning, but because we don't have a place to take them out. Where, Madam Minister, to take that loan when the people who took the loans to the throat in debt can't handle the banking charges? Where, Madam Minister, can we introduce this thermal insulation that is needed, but we can't finance it? I agree that it is a public interest to introduce the city's energy efficiency, but there is one more important public interest, and we never here in the Assembly have established general public interests, so, if you are already determining public interest, is it on your list of priorities public interest to have citizens living in a more orderly state in the sense that they have a job, in the sense that the perpetrators do not fall in and rob them of their property because they cannot repay the obligations and debts they have made, whether from banks, whether from municipal enterprises, in the sense that they are properly paid for their work. Here people work hard but the profits they receive for their work are absolutely not adequate, nor are they invested in work, nor do they need the dignity they need to live normally. If you were to fix it first, this law would be ideal, but you can't start by putting order on the back of the citizens instead of starting from the beginning, which is raising standards to fix the building.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12103	To the title above the 63rd and the 63rd amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) The National MP Branka Stamenkovic submitted to Article 63 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12104	Thank you. Article 63 prescribes four types of harras for tenants. One refers to current maintenance costs, the other to management costs, the third to investment maintenance costs and the fourth to the cost of improving building properties. This member is trying to establish a criterion on the basis of which residents will pay these costs, saying that the cost of current maintenance and building management within the residential community will be paid by the number of apartments, i.e. Special parts and that the cost of investment maintenance and improvement of building properties will be paid at the size of the apartment, i.e. per square metre. The bigger someone's apartment, the more involved they'll be in these expenses. Just when you think something is regulated, the next attitude is said – but tenants can decide otherwise, if they agree otherwise. My amendment suggests that we don't leave the tenants with the possibility of them agreeing anything, because if they could agree, in a large number of cases, we wouldn't need this law. My amendment proposes that the size of the apartment be taken as a criterion for all four harrases, because it is only socially responsible, that we stick to the economic power of the owner of the apartment, when it comes to the amount to which these four harrases should participate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12105	Thank you. Member of the 63rd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12106	Thank you. I don't really get it, I'd like to ask some explanation about this article, because there are actually two principles that determine the height of compensation. It's one by the number of its special housing units, and the other by its size. If I have two apartments in the building, that means I have two votes, but if I have, say, 50 square meters, that would mean it's determined by size. The number of special parts shall be determined when voting. So I suggested that item 2 in point 1 be deleted, because it creates confusion as to how one's obligation to maintain a building is determined, I think the dominant principle so far was, in the building's current maintenance, the apartment's squareness. If you have a bigger apartment, then you pay more, and if you have a smaller one, then you pay less than the number of housing units. So it would be a good idea to remove that ambiguity here and to remove someone's duty to participate in the cost of keeping common rooms, to determine in proportion to the size of its specific parts in relation to the sum of the area of all the specific parts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12107	Thank you. National MPs Nenad Canak, Mr Goran Cabradi, Marinika Tepic, Nada Lazic and Olena Papuga submitted to the 63rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given by the People's Messenger Olena Papuga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12108	The amendment to Article 63 has already been discussed, our amendment refers to helping citizens anyway, so if the local self-government wants the city centre to look like it predicts, nice with beautiful facades, etc., that it is not only burdened by citizens living in that area, but simply to define from its part of the budget the means to edit that part of the city, facades or whatever, or to re-route funds from the taxes of some of the business users in those areas, so that they also participate in the budgets of local self-government and from the tax of private citizens of these business buildings, to re-route funds to rebuilding that city centre or something, not only to be a burden of citizens living in those buildings.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12109	Thank you. National MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostic, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić, Marija Janjušević, Zoran Radojić and Dr. Dragan Vesović put together the amendment. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12110	Madam Minister, your explanation is true that we have technically incorrectly submitted the amendment. In fact, this word, probably "only" should have been replaced with the word "except". What was our intention, if we make that switch. To align this position of this member with the position of the 3rd Article of the 43rd Law, where it is spoken when the owner of that particular part of the building has the right to participate in the decision-making process. So he has the right to vote in the housing community to participate in the cost of maintaining joint work and land. That it applies only when it is exclusively owned by a garage, garage and garage box and when it refers to that garage and garage boxing. Do you understand me? Because here, if I own, say, one building, garage, garage or garage boxing, I participate in the cost of maintaining the joint parts of the building and the land. And I don't have the right to vote unless it's just my garage, garage and garage boxing. Then I think that this article in 43rd and this article in 63th are brought into the same relationship. So the same rights for the same obligations. So, I'm carrying costs only if they're related to my garage, my garage space and my garage box because I have only the right to vote when it comes to garages, garages and garage boxing. So only this word would be after this decimal where we started to add what we should replace, should we replace the word – except and then we have identical rights and obligations. This is how these people who only have, and that's often the case, in Belgrade, that you have a garage, a garage space or a garage box that you pay, and it belongs to another building, and you use it for your own money, so you bought it, so now you're burdened with some things that have nothing to do with your property and you can't influence the decision-making process.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12111	To the title above the 64th and the 64th amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostic, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić, Marija Janjušević, Zoran Radojić and Dr. Dragan Vesović together submitted to the 64th amendment. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12112	As we've been saying so far, so the big problem here is, first of all, forced managers, we're always against forced administration and forced managers because we don't think that the state or local self-government can be an arbiter in our property and our inter-communic relations. That is why we are against any coercion that this law provides. We don't think there's any need for forced measures, because far from being in Switzerland and having a level of standards like Switzerland or Germany. So, we don't have it, so don't play some stuff and pass one of these laws, so we're against forced managers. It is also the mandatory level of investment maintenance and all other forms of giving and taxes to be prescribed, i.e. its minimum, to be prescribed by the competent ministry and local self-government or the exact amount in the case of so-called Forced administrations are unacceptable. How has that worked so far in practice? Look at the property tax, how you prescribed it, i.e. that local self-government in Serbia prescribed the amount of property tax. It was introduced by the Democratic Party, right? Yes, it is. At the time of the Democratic Party were high, and at the time your authorities were catastrophically large, you additionally raised levels of tax rates, i.e. the tax base. For example, when you want to charge one real estate with a mortgage for credit borrowing and then when an estimate of the value of the property is done, one is the price, and it is increased multiplely when local self-government is doing a tax assessment. That's really amazing. We already have a negative experience of how local self-government behaves and we're going to get another negative experience. And imagine in practice this situation – it is a public interest to raise the city's energy efficiency and, for example, the city of Belgrade registers a tender similar to this New Year's lighting tender, it is known who is going to win, you pump huge money into a company's pocket, and then you charge the citizens that they have to finance it through these charges and charges.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12113	National MP Branko Stamenkovic submitted to the 64th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojičić, Maja Vidinović, Goran Jesic, Balša Bozovic, Natasa Vukkovic, Tomislav Žigmanov, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic and Veroljub Stevanović submitted to the 64th amendment. The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12114	Thank you, Vice President. This article is about the height and way of determining the costs of managing and maintaining the building, something I think the citizens are extremely interested in, since it is about the costs they will bear, I say, under completely unclear circumstances, and still, Madam Minister, you did not tell us whether Mr. Vesic deceived the public when he said that certain facades would have to be renovated about the cost of the tenants, even if they were "simply ugly". So I think many citizens are worried about whether someone will estimate that their building is simply ugly, so they will be forced to renovate the facade. However, what we are affected by this amendment again refers to that forced manager who came into a building where no tenants can agree on anything, he has come and will agree with all tenants who cannot agree on other matters, and it is said: "In the case of a forced professional manager, the amount of compensation paid by the owners of special parts is determined by the decision of the unit of local self-government. Forced manager makes a decision on maintenance and building management costs"... Please, this man who came to a building where none of the tenants could agree on anything, will decide what will be the cost of building management and building maintenance? Can you explain to us, here, I admit, I don't understand how this man who came into the building who can't agree on anything, will impose on the tenants the obligation to pay for something, based on some kind of decision and decision of local self-government? I think it's very interesting to the citizens, because they deserve a more serious approach from you than this, because these are the things they're going to have to pay for.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12115	To the name above the 65th and the 65th amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the title above the 66th and the 66th Amendment, MP Gordana Komic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) The National MP Sonja Pavlovic submitted to Article 66 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a national emissary Sonja Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12116	For a very short time, we have already discussed this with Article 42, paragraph 1. So, the possibility of taking credit from the housing community for which the personal owners of the special parts later correspond, we consider a major blow to the legal certainty of the citizens and we absolutely insisted that this provision be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12117	Thank you. On behalf of members of the 67th and Article 67th Amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the 68th and 68th Amendment, Parliament member Gordana Komic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the title above the 69th and the 69th amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12118	On Article 69, we have also submitted the amendment and asked for a erasure of the position of the 4th member, not to repeat now the reasons why our amendments are not being discussed. This is about responsibility for not fulfilling the maintenance obligations. The Government as a Proposer tells us in five or six views in this article in detail about this responsibility, says who suffers from the damage caused by the common parts, who, if created from special, or from specific apartments, and then you have this attitude 4 where it is said: "If damage cannot be determined whether the damage stems from a specific part or a joint part of the building, the damages correspond to a solid residential unit and owners of special parts". If this is the case, then we ask the Minister – what, among other things, is the job of that forced manager? I guess he's got to find out, huh? If he can hire someone to arrange a facade on the cost of a tenant, if he can take a loan to be paid off by the tenants and he, behold, falls by heart to draw flowers on a facade, how can he not be obliged to hire an expert to determine who is responsible for the damage that occurred in the building? Why would someone be willing to pay some expenses, because that manager we're going to pay, he's not going to find out, he doesn't know who to hire, of course, because it's going to be someone who has no idea what he's going to be hired for, because his job is going to be to collect safe votes, it's already known in advance, and the citizens know it. The question that someone has asked before, and it is said, you will let them into the apartment, and they will not break in because you will open it to them, and what if they do not open it to them, if the tenants do not open the door for them, if they do not wish? Will he come with the perpetrators then? Will he come with the police? Generally this is not well set up, and in particular in this article 69 is this problem. And when you're trying to convince us there won't be any extra costs, aside from the expenses we're gonna pay these wardens, since you planned that housing buildings would be legal faces, you didn't write anywhere who would pay the accountant? It's a serious expense to citizens living in these apartments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12119	Thank you. Member of the 69th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Dusan Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12120	Article 69 lays down the responsibility of the housing communities for failure to comply with the maintenance obligation. I'm reading attitude three now that I suggested that it change. He says the damage caused by the common areas of the building corresponds to the residential community. Here's an example of what that might look like, so let's see who needs to be responsible. Suppose the housing community made a deal with some company that's being held by the building. The company started working and, say, maintains the elevator. The company started to work, and then it started to hold the elevator recklessly and at some point the elevator started to break down, to air-conditioning. There's a tenant on the side, he's in the elevator, the elevator's gone down, the tenant's hurt himself, or, God forbid, he's dead. Who is responsible for this, did the tenants who regularly paid compensation to the utility, public or private, who have an obligation to maintain the building or to maintain the elevator in this case, or the company that this maintenance worked irresponsiblely? I think this is the second correct answer. I think it's actually the main problem or the main reason that buildings are in this bad shape all over Serbia, because the municipal enterprises at the local level that are supposed to do this job, maintain buildings, have done a very bad job. The money was actually coming out of these utility companies for various private and party needs and then there wasn't enough money left to keep buildings going. I think it would be good to consider establishing responsibility for whoever maintains the building, who has that responsibility, and not for the tenants who carry out their obligation by paying for the service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12121	Thank you, colleague Pavlovic. On Chapter V of Section 1 and Article 70 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People, Gordana Komic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Sonja Pavlovic submitted to Article 70 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 70th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Constantinović and Zdravko Stankovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) Together, the MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostic, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić, Marija Janjušević, Zoran Radojić and Dr. Dragan Vesović submitted to the 70th amendment. The word is a folk letter by Marija Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12122	Thank you, Chairman. We asked that the article be deleted as follows: “By cancelling the deadline provided for in the contract, it cannot be shorter than 90 days. ” We, therefore, undertake the owner of the apartment and his tenant to stay in the contractual obligation 90 days after they have agreed to no longer cooperate. The proposed amendment, i.e. by amendment, protects the integrity of the property rights of the owner of the apartment or of the specific part of the facility and removes the adverse consequences of the rough interference of the legislator in the mutual relations between the tenant and the tenant. That's what worries me. It is obvious that no one has taken care of the owners of the apartments again, because in your explanation you say – the amendment is not accepted for the reason why the minimum deadline is foreseen, the cancellation of the lease contract is in line with the representatives of the Association of Tenants. And where are the owners? What if that tenant didn't honor all his contractual obligations? Three months we have to keep them committed to cooperating. This is just saying that the law was written in an unprofessional way, that not all aspects were considered and ultimately, and the number of amendments you had on this bill indicates how harmful it is and not to be adopted. We'll appeal to that in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12123	National MPs Momo Colakovic and Miroljub Stankovic submitted together to the 70th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Mr Goran Cabradi and Marinika Tepic, Nada Lazic and Elena Papuga. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members 71 and of the 71st amendment, the People's MP Gordana Komic submitted. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12124	Thank you. Members from 71 to 75 with a perimeter - the use of apartments for official purposes, until emigration, define how an apartment is used for official purposes. The interestingness of these members, as well as my idea of eradicating these members, as well as all other provisions of this law, will be used as illustrations of individual views to see how justified this is. So in Article 71, there is an interesting attitude 2, which says – the apartment for official needs cannot be alienated from public property. In the same law, and before the amendments were submitted, they were members of 152 and 153, where the purchase of dwellings that were official was scheduled. The minister explained that they had honorable intentions and that it was for the members of the MUP, the families of the murdered, they were killed. If the intentions are honorable, how is it that these intentions have failed? How come we didn't recognize the integrity of intent? There's something wrong with that explanation. However, it is interesting that the final position of this Article 71, which says – if more employees, elected or appointed persons have applied for the use of the apartment for official purposes, in this case the resolution is required by the championship in submitting that request. Did you seriously come up with this view, that the decision to give an official apartment, as I quote, is written – is done according to the championship in submitting that request? What championship, content in demand, in time, the one he filed Monday at ten o'clock, he must win, not Monday at twelve?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12125	Thank you. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted the amendment together. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12126	We tried to change this article 71, make it clearer and more transparent. This transparency should be seen in the introduction of the obligation of the body providing apartments for official needs to publish on its official website, whether it is a government, autonomous province or units of local self-government, a list of those apartments, as well as decisions assigned to those apartments. I think it would avoid a variety of speculations in the public, and then sensational texts when every once in a while a list of who uses all these apartments, without a clear indication of the basis under which conditions and so forth appears. We're sorry the government didn't accept this amendment. We are sorry about the first part of the amendment, which says that the apartment for official needs can be issued to a person who has a place of residence more than 100 kilometers from where he performs his function, because we think it would also reduce the number of users. The question arises whether it is necessary for someone who lives less than 100 kilometers and has his own apartment or property, but where he lives, to get the right to use the official apartment? I think this whole law in this part where it's about use, and in those members who were later changed and bought those apartments, it's about the hidden intention of the legislator of this law to create conditions for someone to buy out. Since there was pressure on the public, then that idea gave up, because even if there really was a human idea, it wouldn't have been so easy for her to give up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12127	Thank you. On behalf of members of the 72nd and Article 72th Amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12128	Article 72 in the perimeter says – the cost of using the apartment for official purposes, and in the first position says that the employee, elected or appointed person who received the use of the apartment for official purposes bears the cost of using the apartment etc. Then, in paragraph 2, it says – employed, elected or appointed person who has received the use of the apartment for official purposes participates in the work of the congregation of the residential community according to the application of Article 41(2). So that face must participate in this law. If that's the face of what's not coming to make a quorum, then at the reunited parliament the quorum of one-third, fortunately, and it's erased, why is that face different from any other person living in a residential unit? You're putting into the law that someone who's got an official apartment on use must be involved in the work of the congregation of the residential community. Why are you putting that in law? What makes the status of that person special by stressing that he must participate in the work of the congregation? This member, as well as all these members of the law, who define the apartment for official needs, except that as in the previous case it is completely unclear how they will use the housing commissions that they issue to solve who has the championship in submitting this request, so this will also be a huge problem in application from the nature of the official apartment that is given for use, as well as persons who move into that apartment. That's why it's an illustration to delete a member.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12129	Thank you. Member of the 72nd amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a national MP, Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12130	Thank you. This law regulates two types of payment of housing costs that are in public property. The first category of these apartments refers to apartments in public property and are for official use and are given to use, and the second category of apartments in public property are apartments that are given as housing support to persons who are unable to meet their own housing needs, i.e. Homeless people who need help finding a roof over their heads, and that is regulated in later members, in Article 94 in particular. Now, the law stipulates that these four harrases I've already talked about should be paid by the owner of the apartment. In the case of housing in public property, it's a state. However, in this law, when it comes to dwellings for official purposes, it stays that way. The state pays all four harrases, and when it comes to homeless people who cannot meet their own housing needs, the law stipulates that they should bear the costs of joint maintenance of the building and the costs of a forced and even professional manager. I find this socially irresponsible, that it creates great social differences in society and that these criteria should be leveled and my amendment has gone that way, it's been rejected, I'm very unhappy about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12131	Thank you. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic together submitted the 72nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12132	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 72 practically devises the existence of official and the use of official dwellings. An employee, it can be someone who is employed in the company "Serb Corridors", is directed to work in Vranje because there is a highway running there and now this member is forced to pay for electricity, water, heating, everything is fine, and says – and other costs caused by the use of the apartment, as well as the cost of current maintenance, while other costs will be borne by the owner. So, you go to Vranje once or twice a month, and you have to pay info for the apartment in Vranje, you have to pay all the costs. Well, no one's gonna want to go. No one will want to go, because that employed person from his salary has no money to pay both in Vranj and for his apartment that he has in Nis or elsewhere in Serbia where he lives. So let's get rid of the official employee's apartments. There's no need to make such provisions. I think this is some mistake, and I ask you to correct this mistake with this amendment that we have proposed, which means that it can refund those costs from the owner of the apartment, i.e. from the company or from the state within some normal limits, what is the value, what is the value, approximately, of electricity, water and other costs charged by that apartment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12133	On behalf of members of the 73rd and member of the 73rd amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport and Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I realize this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12134	Thank you, Chairman. This amendment has been accepted by the motionors, as one 16, or 17, since my colleague Nenad Konstantinovic in the debate managed to convince the minister to accept another of our proposed amendments, and I think it speaks to the intention and principle of the work of our parliamentary group to read the laws when we have time for it, when they come to the Assembly within an appropriate time period, so we can get acquainted with their content, so we can consult with the people in that area, and then eventually react to not a small number of amendments, 54 to this law, and then the promoter finally accepts 16, and 17. We'll see to the end, maybe accept another one. I'm sure it would be good if everyone who is not eventually accepted by the promoter was eventually accepted because they are good and they improve the law. Of course, when laws come the other way overnight within three, four days together with a bunch of other laws and then MPs are expected to be quality prepared and discussed for them, that it is not realistic. You can submit the amendments "be deleted", you can not submit the amendments, and you can also submit some third amendments. I think it's responsibility for how and what quality a discussion will take place at the office of the appointment assembly. The government sends the laws as it sends them, puts an emergency procedure without any explanation, but eventually the assembly majority, or the assembly's leadership, is chaired by the one who determines the day-to-day session and the draft agenda. It is good to accept this amendment, and it is the work of our parliamentary group that has the largest number of amendments accepted in the past and in this assembly, but sometimes you cannot participate in the preparation of the session quality, because you do not have for that time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12135	On behalf of members 74th and Article 74th of the amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 74th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Constantinović and Zdravko Stankovic. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12136	Therefore, Article 74 provides for the termination of the contract for the use of the official apartment if the person acquires an apartment in the place where he performs the official shop. It's all right. By adding – if you get a habitable apartment. It's not worth anything if someone inherits a father's apartment in that place, and his own sister lives in it with his family and this one inside can't move in. So, it's not worth it, you can't make 10 live in a 35 square-square apartment or 50 square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-s. So, if someone acquires a habitable apartment in property, it's okay to end his contract on the use of an official apartment. It's just that these are some life situations that can happen and we want to predict these situations. By reason you tell us – the amendment is not accepted, because this is not how it is solved, it is not the purpose of this amendment to solve a person's living need. Great. Why, then, in the amendment itself, do you say – acquire an apartment or a family house or otherwise solve your living need? You've got something wrong. I believe it is at that speed that fellow Djurisic also spoke of, that in two days we must write 400 amendments. Neither can we fix the whole law in two days, nor can you respond to our amendments, and you have to sit all night to write your answers to the amendments and then there are mistakes. If we had more time to discuss the laws, that is, if the committee were scheduled seven days before the session, so that we could discuss on the board, we could correct the mistakes that are recorded in this law. Please accept this amendment, because it is a illogical explanation for why you reject it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12137	On behalf of members 75th and Article 75th of the amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12138	Rubrum is a ‘Obligations of the apartment user for the official needs of eviction’. Of course I suggest that this member be deleted, as well as all other provisions. I use the time I was given to explain the amendments to illustrate how good it would be, and the weak hope that this law would be applied, that the provisions would be deleted. In the first position of Article 75, he says – when evicting an apartment user for official purposes, he is obliged to hand over the apartment to the housing commission in which he was admitted, taking into account the changes that occurred due to the regular use of the apartment and things. You know, he can't both, or he's teaching an apartment in a state where he was admitted, or he's handing over an apartment taking into account changes that have occurred due to the regular use of the apartment and stuff. It's two different situations. If there's been a change, then it's not the state in which he was admitted, and that's why you're putting together the records that made these changes due to regular use. What will it look like now in the second position, legally, that the parties are obliged to establish together, in writing, the situation in which the apartment is located at the time of surrender? If he did, he had to do a bathroom renovation, is that an apartment where he was admitted or not? How did you imagine these two positions, the contractual sides in the use of the official apartment, would translate into the record to which the law and the one who uses the official apartment and the person who issues it? These are things that won't be the first time in the laws one left out, or one negligent about where it stands, causing huge problems for people to whom the law should apply.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12139	I would like to thank my colleague, Komic. To the title above the 76th and the 76th amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 76, the People's MP, Nenad Christmas, submitted to the amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members of the 77th and the 77th Amendment, MP Gordana Komic submitted. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12140	The next few members of the law are talking about illegal immigration. In Article 77, in four positions, it is referred to the person who moved into the apartment, or the common room, or a work that has legal interest or has the right to the competent person, etc. So, he's applying for a face eviction. The procedure for eviction from the position of this member shall be urgent and shall not be subject to the provisions on the move-out and resettlement procedure from the following members. I say again, as an illustration, because the provisions are written so that you do not know what an emergency procedure is and when you apply Article 77, and when from 78 to 87. He says that a decision on the eviction of persons who have moved into the apartment or joint premises of a residential, or residential and business building, without legal basis, can be made to a municipal, or city council within 15 days of the delivery day. You hereby define an emergency procedure for the eviction of persons who have illegally moved in and you must leave 15 days to file a complaint. This member of the law, in general, is inapplicable and therefore needs to be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12141	Thank you. Section two, title above Article 78 and Article 78. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Gordana Komic and joint MPs Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojičić, Maja Vidinović, Goran Jesic, Balša Bozovic, Natasa Vukković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic and Veroljub Stevanović. The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12142	Thank you, Vice President. This member is particularly interesting because he's already happened and now you're legalizing what happened. It's a situation where the complete idiots from the top of Belgrade's government, as the prime minister said, moved citizens out during the night under phantoms, destroyed their facilities, and his only regret was that they didn't do it in broad daylight, which, at the same time, he might come to watch, or to participate, or I don't know what else he wanted to do. In fact, the only difference here is that it's about objects built against the law, and in the case of samale, it was about objects that the prime minister estimated were built against the law, although he had no information as to whether it really was, and as it turns out, some of these objects were not built against the law. Here, namely, it is allowed to move in cases where it is carried out as part of the preparation for the implementation of an investment project and if it has been previously proven that there is an alternative to moving. What project? Now, for the construction of the "Belgrade on Water" project, you have evicted all who needed to be evicted, destroyed everything that needed to be destroyed, regardless of whether there were building permits, whether there were no building permits and now you want to do it all over Serbia. So this is, we can call it, a phantom member, because it refers to exactly what happened on the night of April 24th to 25th in Savala, on Herzegova Street, and now you're trying to get it into the law. The only thing missing here is saying that in case the citizens you're evicting call the police, the police are banned from responding.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12143	Members of the National Assembly of Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostic, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić, Marija Janjušević, Zoran Radojić and Dr. Dragan Vesović submitted the amendments together. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12144	Article 78, very unfortunate thing, especially because of that mention of public interest. Let's explain the situation in practice. Very often buildings and residential houses or family houses built, for example in the 80s and 70s, are built on other people's land. Or, you buy from a country, then they're free settlements like Mirjevo, like Little Wet Lug, they looked different and then the owners of the plot sold those plots. There were residential buildings, houses broke down, but no transfer of property on land was ever carried out. Then we have a situation that, for example, entire large settlements or parts of these settlements, I repeat settlements such as Mali Mokri Lug, Mirjevo, Jajinci, by Grockoj, Kaludjerica, etc., built in an illegal manner, i.e. without legalization, without planning documents and often on other people's land. Now imagine that situation. We have a public interest, which no one has precisely defined and knows what it is, and very often has been abused in practice so far, and we have some people who want to carry out some law safely, and then they take it nice and go down in order to destroy the entire settlements. A very unfortunate situation, you have to admit. We're trying with this amendment to minimise this right and that interpretation, but you haven't heard of it, and it's additional fear. If we didn't have idiots in the peaks of our local self-government, we might be less concerned. But since it has been proven, and since the highest state officials have told us that in local self-governments, including Belgrade, as the most significant and largest local self-government in Serbia, they are in power complete idiots, then we can worry about what if someone starts literally interpreting this law and is very safe in the application of this law, so it hires mechanization, hires banisters and starts to tear down all rural settlements. They don't look pretty, they're built without documentation, so let's take down Kaludierica, Little Wet Lug, Mirjevo, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12145	National MP Sonja Pavlovic submitted to Article 78 of the amendments. The word has a national emissary Sonja Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12146	As I said, at the principle debate, phantom member 78, the work title “Belgrade on Water. ” This is where the next situation is happening. Some investment project is declared a public interest, all covered by lex specialis, urban plans adapt to the new purpose of building land, people have moved out whether objects are legalised or not. We have it right here in this article, at the end of this whole article we get the following – the move-out procedure of heading 1 and 2 of this article, does not affect the process of legalising illegally built objects in accordance with the provisions of the law governing the law of the objects. Wait, please explain to me how it doesn't affect if the faces are evicted? How could persons be evicted if no solution was made to the destruction of objects in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Law of Objects? This Article 78, which I call "Belgrade on Water", pilot project for all future investment projects to be declared public interest. And you can't let that happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12147	At the title above Articles 79 and 79 of the amendment in the same text were tabled by MPs Gordana Komic, and joint MPs Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojičić, Maja Vidinović, Goran Jesic, Balša Bozovic, Natasa Vukković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic and Veroljub Stevanović. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12148	Article 79 speaks of moving to an appropriate accommodation and is related to Article 78 and defines in which way and when it is necessary to move in the cases referred to in Article 78(1) and (2). It is my duty to illustrate why it is important to delete this previous member. Article 78, which is called on by Article 79, says that emigration is done when the settlement is in the first degree of protection of natural goods, i.e. in the area of protection of cultural goods. This same Assembly passed two laws last year, on national parks and on nature protection where we have made clear with our strong opposition that the facilities located in the premises of the national parks of protected goods cannot be there, and the provision adopted here is that they will pay compensation if they threaten the ambitious continent. That's what the law says. So, for facilities in national parks. You rightly claim here to move out and thus define five positions in article 79 where families will be in the proper accommodation. The disagreement is between various laws as a matter of fact in cases where you had an unfettered purchase of apartments in public property, and then in, fortunately, the amendment of the prone members to be given the right to buy apartments in public property produces inapplicability of the law. That's why these provisions need to be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12149	Thank you. National MP Sonja Pavlovic submitted to the 79th amendment. National MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostic, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić, Marija Janjušević, Zoran Radojić and Dr. Dragan Vesović put together the amendment. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12150	Our wish was to bring this member of the law in line, meaning Article 79(3), Article 90, paragraph 2 of the Law, where you prescribe significantly higher amounts of squares that you assign compared to the said Article 79. The question arises, since it is related to Article 78 and the potential desire that some zealous adherents of this law begin to destroy what they have an interest that will be very easy to declare public, I ask you, this whole intention of the law and the question is constantly being passed through the attack on our citizens whether they are maintaining or not buildings or what kind of land they are on and how they have raised their family housing houses, is it really some desire for people to be punished because they do not have the means and because they are poor? Look at the explanation of your law where you realize that hyper inflation has damaged the previous housing policy that was brought in in the '90s and that was good until there was hyperinflation when we got a bunch of real estate owners who were poor. Somewhere I keep that intention, when you're poor, what do you need real estate for, what do you need your apartments for, and what do you need your houses for? Let's make it right, since you're poor, you don't have the right to have real estate and real estate in your own possession, but fine rent, let's make it like in American movies, rent us some managers and big-time owners who have a lot of real estate, so that will issue you these same flats and your house on rent and rent, because you can't keep buildings, facades, you can't fulfill what this law says you have, and then you have no right to have neither apartment nor house.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12151	National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 79th amendment. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12152	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 79 found that if the person who is moving is eligible for a move, to be provided with it, the local self-government unit on whose territory that person has the last residence, provides him with accommodation. So, those who move are obliged by local self-government to provide them with accommodation, and those on whose territory they have their last residence. That's quite all right, but I'm asking a question – what happens to those people who don't have a registered last resort? That's what they're called. There are invisible persons in Serbia and we cannot close our eyes before people living in Serbia who do not have a home number, let alone the last place to live. With this amendment, we have proposed a new position that addresses the question of who is he who will be obliged to ensure that such persons are relocated if they do not have a final residence. Unfortunately, you rejected this amendment because you believe that this cost should be borne by a unit of local self-government in which that person has the last registered residence. People, there isn't, these people don't have the last reported residence. Then who's going to bear that expense? I think we should regulate this situation as well. You can regulate that if you accept our amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12153	On section 3, the name above the members and members of the 80th Amendment in the same text was submitted by MPs Gordana Komic and joint MPs Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojičić, Maja Vidinović, Goran Jesic, Balša Božović, Natasa Vukković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic and Veroljub Stevanović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the 81st and 81st Amendments in the same text, MPs Gordana Komić and joint MPs Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojičić, Maja Vidinović, Goran Jesic, Balša Božović, Natasa Vučković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic and Veroljub Stevanović submitted their title. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 81 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12154	Thank you. In an explanation for the refusal of this amendment, he said he was not accepted for the reason that the proposaler had already accepted the amendment of MP Branka Stamenkovic to this same member and I congratulate my colleague on the fact that her amendment was accepted. I'm happy with that solution, with you having a mistake here again. The Minister, in order to pay a little attention, writes – Amendment to Article 81. Bills submitted by MPs point Zoran Zivkovic, which reads. I understand that you appreciate me, but if I were a mass, that would be a little too much. This large law is obviously not enough, and you cannot edit an important area in this way. It's like you want to watch good television, so you don't want cable or antenna, but you stick your fork and spoon into TV like a hundred years ago to catch something. You can't do it like that. What's wrong with this? In eviction, does the coerced manager of the building have the prescribed phantom to conduct this eviction? Do you know what the model is, which one is the manufacturer? How many times can he use it? Who will be the forced manager of "Biograda on Water"? Is that gonna be someone from this chamber, or is that some kind of special? Does this have anything to do with the hierarchy my colleagues in SNS said or other parties? I have to say something to warn my opposition colleagues. You misread the term complete idiots. It's no offense to that system of values, it's a compliment. When the Prime Minister says the top of Belgrade's authorities are complete idiots, that is a compliment addressed to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12155	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Branka Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12156	Article 87, paragraph 1. – National Assembly sessions are held on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays from 10.00 to 18:00 hours, with a break from one hour. After that, there are five other views that say that it can take another day, it can take more than 18.00 hours, but nowhere anywhere, absolutely nowhere to stop a break of one hour. Please, I'm hungry. When are we going to eat? We constantly work every day from 10.00 in the morning to eight, nine, ten, twelve in the evening without a lunch break. Maybe this congregation diet matches some MPs, doesn't suit me, I'll collapse. If it were an emergency, if it were a war situation, I'd lay my life on the altar of my country, but I don't think there's any need. Please take a break for lunch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12157	I thank my colleague Stamenkovic, I believe that I did not hurt the Rules of Procedure and the member you pointed to and you yourself very clearly and precisely said by the rule does not mean that it must, does not mean that it is an obligation. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12158	Of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12159	Thank you. National MP Branko Stamenkovic submitted to the 81st amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport and Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of members of the 82nd and of members of the 82nd Amendment in the same text, MPs Gordana Komić and joint MPs Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojičić, Maja Vidinović, Goran Jesic, Balša Božović, Natasa Vučković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic and Veroljub Stevanović submitted their name. The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12160	Thank you. We find it very controversial to move and move because of what happens in cases that are absolutely unclear, according to criteria that are absolutely unclear and we think that this is actually another way to suspend the Constitution of guaranteed human rights. These reasons for emigration are so wide-ranging, they're so inaccurately defined that it would practically mean that city or municipal authorities can move anyone who lives in a facility of some kind, an illegal object, regardless of whether or not they've filed an application for legislation. Well, wait, so what was that Law of Law then, you're the Minister here telling us there's a million and a half illegals here, etc. According to how you defined this law, it really means that tomorrow because of some investment and false investment, because we haven't had real investment for a long time, the city or municipal authorities can move anyone who lives in a facility that is illegal regardless of whether a legal application has been filed or not. We have a terrible problem because we think that you did it to legalize in the future or, as you say, legalize cases like Savamala where you're going to move people, tear down objects, and defend the police from reacting. You can't do that and it's very dangerous. Delete these members relating to eviction and resettlement because we really believe they are endangering human rights. You've set up reasons for eviction too broadly, too imprecisely, and thus opened up an opportunity for different abuses, which I think you know you've been doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12161	I would like to thank my colleague Jerkov. Honorable Members of Parliament in agreement with Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. On behalf of members of the 83rd Amendment in the same text, MPs Gordana Komic and joint MPs Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojičić, Maja Vidinović, Goran Jesic, Balša Božović, Natasa Vučković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic and Veroljub Stevanović submitted their title. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Constantinović and Zdravko Stankovic. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12162	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is another amendment that we want to point out is that there are persons in Serbia who need to move in case of emigration and who don't have a home number? They're invisible faces. And don't let them be discriminated against. So we won't be able to move them, because they won't be subject to the move plan because this article is required as an identification information name, last name and home number. We have suggested that those who do not have a home number are simply not included in the parent books, they are not assigned a home number, that their identification is based on the name of the father, mother, place of last residence, or that we have given the possibility that those who apply the law should determine those other data based on which they can be identified, and the authority that applies the knowledge that is the data, I am merely stating as an example of some of the possible data. So we're fighting for the same status as those who are invisible, or who don't have a last resort, who don't have a home number. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12163	The National MP Gordana Komic and the National MPs Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojičić, Maja Vidinović, Goran Jesic, Balša Božović, Natasa Vučković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic and Veroljub Stevanović submitted the title above the 84th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Gordana Komić and the joint MPs Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojičić, Maja Vidinović, Goran Jesic, Balša Božović, Natasa Vukković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic and Veroljub Stevanović submitted their name above the article 85th and Article 85th in the same text. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12164	How to execute an eviction solution and a member to delete one position at a time. The first position – The decision on eviction cannot be implemented on unfavourable times on Sunday, on days of national and religious holidays, at night, before elections and just before the start and end of the school year. Are you serious? Really? How long before the election? The day the election is called or 15 days before the election? What choices? Any choices or national, circuits? What does it mean before the start and end of the school year? What about during the school year? Do you really think this attitude can be applied? He says there's no eviction before the election? The second position, even more interesting, says – State and other bodies, as well as other entities that are competent to participate in the implementation of the eviction process, are obliged to take care of the opportunities in which persons who move and move and to determine in agreement with them a way that will be least harmful to their rights and legal interests. You're going to negotiate an eviction solution. Who are you going to make a deal with? How are you going to negotiate something that's not in the eviction solution? It says – The costs of implementing the execution are borne by units of local self-government. What exactly did you want with this article in '85? People's MPs earn, it's no good when they read the law. That's what life and youth get me through, reading the law. How are you going to apply the provisions of this law? Who's gonna apply them? How can you write in the law that the solution will allow the enforcement to be negotiated by the competent state authorities? Delete these attitudes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12165	Thank you. National MPs Dr Milorad Mijatovic, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic, Dr. Ivan Bauer and Milena Bicanin submitted to the 85th amendment. The word has been made by MP Ivan Bauer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12166	I thank the chairman. Dear Vice-Presidents, colleagues and fellow MPs, it is a very sensitive member who requires special attention. In order for the citizens to understand what I'm talking about, I'm going to read the headlines above this article. So it's about a member whose name is - how to execute an eviction solution. Something that is very important for citizens who come into such a position. We intervened at the position of the first member. First I'm going to read what this attitude is like. Therefore, article 1 of the 85th reads – The decision on emigration cannot be implemented on unfavourable times, on Sundays, on days of national and religious holidays, at night, before elections and just before the start and end of the school year. Our intervention was to add another reason, which is that in the days of hospital treatment of one of the family household members it is also impossible to implement a solution to eviction. I think this is quite a valid reason. This reason is no conflict with any other of these reasons, and I would really ask the Deputy Prime Minister to reconsider once more to accept this amendment. Otherwise, let me tell you in my explanation, you have stated that the amendment is not accepted because the formulation is set out in this provision in accordance with international guidelines. I suppose that applies to EU directives. As far as this is concerned, EU directives are the first very fluid category, and as we enter the EU, it is quite possible that these directives will change as they change as needed. The other thing, they prescribe something to look like, but they don't prescribe that you can't add any other reason you consider justified. So, I don't think that we would possibly add something that is not prescribed by EU directives to do any problem to ourselves, or to reduce the fulfillment of the conditions, that is, the fulfilment of this law with the EU normative, or with EU directives, so that simply once again the vice-president will accept this amendment, because I think that this reason is very important and that it absolutely only contributes to making this member better, and in no way reduces the quality of this member of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12167	Thank you. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 85th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Nenad Konstantinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12168	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is another member who makes it impossible for what the legislator or legislator wanted. This article says that an eviction solution cannot be implemented on unfavourable times, on Sundays, on days of national holidays, before elections. It's before the election today. Every day is before the election, because we're four years old. The only day that isn't before the election is the day of the election, and that's when the objects and the emigrations that were the owners of these facilities were destroyed in Savamala. Is it possible that this law introduces only the possibility of eviction and destruction on election day? In order for that to not be the case, we have proposed an amendment and specified this "before the elections", which means at the time between the call and the date of the final election results. Then it's clear from when to when it's not possible. Why would they move someone just on election day? This is pointless and we ask that you do not legalize the practice that you have established by destroying the Savamala.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12169	National MP Branka Stamenkovic submitted to the 85th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above the 86th and member of the 86th Amendment, in the same text, the MPs Gordana Komić and the MPs together Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojičić, Maja Vidinović, Goran Jesic, Balša Božović, Natasa Vuković, Tomislav Žigmanov, mr. Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanovic, Dusan Petrovic and Veroljub Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of members of the 87th and member of the 87th Amendment, in the same text, the MPs Gordana Komić and the MPs together Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojičić, Maja Vidinović, Goran Jesic, Balša Božović, Natasa Vuković, Tomislav Žigmanov, mr. Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanovic, Dusan Petrovic and Veroljub Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Constantinović and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Chapter 6 of Section 1, the name above Article 88 and Article 88 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Komic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 88th Amendment was submitted by the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal and legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I would ask Professor Zorana Mihajlovic to declare whether she accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12170	Of course, I accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12171	Thank you. I find that the amendment becomes an integral part of the law. According to the amendment, fellow MP Sreto Peric reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12172	Articles 88 and several of the next members of the bill speak of housing support. In a reasoned debate, Ms. Minister said several public debates were held in principle. The bill also explains that several public debates were held in Belgrade, Cačka, Nis, Valjev, Vrsac and other places. Public debate and public listening to us are not relevant, but we also allow this kind of introduction to legal proposals to be organised and then it is further said that all suggestions that have been well related to this bill have been taken into account. However, there is one group of people who are dissatisfied with the way this problem is solved, or the way this problem is proposed. The state of Serbia since 1878 has in its legal system a way to support military personnel, disabled people, military veterans, families of wounded and killed persons. This time it's gone. They have some receipts, but they're not personal receipts. The receipts they have are receipts based on the need to further maintain their naked life. These incomes are treated as income, as income, as personal income, and therefore they lose the right to certain assets that should arise as housing support to that group of persons. Furthermore, nothing has been explained in this bill, and a member of your party's MP has repeatedly said that there is simply no fate for more than 70 housing units in Belgrade. Are you going to solve this problem at all? We can pretty much assume in what time period these faces disappeared. They're not physically missing, but there's simply no record of where it is. The MP has repeatedly asked a question. I guess he forgets you're part of the government now, huh? Are you going to solve these problems or not? In an explanation further, you said there was a need to strengthen inspection control over the implementation of this law. Well, I guess this area and this problem should be brought to order, not just stronger inspection supervision of those who, for objective reasons, cannot meet some of the obligations that this government and this system put before the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12173	Thank you. On Section 2, the name above the 89th and the 89th Amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Komic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic to Article 89. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 89 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 89 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP Branka Stamenković. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment to be an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Constantinović and Zdravko Stankovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment to be an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Nenad Konstantinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12174	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is good that the government has accepted the amendment of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group. It refers to housing support users. We didn't understand why housing support users couldn't be people with disabilities. It's changed now. Despite other endangered categories, they too are included among persons who can be users of housing support. I think it is important that we take care of the most vulnerable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as important as it is, for which, unfortunately, you had no hearing, to take care of those persons who do not have a home number and do not have a final residence in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12175	Thank you. The National MPs Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojčić, Maja Vidinović, Goran Jesic, Balša Božović, Natasa Vučković, Tomislav Žigmanov and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic and together the National MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostić, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić, Marija Janjušević, Zoran Radojić and Dr. Dragan Vestović. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12176	So point 7 is questionable, the line 4 that we demand to delete. I am really interested, you want to provide a person with an interest that is lacking in interest and is of interest to a unit of local self-government, i.e. the authority of the state administration. What kind of face is that, and what kind of face is that? On the basis of which criteria it is prescribed or assessed or left for example. Any local self-government to judge what face they're missing at that moment, so we can, for example, put a few idiots away or we're short on bots, so we can hire, borrow from Belgrade if they have a surplus idiot in Belgrade or if the SNS in Novi Sad has a surplus of these points, let's move, say, to the King? This is a very interesting legal solution, so I'd like to see an explanation. We have certainly suggested that something like this be erased, because it opens up space to the great possibility of abuse, which we certainly have in practice so far and everything that is left undefined and so blurred, until now the competent state authorities, or the authorities of the local self-government units, regardless of who was in power, have often sought to abuse. Having the practice and experience of SNS, it is more than justifying our fear that any possibility will be used for abuse. So this definitely needs to be deleted or we're going to have, we mentioned earlier, there's no eviction around the election. So the election is a very important factor, so imagine now the local elections, for example, in Vrbas, which are waiting for us for spring, so let's local self-government say, mother, we're kind of missing some right now to glue posters, so let's hire, for example, deficits, to provide them with housing. There, that's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12177	The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12178	Thank you, Vice President. It's the same amendment. The member speaks of those who cannot and are unable to resolve the housing issue on their own and who are therefore receiving housing support. We don't have a problem with any of these categories. It's about homeless people, socially endangered citizens, victims of domestic violence, etc. except for point 7, which you have placed as the last, which is a person with a lack of interest and is of interest to a unit of local self-government, i.e. a body of state administration. We're interested in how you determine which occupations are missing? Can we get into a situation where, for example, you, for lack of interest, declare all of your managers with diplomats from private colleges? Can you, for lack of interest, declare all those false doctors of yours, since today we found out that another high-ranking state official was under serious suspicion that she was also plagiarizing her doctorate? Can we expect you to declare all the people you need for lack of interest to hire them in some way? So, without criteria, without explaining what these missing interests are, which determines which occupations are missing, we can only assume that you will provide housing support to some people who, for other reasons, need to be taken care of. You explain why the amendment is not accepted, and you say that the definition of missing interest in Article 3 is given, which is done, but it does not say in what way it determines what interests are missing, who determines, how, on what basis. Without that, we don't believe anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12179	Thank you. On behalf of members of the 90th and member of the 90th Amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 90 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sonja Pavlovic. The word is by the MP Sonja Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12180	Article 90(2) – the structures of the apartments that are designated to move the person are completely undefined by this member. We've even got three options for moving. For example, for a two-member household is the possibility of a one-room, one-room or two-bedroom apartment. I ask – what criteria will determine which apartment will this two-member household receive? First of all, I think this whole article on apartment structures is made inconsistencies and that this whole part of the law should absolutely be returned to work. At the same time, he disagreed with Article 145. I have to do this, no matter what we didn't get to that member, to say that in article 145, a three-member household gets an apartment of 60 square meters, and by article 90 of 56 square meters. According to article 145, it also receives a four-member household of 75 square meters, and by Article 90, eleven square meters less, or 64 square meters. When we fit all of this into the design norms under the Planning and Construction Act, we even get third squares of apartments that don't fit any of these squares. I really ask the legislator to bring these members in line and really get this part of the law back together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12181	National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 90th Amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. To the title above Articles 91 and Article 91 of the amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 91st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Constantinović and Zdravko Stankovic. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12182	Article 91 refers to housing support and addressing the housing needs of households and, to say, to some non-profit prices, a non-profit lease. Conditions are prescribed for who has the right. We suggest that, when it comes to the maximum profit generated by someone, that this maximum profit be reduced to obtaining this non-profit lease from 1.2 to 0.5 compared to the average salary in that unit of local self-government. Why are we looking for this? For the simple reason that in some municipalities in Belgrade, a non-profit lease would also have the right to receive a household that has 183,000 dinars. We think it's too much and it needs to be reduced to 0.5 to be a multiplication coefficient relative to their earnings.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12183	National MP Branko Stamenkovic submitted to the 91st Amendment. The word is by MP Branka Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12184	Thank you. This amendment I submitted had two kinds of interventions on this article. One is a spelling nature, since one correction refers to the correction of the spelling error, and another by intervention I wanted to completely eliminate the possibility of non-profit purchase as a type of housing support. As far as nonprofit shopping is concerned, it's oxymoron. Residential support should be provided by non-profit leases, not by purchase. The purchase must be marketable. Otherwise, as far as spelling mistakes are concerned, she's the only one who's been explained here by the legislator. There's not a single word about nonprofit buying. And the explanation is that my amendment in this regard is rejected because the same amendment, in the same text, with the same correction, is accepted by fellow Members of Zoran Zivkovic. In that sense, fellow Zivkovic, congratulations.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12185	Thank you. Member of the 91st Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12186	Thank you. I remain convinced that this is a technical error, or write error, although it can be interpreted in some other way, that formula that has been corrected, but that I am not getting into that topic. It's good that the government accepts at least these amendments. As for the whole member, he defines the criteria for the right to address the housing needs of households, etc., which require housing support, i.e. renting an apartment under favourable conditions. Let me just read one point of view and see how complicated this is. The maximum income for multi-member households, as a condition for the exercise of the rights laid down in Article 1, shall be calculated by multiplying the maximum income of a single-member household for the appropriate type of housing support, as referred to in Article 1, with the coefficient (ka), calculated by the formula to equal one plus "O" times 0.7 plus "D" times 0.5, where one person exercising the rights to residential support is zero or "O" is the number of household members over 14 years old and "D" numbers of children up to 14 years old. For example, one person is “ka” equal to 1.0 one adult, one child “ka” equals etc. etc. I wish anyone could do this again. The applicant, this law, the present Deputy Prime Minister, any of the colleagues who all-outdefy this law. This isn't the place in the law. This is for a sublegal act, for a rulebook or something, and this is what social work centres should do. There's no record of who enforces this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12187	Thank you, colleague Zivkovic. The amendment was submitted to Article 91 by the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the Minister, Professor Zorana Mihajlovic, does she accept the proposed amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12188	I'll take it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12189	I find that the amendment becomes an integral part of the law. On Section 3, the name above members 92 and the 92nd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 92 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Aleksandar Stevanovic, with a correction, and a separate MP, Branka Stamenkovic, submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of members 93rd and Article 93th, MP Gordana Comic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members of the 94th and the 94th Amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic together submitted the amendment to Article 94. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12190	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have already set the example that there is no reason to give someone, as a type of housing support, a non-profit lease that has a household income of 180,000 dinars, and this is a possible situation in Belgrade in urban municipalities, because it is 1.2 coefficient in terms of salary or average salary in those territories. Therefore, you now suggest that, if that income is increased, for example, From 180 to 190.000, he continues to exercise the right to a non-profit lease that is slightly increasing to him. So it will still be able to pay 200 euros in the territory of the municipality of Stari Grad or Vračar, whose rent is worth 1,000 euros. What kind of people are they gonna be? It'll be some privileged people, and that means those designated by the SNS. We suggest that, if that income is increased over that maximum amount, the right to a non-profit apartment is automatically lost, and there is no need to continue to allow this type of housing support.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12191	Thank you. Member of the 94th Amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12192	Thank you. I'm worried about exactly the same thing that bothers my colleague Konstantinovic. So we have a non-profit lease, and then it's said they have the right of persons whose income is monthly lower than that and that amount, and then in this article 94, all of a sudden it's said -- if such an apartment is accidentally issued under these criteria to a family, but then, over time, that family is getting along, thank God, its revenues are increasing, and they no longer meet the criteria for this non-profit lease, they can still stay in the same apartment, by increasing it by some coefficient now. My question for the minister is – how will it increase, what category is it now? It's not a category of non-profit lease. Is that a profit lease? Is that at market prices? If it is not at market prices, then it is my question – and why is it not at market prices? If it is at market prices, then my question is – why not break up that lease on non-profit lease, that contract, so a person should look for an apartment on the market at a market price, and we should keep the housing fund units of local self-government for those people who really need housing support? Please answer this question. So are these prices marketable when they jump or are not market prices? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12193	On behalf of members of the 95th and the 95th Amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 95th amendment. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12194	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is now allowed to subsidise the rent of the apartment, but not the rents that are at some market value, but the subsidisation of that non-profit rent for renting the apartment. So you've already given a kind of housing support, you've given a non-profit rent, and now you're subsidizing it. We find this kind of support for the subsidisation of a non-profit lease unnecessary. It's okay to subsidize the part that goes over a non-profit lease, because a non-profit lease is already housing support and we suggest that it be changed. So, that subsidisation goes to the height of a non-profit lease.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12195	Thank you. National MPs Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojičić, Maja Vidinović, Goran Jesic, Balša Božović, Natasa Vukković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic and Veroljub Stevanović submitted to the 95th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) In the same text, Members of the 96th and the 96th Amendment, MP Gordana Komic and MP Branka Stamenkovic, submitted to the same text. The word is by MP Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12196	Thank you. Article 96 provides, now goes a step further, that housing support doesn't have to be just a non-profit lease, so then I completely illogical "non-profit purchase", but now in article 96 you can assign a family house or an apartment to someone and now there's something, it's being built up, it's supposed to be a priority type of housing support in rural areas, and nowhere is said to be exclusive. I know there's a lot of country houses that are abandoned, that it's a big housing fund with which we don't know what we're going to do, but please, assign it to "g" people, I really don't understand how it's in the interest of any unit of local self-government. You're gonna have a crisis, we're having a migrant crisis, we've got nowhere to put people. It will be, far away, but there have been natural disasters, earthquakes, which we're going to need that housing fund. I realize that this should somehow be maintained in the meantime, but let's make a plan for such houses to be maintained through some program, not just to be assigned to "g" and to impoverish the housing fund of local self-government units. In that sense, I have suggested that you completely delete this member and completely erase the opportunity to give people public property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12197	The 96th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of members 97th and Article 97th of the amendment, MP Gordana Komic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 97 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Branka Stamenkovic and the separate MP Aleksandar Stevanovic, submitted with a correction. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojičić, Maja Vidinović, Goran Jesic, Balša Bozovic, Natasa Vukkovic, Tomislav Žigmanov, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic and Veroljub Stevanović submitted to the amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of members 98th and Article 98th of the amendment, MP Gordana Komic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 98th of the amendment, with correction, MP Aleksandar Stevanovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostic, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić, Marija Janjušević, Zoran Radojić and Dr. Dragan Vesović submitted the amendment together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of members of the 99th and of the 99th Amendment, in the same text, MP Gordana Komic and MP Branka Stamenkovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 99th Amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostic, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić, Marija Janjušević, Zoran Radojić and Dr. Dragan Vesovic together submitted to the 99th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is given by the MP Marija Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12198	Just for a little while. We asked that the words "republic level" be replaced by the words: "the level of the local self-government unit that assigns an apartment or a family house". The proposed amendment establishes fairer criteria for the assignment of an apartment or a family home, given that the aim of the housing support institute is not to enrich, but to help socially endangered persons. So we think the amendment should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12199	Thank you. On behalf of the 100th member and member of the 100th amendment, MP Gordana Komic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 100 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostic, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić, Marija Janjušević, Zoran Radojić and Dr. Dragan Vesovic together submitted to the 100th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of members 101 and member of the 101st amendment, Parliament member Gordana Comic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 101 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Branka Stamenkovic and the separate MP Aleksandar Stevanovic, submitted with a correction. Does anyone want a word? (No) The word has a National MP, Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12200	Thank you. Article 101 sets out criteria for housing support in the form of allocations to help a person improve housing conditions, i.e. If he lives in a house that doesn't have a toilet or no heating, then the municipality can, or the local self-government unit, help with the means to fit that living space, improve housing conditions. And it's all right, but then Article 3 says – exclusively from the attitude of the 1st member, the user of this type of housing support, can also be the owner of the apartment, regardless of the amount of income, if part of the living space is issued in the lease of a person who needs housing support. So, I can start building a house and doing rough work, and I can do internal work on the bottom floor, and I can give one piece of someone in the form of housing support as a non-profit lease, and then I qualify to do the next three floors practically by subsidising the local self-government unit to do it. In an explanation of why my amendment was rejected, it has been said that this is how people want to be motivated to betray people who need to support their own private apartments on a non-profit lease. That's not gonna happen. That's what no privateer will do if he doesn't see any interest in it, and I think what I just described earlier is a real interest that people will see and there's a lot of opportunities for abuse here. That's why I'm proposing to delete this attitude, and I'm very unhappy that it's not accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12201	Thank you. At the title above Article 102 and Article 102 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People, Gordana Comic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostic, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić, Marija Janjušević, Zoran Radojić and Dr. Dragan Vesović submitted the amendment to Article 102. The word is given by the MP Marija Janjušević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12202	We asked attitude 1. To delete, this part of the land, in its property, as well as attitude 3. If previously with the owner of the land properly regulates the status of the land, necessary for the law of his family home. And in several subsequent amendments, we have sought appropriate changes, because the proposer of this amendment leaves the point of view of the law of property law, Article 24, respectively, on the rules of construction on other people's land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12203	Thank you. On Article 102, the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 102, the amendment was submitted by National MP Branka Stamenkovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of members 103 and Article 103 of the amendment, MP Gordana Komic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Section IV, the name above Article 104 and Article 104 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Komic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of members 105 and Article 105 of the amendment, MP Gordana Komic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 105th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members of the 106th and the 106th Amendment, Parliament member Gordana Komic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojičić, Maja Vidinović, Goran Jesic, Balša Bozovic, Natasa Vukkovic, Tomislav Žigmanov, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic and Veroljub Stevanović submitted to the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12204	Article 106 defines the criteria for determining the order of the award of housing support. Our amendment is very simple. Our proposal is to add, in Article 106, in the introductory phrase, the words “persons without the right apartment ” to“ whether they are young couples. ” So we wanted to introduce another additional criteria for the championship and the need to assign apartments. We believe that it is necessary when establishing the order of the housing championship, in addition to the housing status championship, a person without an apartment, a person without a suitable apartment, young couples are added to help young people start a family and raise the nationality of the Republic of Serbia. We don't have a lot of system solutions to help young people who are mass abandoning, unfortunately, our country. It is estimated that at this moment and some 36 to 50,000 people, which is an extremely big problem, is the biggest problem for Serbia at the moment. I think we need to find space everywhere to help in this sense, and I don't see any reason not to accept such an additional criterion that would give space and advantage, precisely, to these young people who need to base their families and start their future in Serbia, not by looking for their talents and what was invested in them, constantly placing their lives somewhere else. Life exists in Serbia, and it is up to us to try to help them.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12205	Thank you. National MPs Nenad Canak, Mr Goran Cabradi, Marinika Tepic, Nada Lazic and Olena Papuga submitted to the 106th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Constantinović and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 106th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the title above the 107th and the 107th amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of members 108th and Article 108th of the amendment, MP Gordana Komic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Section V, the name above Article 109 and Article 109 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Komic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Branka Stamenkovic submitted to Article 109 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the amendment 109. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12206	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think this is an important amendment. It amends the bill that reads – that the acquisition, management and lease of apartments intended for residential support, management and organisation of apartments with the possibility of acquiring property through purchase under non-profit conditions, as well as the implementation of housing support programmes, can carry out non-profit housing organisations. I don't know what nonprofit housing is. I don't know that there are these non-profit housing organizations, and I don't know when they're going to be founded and in what territory. But what's safe and what we're proposing with the amendment, which is that it's done by the city's competent, or municipal administration. We allow this amendment to allow the local self-government unit to register such a non-profit organisation, or to conclude a contract with it and then determine whether or not to trust the part after them. What is essential is that by obtaining, managing and renting apartments, the local self-government unit, which it will continue to empower for some part, then they should decide for themselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12207	National MPs Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojičić, Maja Vidinović, Goran Jesic, Balša Bozovic, Natasa Vukković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic and Veroljub Stevanović submitted to the amendment. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12208	So here we heard what Article 109 is talking about. - a non-profit housing organisation. Here, I'll take one case, and I'd like to hear Mrs. Minister's reply, a third position, says – the excess income over expenditures that the housing agency is carrying out during the business year, must, in general, be directed towards further acquisition, construction, reconstruction, maintenance of apartments, in its own local self-government, which is paid in non-profit lease. We have tried to intervene with our amendment, where we have said that attitudes 7 and 8 change and vote – unless the government has established a housing agency in the local self-government unit, the jobs of the 5th member's position, are carried out by the competent municipal, or city administration. In the event that the government has not established a housing agency in the local self-government unit, or on the territory of its local authority, it has a registered non-profit housing organisation. So we have some concrete examples. Many local self-governments had their own agencies and agencies had serious financial support from institutions and did their job well. Here, we have an example of the housing agency, where this surplus of funds that was intended to be built to secure a social housing has been transferred to the budget. I would ask you to check how these funds were transferred to the budget, is that done in the prescribed legal manner? And what does that even mean for, here in this case, the citizens of Nis who had lost their own solution, and that was possible because it's really high funds, enough to make some 50 housing units? This may be the most direct question about this solution, because we are making new proposals without it being applied, or the possibility that existing housing agencies in the past...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12209	Thank you. On behalf of members 110th and Article 110th of the amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 110 of the amendment, National MP Branka Stamenkovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of members 111 and Article 111 of the amendment, MP Gordana Komic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) It was submitted to Article 111 of the amendment by National MP Branka Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Chapter VII of Section 1, the name above Articles 112 and Article 112 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People, Gordana Comic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic to Article 112. Does anyone want a word? (No) It was submitted to Article 112 of the amendment by National MP Branka Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of members 113 and Article 113 of the amendment, MP Gordana Komic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic to Article 113. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 113 of the amendment, National MP Branka Stamenkovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of members 114 and Article 114 of the amendment, MP Gordana Komic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 114 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Branka Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of members 115 and Article 115 of the amendment, MP Gordana Komic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 115 of the amendment, National MP Branka Stamenkovic submitted. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a national MP, Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12210	Thank you. A solemn moment, so I decided to stand up if my voice didn't betray me because of hunger. Of the 33 amendments I have tabled to this bill, four have been adopted by the motion. Of those four three, which would be said in the congregation jargon, the amendment of the hygiene nature, i.e. Correcting technical, spelling and similar mistakes since we obviously don't have enough money to hire lecturers in the ministry and the government. It's not a problem for me to do a lecturer's job with the job of a National MP, because in the laws I found structures of a type – a centre for the control of the poisoning of the Republic and it's not right. However, this fourth accepted amendment to Article 115 is a proposal to introduce transparency in it, that units of local self-government undertake that once they adopt a strategy and action plans on housing policy, they must do so immediately after they are adopted to publish on their internet presentations. I assume he's the promoter, i.e. The ministry and government have realised that these will make it easier for them to control the way local self-government units implement housing strategies and bring them in. Even now, if we went one step further, and all they did was post on the Internet presentations, that citizens could also easily check and track them, where we would end up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12211	Thank you. On Section 2 above Article 116 and Article 116 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Comic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of members 117 and Article 117 of the amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of members 118 and Article 118, the amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Komic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 118 of the amendment, National MP Branko Stamenkovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Constantinović and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On section 3 the name above the article 119 and the article 119th amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Komic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic submitted the amendment to article 119. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojičić, Maja Vidinović, Goran Jesic, Balša Bozovic, Natasa Vučković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic and Veroljub Stevanović submitted the amendment together. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12212	Thank you, Vice President. Madam Minister, you're welcome to submit the amendment and to help you improve the law. This amendment was aimed at making it easier for you to select members of the housing council, since you first proposed to be presidents of civil society and experts in the area of housing without reason and without further clarification on the spell proposal they come here. We've had all the choices, all the collective bodies, and bodies in general, where there are such provisions we've had trouble seeing who these NGOs are, who these representatives of civil society are, and therefore we've proposed that both of those categories of members of the housing council be on the proposal of the competent ministry, or your ministry. By accepting this amendment, by accepting an amendment that is so cosmetical, that, with the call for the household of residents and the agenda of that assembly, you have not corrected the fatal shortcomings of this law, which consist of allowing managers, professional managers and forced managers to make decisions that bind all tenants without the consent of those tenants. They don't change the fact that you're committing injustice to protected residents, which is the next part of the law that we come up with. They don't change the fact that you're imposing new imposes on the tenants, that you're pushing them to costs that they can no longer finance and don't change the fact that you've given one bad bill, and that you only accept those amendments that are cosmetics, which are aimed at making your job easier, and none of what you've done to protect the citizens, so it doesn't change the fact that we won't support the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12213	I would like to thank my colleague Jerkov. On behalf of the above member 120th and member of the 120th amendment, MP Gordana Komic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the above member 121 and member of the 121st Amendment, the People's MP Gordana Komic submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12214	Article 121 has the jurisdiction of the local self-government unit. At nine points in the first position, it tells of what all local self-government units are doing, since the adoption of a local housing strategy, through budget planning for its implementation to two points that are extremely controversial. Point 7 says – establish a non-profit housing organisation or implement a local housing strategy. Local self-government is established by a non-profit housing organization. It will be the day we see it in Serbia's application. I understand what your intention is, but this is simply inadmissible. In particular, point 9 is disputed – it helps to realise energy services in the housing sector. That's where I understand what you wanted. So it's not about communal energy supply, it's probably about energy efficiency and it's never enough money to do it or something else. Since the realisation of energy services in the housing sector of local self-government units can only work by supplying energy or can work when and if we come to programs that will offer citizens the means to isolate, to change windows, doors, for anything that implies that we are closer to our own assumed obligations of energy efficient housing. This member for at least two reasons will not be applicable and should therefore be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12215	Thank you. National MP Branka Stamenkovic submitted to Article 121 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Chapter VIII, the name above Article 122 and Article 122 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People Gordana Komic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12216	Rubrum inspection speaks of who is doing the supervisory implementation of this law and regulations based on it passed. The inspection is said to be carried out by the competent ministry through an inspector within the scope of the law established, and the AP through the construction inspection and local self-government units, through the municipal construction inspection and talks about the inspector's responsibilities. What's the reason why I'm asking you to delete this member as well as others is that in one case only the inspector is mentioned as a person of official duty. In members who have lost the answer to the application for the registration of the household, i.e. the administrator or the legal person or under official duty. So there's no mention of the inspector having that kind of official duty anymore. The disputed preliminary position, he says - on the conduct of the rights and obligations of the Republic's inspector for municipal activities and construction inspectors not governed by this law - is subject to the law governing inspection supervision. That's the normative optimism. And who else would apply? It is not possible to apply the Traffic Act or the Environmental Protection Act. It is only possible to apply a law that normally defines the jurisdiction of inspectors and that normative optimism will produce enormous problems for inspectors in application, or in supervision and only the ministry when it takes a year or a period of three or six months to deliver reports on how the application of these laws is going, phase by the members we need to see applied in the months ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12217	Thank you. On behalf of the above member 123 and member 123, the amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People, Gordana Comic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the above members of 124 and Article 124 of the amendment, the People's MP Gordana Komic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostic, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić, Marija Janjušević, Zoran Radojić and Dr. Dragan Vesović. The word is a folk letter by Marija Janjušević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12218	Thank you. This member deals with inspection tasks, more specifically all the rights and obligations of the municipal inspector. We asked to delete the views - The Communist Inspector is checking whether the housing community has registered, or selected and registered the manager in accordance with the new law and to check whether a trust agreement has been concluded between the residential community and the organizer, professional management, in accordance with Article 56 of this Act. You say the amendment is not accepted, given that the rights and obligations of municipal inspectors are in line with the provisions of other special laws governing inspection supervision, as well as other provisions of this bill. We have a legislator, we have a manager, forced or voluntary, anyway, we have a communal inspector, and around the corner are communal police officers, bailiffs, and who we're still loading on the back of the citizens. I can only suggest that when this amendment has not already been accepted, another position is added – that the municipal inspector is checking and that the residents are members of the SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12219	National MPs Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojičić, Maja Vidinović, Goran Jesic, Balša Bozovic, Natasa Vučković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic and Veroljub Stevanović submitted the amendment to Article 124. The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12220	Thank you. We again suggest that these competencies of the municipal inspector tear, i.e. to delete the part in which it is said to take other actions related to inspection supervision in order to determine the facts. We're interested in how he can determine the actual state of affairs, say, in someone's apartment, unless he has permission to enter that apartment. He can enter this apartment on the basis of our Constitution only with a court order and no other way, and we are afraid that you have either deliberately or accidentally overlooked it, since we do not know in any way how a municipal inspector or anyone else can determine the facts of someone's private apartment. Since both tenants and administrators and professional managers, forced administrators have many obligations imposed by this law, and he needs to check whether they meet all these obligations. Among them is the famous reporting of tenants to an administrator who is a member of the Serbian Progressive Party, etc. We are interested in whether, then, a municipal inspector can determine whether or not someone has a tenant and thus determines the actual situation, and it is unclear what other actions might be. What can this man do to determine the actual situation of someone's private apartment? This is just another of the things that we worry about in this law and that we are confident that it is deeply intruding into the privacy of citizens, into the privacy of their property, and I believe that the amendment should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12221	On behalf of the 125th member and member of the 125th amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostic, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić, Marija Janjušević, Zoran Radojić and Dr. Dragan Vesović together submitted to the 125th amendment. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12222	And this amendment is in line with our overall opinion on this law, that is, with all the interventions we wanted to achieve by writing amendments to this law. We oppose the organisation of professional management and forced administrations in our buildings. The organisation of professional management is an additional unnecessary cost on the burden of Serbian citizens, because we do not need any mediator between the residential community and the professional manager. It's cheaper for citizens, we prevent party monopoly and prevent abuses in this way and I absolutely don't see, there are many professions that are organised in that way, I don't see why we shouldn't do this matter, where the legislator's intention was good, we did it the same way. Also, forced administrations are something that is inadmissible. So, I would not like to be the first one, and I would not allow anyone in my private property, in my private possession, to endanger both my privacy and my right to live by imposing some natural administrators that determine the unit of local self-government and which at the same time prescribes the amount of compensation for one such person. I think it's inadmissible and it's one big scandal. I repeat, the disorder of this matter is not that we don't want to edit our buildings, we don't want to edit the objects we live in, but it's only the reason we don't have the funds. There is no money in the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to carry out such orders and these ideas by the legislator, and we cannot afford it. Please, don't punish Serbian citizens for having 26 very difficult years, which we don't have jobs, which if we have jobs we're not adequately paid for these jobs and we're not able to impose everything and the obligations you prescribe, so I'm calling for the forced administration and the organizer of professional management to be expelled. This amendment is in line with that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12223	On behalf of members 126 and Article 126 of the amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of members 127th and Article 127th of the amendment, the People's MP Gordana Komic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the above member 128th and member 128th Amendment, the People's MP Gordana Komic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Nenad Canak, Mr Goran Cabradi, Marinika Tepic, Nada Lazic and Olena Papuga. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the above member 129th and member of the 129th Amendment, the People's MP Gordana Komic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 129 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title above the 130th and the 130th Amendment, the People's MP Gordana Komic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of members 131 and Article 131 of the amendment, the People's MP Gordana Komic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 9th floor of Article 132 and Article 132 of the amendment, MP Gordana Komic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 132 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostic, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić, Marija Janjušević, Zoran Radojčić and Dr. Dragan Vesović. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12224	In addition to the new financial commitments and new difficulties that you make to the lives of Serbian citizens, you are introducing certain penalties here in article 132. Look at the height of these fines - from five to 150 thousand dinars will be punished by the owner of a special piece, which is an extremely high fine and I do not see an excuse for such an intention by the legislator, so we believe that there is a need to replace the significantly lighter penalties. If you want to punish people so much, is there any intention of you taking away their apartments? Look, if you have all kinds of obligations that you've put in place, so you've credited them, and you've finally punished them somewhere, who's going to pay for it, gentlemen? So who's going to pay you from five to 150 thousand dinars? It's really an extremely high punishment. I think it would be more realistic and would also respect the financial opportunities for Serbian citizens to be less punished. Also, the fines prescribed from 500,000 to 2 million dinars are replaced by 50,000 to millions of dinars for residential communities. I sincerely hope that the goal of these penalties isn't to leave someone without property, because then what about the people we've taken away, they don't have the means to exist, they've lost their place of residence? Where are we going with them? It is then an additional burden and cost to the state, so I simply hope that the legislator's intention was not to rob us completely and impoverish us, because how else do you interpret such penalties on one of these laws? I repeat, everything would be arranged in our buildings and people would invest and allocate funds and we would have energy-efficient buildings and everyone would benefit from people being able to afford it. Since they can't afford it, let's punish them. Why don't we punish them for being poor? Is that your intention? So, you don't have the funds, you don't have the job, fine, now the state is going to punish you for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12225	The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 132 of the amendment, the People's MP, Alexander Chabrai, submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Alexander Chabrai. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12226	Thank you. Just to take the opportunity to say, since there were some objections to our amendments yesterday, so I said how many we write and we expose them at all, I'd say, in difficult conditions and everything goes kind of on his neck, on his nose, and on his quick hand, and all of this is adopted and passed and after the people of the hooks because he didn't even know what he was doing. I had a very difficult choice at the moment – whether I should attend the Committee on Culture, which had just begun at 15.00 hours, and was convened this morning at 11.00 p.m., otherwise, by the rules should all be convened and the materials delivered, or if I were to come here to explain this amendment that required the erasure of this point, because, as my colleague Nogo said, you are introducing dragon sentences here for people who are already poor. Namely, these are two sides of the medal of this law. They're both bad. One is that there will be an obvious party employment that is being prepared through this law and the imposition of these managers that will be necessary, and the other side is this hitting on the pocket, this hack and this poverty anyway of poor people who simply can't handle these charges. Why do we need these dragon sentences in these cases? I have suggested eradicating point 7) because they are not well explained, which I have explained by one of the earlier amendments, they are not precisely stated the conditions under which the owner of a separate part of the building or apartment must allow the use or passage through his apartment and now, in those not clear enough conditions, he, for example, rejects it, then let's say he is cut off by a fine of 150 thousand dinars. Please, what does that look like? I think one of the purposes of this law is simply hitting the pocket of poor citizens anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12227	Thank you. On behalf of members of the 133rd and member of the 133rd Amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12228	Thank you. A violation of the housing community. This member, in his first position, which has five points, defines what fines, ranging from 50,000 to 2 million, will be fined for a violation of the residential community. I would very much like to have someone here working in court for a misdemeanor who will explain to me how the housing community will be punished? What's the procedure for punishing the housing community? Point 1) Where the housing community is to be punished – if, after the expiry of the time limit prescribed by the inspector, no entry into the register of residential communities is made, or does not register the manager of the residential community, in accordance with Article 40. How did the inspector come to know that there is a residential community that is not registered in the register, and how would he give the housing community a solution to the punishment? Who's paying that fine? The housing community, all the tenants? How do you pay the fine and collect the money from the housing community? When you look at all the points then you see that as a last resort, you add that a violation of Article 1 of this article is punishable and responsible person in a legal person with a fine of between five thousand and 150 thousand, with the first point being that there is no responsible person. No, because the solution is that you got a ticket because there's no responsible person, you didn't pick a manager and you don't have a registered housing community. These are illustrations why I ask that such members be deleted - inapplicable. They're completely inapplicable. It will not be imposed, under this Article 133, any chargeable criminal penalty, nor will there be anyone to execute it, nor will there be a basis for you to raise the money that has been fined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12229	Thank you, colleague Komic. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojičić, Maja Vidinović, Goran Jesic, Balša Bozovic, Natasa Vukković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic and Veroljub Stevanović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 133rd Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, mg Ivan Kostic, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić, Marija Janjušević, Zoran Radojić and Dr. Dragan Vesović. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12230	Dear citizens of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, with this law, intends that your buildings, which are now established and registered as residential communities, be punished by fines of up to two million dinars. Who's gonna pay those fines? Well, you will pay all of you living in those residential communities, the proportional part that relates to your share in that residential community. If we still have a situation that will punish you as owners of a special part of the building, you can collect one fine, for example, my building that has 12 apartments, so if all of this were to be distributed in some case and over 300,000 dinars per unit, it can be said, in maximum, if it is threatened. Who's going to finance it? Who's going to finance it? I repeat again, it's a good thing we have to live in settled conditions, but imagine, for example, a hypothetical situation, some older people who have an apartment on Vracar, or in Old Town, live off a pension that absolutely doesn't satisfy a minimum existential minimum, barely put an end to the end, and they have to sort out their facade, which is a beautiful building, a beautiful façade, it's just completely down, it's failed because it hasn't been invested in it for decades. And they are one of those, according to the law, poor owners, the ministry that now wants those poor owners, the government of the Republic of Serbia to punish for its lack of property. Well, it's not those people's fault because they were very difficult 26 years old. It's not their fault that pensions are insufficient enough, reduced by this government's regulation. So you took 20 billion dinars from them, and now you expect them to finance and fix it. Well, that's tens of thousands of euros per entrance, to get everything in order, to get the entrance, to fix the facade, to introduce isolation. How do you finance it? What do you need, a credit card? And if they don't want to be in credit, fine, let's punish them. Anyway, we're gonna get them to move out of town and go somewhere on the periphery, because it's really the intention of a law like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12231	To Article 133. The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the above members of 134th and Article 134th of the amendment, the People's MP Gordana Komic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostic, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić, Marija Janjušević, Zoran Radojić and Dr. Dragan Vesović. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12232	If we want to come out in favour of the citizens of Serbia and if we are not meant to provide this law with party employment and machination and manipulation that possibly the SNS could do through these institutes, then we will throw out the organizer of professional governance. Thus, this member must be reduced and changed. The organizer of professional management, I repeat again, is absolutely unnecessary in this one law, because there are many professions that are organized exclusively as individuals. Why don't we be professional managers too? There's no need for SNS to have a monopoly on one of these institutions. Also, there is no economic justification for additional burden on Serbian citizens. Therefore, one such member of the law cannot remain. I call on the legislator, if his goal is to regulate housing relations and to regulate, above all, the rights of the citizens of their own, who have voted in large numbers and in favour of them, then let him amend one of these laws. I also think, once again, there is no need, when you are already imposing such burdens, when you are already burdening the budgets of the poor citizens, who can no longer finance everything, from a great deal of taxes to a great deal of excise duties, to the abnormal burdens that exist only in Serbia, to impose obligations on them and by this law, and on the other hand threaten them with serious prescribed penalties, prescribed penalties for natural persons, owners of apartments from five to 150 thousand dinars, to the residential community from 50,000 to two million dinars. And what are living communities? Well, it's again a collection of these physical owners of certain parts of the building itself. So I don't see what the purpose of a law like this is. Surely the purpose of the law isn't to draw money that isn't there. They don't have any money. If people had that money, they'd already invest in their own buildings. And it's in my interest to make the building more energy efficient, to spend less money on heating and cooling, to make it more isolated. If I could afford it, I'd do it in my building. But from where, gentlemen of progressors? Well, this isn't Switzerland. We have Serbian salaries, we have no German salaries. But apparently Angela Merkel hits someone's head a lot.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12233	The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic to Article 134. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 134th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Constantinović and Zdravko Stankovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12234	It's a good thing this amendment was accepted. We have extended the criminal responsibility of the organisation or organizer of professional management and predicted an offence if a person who does not meet the conditions laid down in Article 52 of the Law is engaged, which regulates the acquisition of a professional manager's license. So you can't happen to be for so-called. A professional manager accidentally hires someone who doesn't have a license as a professional manager and needs to be sanctioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12235	On behalf of members 135 and member of the 135th Amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12236	Rubrum – a violation of the responsible person in the local self-government unit and why it needs to be deleted. In its sole position, Article 135 says - a fine of 5,000 to 150,000 dinars will punish the person responsible for the offence in the local self-government unit if he does not submit a report with data and information to the ministry responsible for housing affairs in accordance with Article 115(3) of Article 121(2) of this Act. Why does he need to be deleted? Because it will be paid from the local self-government budget. Like the ministry when the minister is penalised for, say, failing to release a request from the trustee for information of public importance, the fine is paid from the Republika Srpska budget. How will you raise efficiency and really make registries, since they are, therefore, responsible person in the local self-government unit, or who is responsible for the registrator, who is obliged to deliver data reports and information to the ministry, how will you speed it up? We've had several discussions about what criminal punishment on public affairs is about if all criminal penalties will be paid out of the budget. That means you're paying off all the citizens' money again. He doesn't pay anyone out of his pocket, except when it comes to criminal punishment given in traffic. Then if the pay's on the spot or I don't know, if the pay's on the post or in the bank, then the pay's out of his pocket. This way you'll have the same cases as we've all had critical remarks so far in laws, where the responsible person is prescribed criminal punishment and very often the responsible persons of different levels of government have a clear interest in paying the fines of 100,000, 50,000. We have a few illustrations about how easily you go deaf about the request and pay the criminal penalty.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12237	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic to Article 135. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic together submitted an amendment suggesting that new members of 135a be added after article 135a. and 135b. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12238	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, representatives of the ministry, we add behind Article 135 where you speak of a violation of a responsible person in a local self-government unit, we suggest that two other members be introduced, which is a violation of the building manager and a violation of the professional manager of the building. We have made great commitments and is rightly expected from a professional manager who has been paid to carry out his duties responsibly. If he does not carry out his obligations under this law, he must be punished. You have responded to this amendment, why you reject it, stated that the amendment is not accepted because the bill promoter considers that the intended fines are covered by the manager and professional manager of the building. That's just not true. After this answer, we have analyzed all members, and Articles 132, 133, 134 and 135, no mention of the vice responsibility of the warden or professional manager, and we believe that we should. That's why we're proposing that a fine of 10,000 to 500,000 dinars be fined by a professional manager. Does this mean that it is known in advance that these professional managers will be from individual political parties and that they do not have to do their job responsibly because there is no penalty threatened unless they are doing their job responsibly? I don't see any reason why this amendment wouldn't have been adopted and why they wouldn't have added criminal responsibility to a professional manager. We give him money, we pay him, it's clear what he needs to do, so let him do it in accordance with the law. If it doesn't work, it has to be punished.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12239	Thank you. On chapter 10, the name above the 136th and Article 136th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12240	It's a deadline for the adoption of sublegal acts. In its two positions, Article 136 obliges the ministry, firstly, that the competent authority will adopt the sublegal acts prescribed by this law within six months of the date of entry into force of this law and, secondly, a national housing strategy will be adopted within 12 months of the date of entry into force of this law. This means that on 30 June 2017 we need to have insight into all sublaws, and 31 December 2017 and national housing strategy. My proposal before 2013, when we adopted the Resolution on the Law of the Republic of Serbia, and every time I had contact with the bill, it was that all proposals for sublegal acts were adopted together with the bill. It's not a whim of someone who's firmly adhered to the rule of law. That's not even the attitude I was in when I was the government or the opposition that was changing. That's good for executive power. It's good for all of us and if we had that now, then you, as you rightly accepted one number of amendments, if any of these apply and changed to the proposed sublegal act, would have a sublegal act with the date of entry into force of this law. Why do we have this tendency to postpone the deadlines for the adoption of sublegal acts? Because we're not going to apply the law. It's so-called. anti-reform paradigm. It's a means, a mechanism. You have no guilt here, Minister, no guilt or associates. It's simply a narrative of a society that resists change.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12241	Thank you. On behalf of members 137 and Article 137, the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Comic. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12242	This member – crossing a residential building into a residential community should solve at least two problems. The first has already been mentioned here in the debate, the famous Article 4. The accounting law, and the second is to define what the housing community is before entering into the process of trying to apply this law, which, unfortunately, will not be applied under all parameters. The first point is said – on the day of entry into force of this law, a residential building in which at least two persons have the right to property in two separate works in that apartment building becomes a residential community and acquires the property of a legal person in accordance with this law. This should be deleted. It's like writing someone who doesn't know what family housing is in Serbia. No people, two brothers, a father... That's how it's going to be interpreted. I explain to you that I know your intentions, but it doesn't say that here, and I know the situation in local self-government, and I know the inspector, I know the level of knowledge. It's not my fault, nor am I running away from my guilt and responsibility. You'll be crucified. Until we understand that I want to reduce the problems that will arise by not applying the law, Drina and Danube will pass, and Morava and Sava. So don't put it in two special pieces. In the second position, you say - a residential community educated in accordance with the position of the 1st member is a legal follower of a residential building in the business created according to the regulations on the maintenance of a residential building that was valid until the date of entry into force of this law. That means that you mean that two separate works are a residential building. Who's going to challenge you? Who will challenge you that two brothers who have one roof, four-wheel, two separate entrances that it's not a residential building?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12243	Thank you. On behalf of members 138 and member of the 138th Amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12244	Registers and records. Given that in previous members of the law we have established the obligation to register, these transitional and final provisions of course establish the obligation of time limits, so it says in the first position of Article 138. – registers and unique records prescribed by this law will be established within 12 months of the date of entry into force of this law. I tried to get all of us closer in one of the conversions, make things change by measuring them first. If you want to measure something, you have to have the first measuring resource, and that's the time, so you need some work to be done. Anyone who can calculate that, does successful jobs. You have 10,000 minutes to work monthly. In an ideal case, hypothetically, gedanken experiment, that's how you do it when you want to calculate, if you spend 15 minutes in the local self-government of a man who has 10,000 minutes at his disposal, that's a number of solutions that he can issue, that's a particular job that's being set up in registration. From there comes the question – how many living communities do you expect? How much? Can you say 12 months if you expect 1,200 or expect 120,000? If you expect 120,000, how many people, us, not you, time, resources, will it take to establish a register and records? The second point is said: a congregation or council building formed in accordance with the regulations applicable until the entry into force of this law, i.e. the owner of special parts of a building in which the assembly or council of a building is not formed, shall be obliged to register the residential community in accordance with this law within six months of the start of work. So you have six months for sublaws, one year for application and another six months, two years.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12245	Thank you. On behalf of the above member 139th and member 139th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Comic. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12246	Transitional and final provisions concerning the lease of a public property for an indefinite period of time. Since that right has been acquired, then you, or in the four positions of this member, have said what will happen to the lease of a public property that is until this law is passed indefinitely. What the last point of view is – persons who acquired the right to lease indefinitely in public property, under the Law on housing from 1992 to 2005, continue to pay the lease under conditions concluded by the lease agreement until the expiry of two years from the date of entry into force of this law. So, you're telling these transitional and final terms that there's no contract in place indefinitely, without either proposing or any of us being party to the conclusion of the contract. I know it can be done by law, as a law can establish a law, so by law you can abolish the law. The question is what do you do well when you have the right to establish a law or what you do well to do when you have a right by law, or in this case you are time-cutting it from leases indefinitely to two years from the date of entry into force of this law. In addition, this is a provision that implies complete separation from sublegal acts, from any other member who requires a certain amount of time in the months ahead of us. So, when the law comes into force for eight days, if we don't change that by voting, from the day of publication in the "Official Messenger" then the tenants, or the people who have rented an apartment in public property, have two years at their disposal. It's important that we inform people about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12247	National MPs Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojičić, Maja Vidinović, Goran Jesic, Balša Bozovic, Natasa Vučković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic and Veroljub Stevanović submitted the amendment together. The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12248	After you have obliged citizens to pay both professional managers and forced managers, SNS activists, after reducing the quorum, so much so that the most important decisions in the building can be made by only two or three apartments, and that only two or three residents participate in making decisions that will obligate all the people living in that building, after having even upgraded and other things, and for credit borrowing, have made it possible to find various ways for people who would object to the exemption from the vote, you are now, after having authorised forced managers and professional managers to collect information about the housing that these people should not have, you are now in transitional and final terms trying to do two, perhaps, the most critical things in this law. The first is that you tried to push us through the second time to make it possible for the officials, appointed, appointed persons, etc., to buy apartments that they got for use, under conditions that Serbian citizens are unimaginable, and I think it's still untasteful that you're doing it by trying to justify it by convincing us that it's for the cops, the victims, the dead, the wounded, and so on, their families. Secondly, at the same time you're trying to provide your officials with housing, you're going to leave thousands of people on the street with no roof over your head, it's about protected tenants you've been discriminating second time in these transitional and final provisions.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12249	I would like to thank my colleague Jerkov. On Article 139, the amendment was submitted by the National MP Sonja Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members of the 140th and member of the 140th Amendment, the People's MP Gordana Komic submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12250	These members of the law are trying to resolve the lease at a certain time of residence in their citizens, responsibilities and foundations. And in three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten... (I Nemanja Sarovic, from the site: Does it erase all problems? ) People’s MPs who earn whether to erase all problems, not all, but some very successful ones. Let's just say, it's been erased, right now, in the Rules of Procedure, that you're forbidden to throw away, but we understand that, again, the opposition associate is not that small thing. (Inemnja Sarovic, from the place: Replica. She said I was an associate of the opposition. I wouldn't know, Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12251	Comrade Komic, please return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12252	Shall I go back to the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12253	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12254	Here, the MP wants a replica because you're not doing your job. (I Nemanja Sarovic, from the post: she said I am an associate of the opposition. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12255	Col. Comic, you want to talk about the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12256	I want to work with the chairman, who treats the same opposition he likes and the opposition he doesn't like. That would be nice.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12257	If you want to talk about the amendment, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12258	Thank you. The amendment is deleted, and because the way we have established a solution here for people who are called protected tenants, is not a way to bring good, nor people who, without their own guilt and responsibility, have the status of protected residents, and hardly will be in due course of good agreement, because if they had the will to agree, there would already be one among the owners of the apartments, who also without their direct guilt and with the violation of their human rights, have protected tenants in their own space, without talking about foundations, legions and duties. In two years from today, will there be discussions in this congregation about how this member of the law has been applied? I hope so. I hope it will be phase and this is a problem that should be discussed and past the deadlines set in the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12259	I would like to thank my colleague, Komic. Comrade Sarovic, you've come forward after the amendment? (Inemnja Sarovic, from the place: Replica. You have no basis for replication. (Inemnja Sarovic, from the post: she said I was an opposition associate. But she said it more than once. I didn't notice that she was negative and that she spoke negatively about you. I didn't notice when she was talking about the opposition, that she was talking to you. (Inemnja Sarovic, from the place: Replica. You really don't have a basis for replication. (Inemnja Sarovic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) Here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12260	Mr. Milicevic, I think it is quite obvious that I had a basis for replication, that Gordana Komic mentioned my name directly, and she expressed negatively about what I am doing. I don't know why you're making me report to the Rules of Procedure. The reason for that was, I guess, the 150th amendment that Gordana Comic filed, where she says it is deleted. Gordana Comic, who, in addition to having imposed a huge number of penalties, the largest in the history of this House, which you are on your way to overstep, is well known for the criticism of the SRS MPs, who have submitted in the era of the DS dictatorial regime, is being deleted. You see, now it's been said that the amendment erases all problems, but that subsequent mind has been late for several years, as DS's ex-wise mind, that they shouldn't have formed a SNS, has been delayed by who knows how many years. Therefore, Mr. Milicevic, I invite you to respect the Rules of Procedure. You've never been among the presidents who brutally trampled him. Look on all sides and warn, when I've already heard from the minister, or the minister, or the minister, however she prefers, Mihajlović, that if she is already sitting in this room, and if she is already representing the Government, then it is hers to listen to the MPs. It is not enough to be present and all the time to play on a laptop or to do who knows what, to have casual conversations alone, to have casual conversations and to chat with associates, but to listen to MPs and to respond to their remarks.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12261	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. I think you were obliged to say at the outset which member of the Rules of Procedure you called. Nemanja Sarovic, from the place: On 107.) To Article 107. You didn't say, but I thank you anyway. You didn't even say in the end. I ask you a question do you want the National Assembly in the voting day to be heard about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12262	Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12263	I thank my colleague Sarovic. I didn't really notice that Col. Comic was talking to you, and I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. The National Assembly in Voting Day will be told of the damage suffered by the Rules of Procedure. (Gordana Comić, from town: Replica. ) Collegine Comić, you can't get a replica. He ordered his colleague Sarovic to hurt the Rules of Procedure. At the violation of the Rules of Procedure, you know you can't get a replica. National MPs Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojičić, Maja Vidinović, Goran Jesic, Balša Božović, Natasa Vučković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic and Veroljub Stevanović submitted the amendments together. They are also in the system of co-worker Komic and co-worker Jerkov. The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12264	Thank you. This is a great injustice in this law, which we have talked a lot about, during the debate in principle. You said you were correcting the injustice of 60 years ago. It's about people you call protected tenants, although they're not exactly protected, and they're just not going to be protected from the entry into force of this law. You, then, are correcting the injustice of 60 years ago by correcting the injustice that you will do by adopting this law. They repeat what I said in the debate in principle, these people live in apartments where they live, not because they like to live in someone else's apartment, or in an apartment belonging to a charter or a foundation, but because the only people in Yugoslavia who could not buy apartments that they had been used in 1992. All other Serbian citizens were able to buy apartments they lived in in 1992, and those people who got apartments like everyone else are the only citizens in Serbia who did not have permission and were not allowed to buy apartments in which they lived. That's how they live in other people's apartments, and that's why they live in other people's apartments. They are not the most boastful rich people, who are gardening in other people's apartments in downtown Belgrade, or Novi Sad, seem to me to be the most part of Belgrade, but I think in Novi Sad, for sure, there are such apartments, I think in other cities, but these people live in other people's apartments because they couldn't buy apartments that they got, like all the other worlds. You will now, with this bill of law, raise their leases two or three times. You said yourself that some would pay...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12265	Thank you, colleague Jerkov. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Alexi, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 140th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 140 of the amendment, MP Sonja Pavlovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? The word has a national emissary Sonja Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12266	Thank you. This Article 140 is indeed one of the injustices of this law and concerns protected tenants. The proposed leases of over 200% that are defined by this law, for tenants of dwellings at a certain time in private owners' or employees' apartments, we bring these tenants into a situation that they will not be able to withstand that financial pressure at a time when wages are cut, pension cuts, primarily pensions, because they are people of over 70 years of age. The state here has to be a mother state, not a mother state, it's often mentioned, but it's really true in this situation. So, the injustice that happened before the '60s, the '70s, when people were taken away from their apartments, assigned to other people, now we're going to make it right by making a new injustice, we're going to bring so many leases that people won't be able to pay it, and after three months, we're going to put them in a position to hurt lease contracts, and lead them to their eviction, without waiting for another apartment in public property. A serious state shouldn't allow this. They don't have to suffer even protected tenants, they don't even have to suffer apartment owners, they really need to get an adequate lease. That's really where the state has to intervene. Our proposal in order for the state, conditionally speaking, to iron out this whole situation, so that no one is damaged, if the state is responsible, is really supposed to do so, is that the lease to protected tenants for the use of the apartment is accounted for in accordance with Article 32. The housing law, and the difference to the height provided for by this law that we're discussing today, is compensated by the state. So I think a serious state should really do it and show care for its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12267	Thank you. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Stefana Miladanovic submitted to the 140th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 140 of the amendment was tabled by MPplatimir Stević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 140 of the amendment, MP Snezana Paunovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? On behalf of member 141 and member of the 141st amendment, the National MP Gordana Komic submitted. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12268	Article 141 is related to Article 140 and defines the move-out procedure of the person we are just talking about, so the move-out procedure and the right to move out of the apartment in the hands of the citizens, the duties and the foundation. When the move-out procedure under Article 141 begins, it says: from an apartment in the property of citizens, responsibilities and foundations, it is initiated by the request of the owner of the apartment to be submitted to the competent authority in the local self-government unit on whose territory the apartment from which the eviction is sought is located. In addition to the requirement laid down in this Article, the request of the owner of the apartment shall be submitted under point 1 of the proof of ownership of the apartment and the lease contract if such contract is concluded or two evidence of the initiated or legally completed restitution procedure, if the apartment is in the restitution process. And this article 141 with Article 140 requires a detailed explanation of how it will apply. So, whether this eviction procedure begins two years after the entry into force of this law, or it can begin at any time, when in the hands of the owner of the apartment a solution is made to the completion of the restitution procedure, or at any time when the tenant in the lease of citizens, foundations or borrowings makes some kind of agreement with the owner of the apartment. So, all we're talking about here is the move-and-moving procedure, even in the event of a face death, if the family has the right to do so, to explain what the procedure is. But when the procedure begins, and is related to the law of two years, which of the previous member of 140 refers to tenants with a lease owned by restitutions, foundations or borrowings.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12269	Thank you. Members of the 141st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Alexic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12270	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, representatives of the ministry, member of 141st, among other things, regulates the right to move. So when it comes to the situation of someone being evicted from their apartment, the question arises whether he has the right to be moved to another apartment, in public property. You wrote here that if such a household has private property somewhere in Serbia's territory any immobility, it can also be on Zlatibor's cottage, it can also be a cottage, it can be something that is certainly not conditional on housing even though it is owned. On the other hand, it can be something that's so valuable that it can't be sold and bought in an apartment in their place of residence. I think that's where we discriminate against people who live in cities, who have no other way of solving a housing issue, they don't have the money to solve that housing issue, and they inherited a cottage somewhere where they won't have the right to move. I think this kind of discrimination needs to be corrected and that if this member stays like this, people don't have the opportunity to achieve the one that some others have, even though they don't have a habitable apartment in the place where they usually live.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12271	The 141st amendment was submitted by National MP Snezana Paunovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications submitted to Article 141 of the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I ask Professor Zorana Mihajlovic, does she accept the proposed amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12272	Yes, I accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12273	Thank you. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the law. National MP Sonja Pavlovic submitted to the 141st amendment. The word has a national emissary Sonja Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12274	Article 141 is about this legacy of any residential, possibly inhabitable unit, in any territory of the Republic of Serbia. It automatically excludes the possibility that a person can get a place to move. So it's completely wide-ranging and will lead to people being evicted, that they will no longer be in a place where they lived until then, but they will be staying somewhere else, in extremely unconditional, perhaps unconditional housing units. In that sense, our amendment was that as much as these negative effects are mitigated and that this apartment should be on the territory of local self-government where the apartment of that person to be moved is located, that it is either a suitable family household or that it is a habitable apartment in property. So, not just any apartment, not any house, not anywhere in the territory, but in a place where the face has already stayed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12275	Thank you. On behalf of members 142 and Article 142, the amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People, Gordana Comic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12276	Article 142, and with regard to the members of 141,140 and the future Article 145, defines the application for emigration. In points 1, 2, 3 and 4, the documentation to be submitted is, in other respects of the right to say, the tenant, i.e. the tenant in the owner's apartment or foundation, which says that in the second position, the eviction decision is to be made within seven days of the date of receipt of the request and the orderly documentation within three days shall be delivered to the person referred to in Article 140. It's someone who lives in an apartment that owns his own place, after a restitution in an employee's apartment or a foundation. Then he says against the decision on eviction, the owner of the apartment can appeal to the municipal council, or city council, within eight days of the day of admission of the solution. Further views shall consider only if they do not make an appeal and what kind of documentation is required to carry out the emigration. "According to the decision to determine the right to move can the appeal be made to the municipal city council within eight days of the day of receipt of the solution" is repeated as a last resort, because it implies that, upon receipt, the competent authority of the local self-government unit has definitely identified who the person entitled to move and where it is moving. I don't think the idea that's in articles 140, 141, 142, so by 145, it's really going to solve the problem of protected tenants. Because of the inapplicability and one of the ways in which the state has taken responsibility for taking away private property, and for granting housing rights, this is one of the solutions that, unfortunately, will not give me a good solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12277	Thank you. On behalf of members 143 and member of the 143rd amendment, MP Gordana Komic submitted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12278	Thank you. So I have already said that members from 140 to 145 continue to address the problems of persons living in protected, or persons living in dwellings known to the owner in foundations or in responsibilities. Article 141 defines the postponement of the implementation of the eviction and decision-making solution. When and how can a solution be delayed? The first point is said: the decision on eviction will not be executed until the judicial end of the procedure, which determines whether the conditions for the eviction of persons under Article 140 of this Act are met in a public-owned apartment referred to in Article 145. This is the move of a person who lives under the name, as it is said, by the status of a protected tenant in some of the apartments that, according to article 145, will come our turn, are scheduled to be offered to the person of residence. In essence, this delay in execution in the first two positions is in its final position and how a decision on eviction will be implemented in a total of five points. At the end of the 30 days following the date of adoption in the event of a non-appeal, after the right to an eviction solution, by the right to move, and if from the date of the adoption of the decision to determine the right to move until the decision to relocate the lease agreement is reached. So, what's he essentially doing... I'm sorry, two minutes. There was a microphone left on both amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12279	You want to go to the next one?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12280	I will, but I think you need to turn me in again.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12281	On behalf of members 144 and Article 144 of the amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. You go ahead, I'll do the math.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12282	Thank you. So, the next amendment refers to the similar application of the law. Article 144 states that issues relating to the eviction process, the establishment of the right to move and move, which are not specifically regulated by this law, are subject to the law governing the general administrative procedure. I don't see what these issues are not regulated by this law, so that you can apply the General Administrative Procedure Act to some cases of the right to move. So, it's either this member of the entire surplus, or there's something that we can't spot by reading, where it's going to be about the rights of the people who live in the apartment that owns the owner, which is the property of the employee or the foundation, so on. protected tenants, or they will refer to the rights of the owner to whom that apartment was returned in the restitution of the asset, the foundation, the legislation. So this normative optimism that has been passed on and into this part of the law that solves one terribly sensitive matter and we can say – it is for very few people compared to the total population or to the total number of housing units that are over three million, of which two and a half million people are inhabited, and 500,000 are probably empty, but it is important because individual human rights are at stake.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12283	Thank you. On behalf of members 145 and Article 145 of the amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. Do you want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12284	Thank you. So, moving apartment, that's a 145 I've mentioned so far. What are the obligations imposed in the individual positions of this member before the local self-government, i.e. the legislator who wants to solve the problem of the tenants who have been given the right to an apartment in public property, i.e. now the apartment that is owned by the restitution, or is the borrowing, or the personal owner, or the foundation? Article 145 says in its second position – the largest area of the dwelling for the move from the position of the 1st member is a 30m square, or one bedroom apartment for a single-member household which increases by another 15m square for each additional member of the family household, up to 86m square, or a four-bedroom apartment regardless of the number of members of the family household. It is also said that the person who is offered such an apartment can accept a smaller apartment than the apartment that corresponds to him and his family household, and a larger apartment can be offered for moving from the apartment that suits him and his household. In the case of a move to a larger apartment, that person shall pay a purchase price at market conditions, as opposed to the area between the relevant apartment within the meaning of this law and the area apartment above the prescribed. So, someone who had once been in a discriminatory position compared to others who had bought out so - called. social housing, is now in a kind of discriminatory position compared to what kind of approach the housing market has. There is no guilt or responsibility of this government, nor do I consider the Minister responsible for such a solution, this is one of the possible solutions. There's no government that would fight and demand that she be the one to handle this all the way. What's my point, is that the way the procedure is done is inapplicable.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12285	The Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted together to Article 145 of the amendment. Alexandra Jerkov has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12286	Thank you. You say, Madam Minister, that you haven't solved this when you care so much about protected tenants. Because we didn't want to solve it like this. Neither do you. If you think you're solving anything, you're not solving anything, you're just making a greater injustice. I'm asking you, could you handle it a little more honestly? Could these apartment owners have gotten some other compensation, not the apartments where someone lives, and someone's gonna stay on the street because they won't be able to pay those rents they're gonna have to pay? Could protected tenants have been compensated for an apartment at least roughly equal value, not an apartment of 30 square feet in Krgnaca, which would be the case with all of them? Were you able to find some kind of compromise between those two groups of people, which won't be like this at the expense of each other? This way neither of them will be compensated for having been without an apartment for 70 years, nor will these others be able to pay the rents you will impose on them, and in all likelihood, most of them will not be able to pay, indeed, thousands of people will be left on the street. Or do you tell me how, say, a retirement home will be able to pay 25, 30,000 dinars a month's rent of an apartment, with its reduced pension? If you don't see that it's not possible and if you don't see that these people won't be able to pay that rent until in 10 years they get a 30-square apartment in Krgnaca, then I don't know where you live. You obviously don't live in our country and you don't know what kind of situation the people who live in these apartments are, and who, I repeat, live in them not because they love them, but only because they couldn't buy apartments when everyone else could buy apartments. This is not how you compensate for the owners of apartments, or protected tenants, and neither of them are protected because you harm each other. And the Restitution Act says it doesn't have to come back at all costs, it has to be something of equal value.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12287	Member of the 145th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. He's not here. The 145th Amendment was jointly submitted by Goran Bogdanovic and Nenad Konstantinovic. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12288	Dear Parliament Speakers, honourable MPs, is exactly what my colleague says we are talking about the category of people who have already been discriminated against. She's being discriminated against by people who couldn't buy apartments, the only ones in this country who couldn't buy apartments. All the other apartments were bought and bought depending on how much the law prescribed at the time, mostly very cheap. So these people, even though they were out of their salary in the housing fund, didn't get apartments and didn't get a chance to buy apartments. That's what we have to keep in mind when we're passing the law. We did an intervention in article 45, we think it's bad language first to say, "The biggest area of the moving apartment is 30 square meters," and then you say, "but it's increasing by 15... “ This much, therefore, is not the largest, it is the surface of an apartment that can be increased. We've given the amendment to make it 45 square meters and to increase by the number of members of the family household by 15 square meters. Certainly, local self-government may not be able to offer a suitable apartment under these criteria, but it will be able to offer a larger apartment. If someone accepts to take this larger apartment, of course it should be made possible to buy it, of course it should be at market price, but we propose this amendment to allow for the buying-in of that difference in the squares of the wars, therefore, to be a kind of lending, where they will be allowed to buy it, because otherwise they will not have that option. People have no money to buy that difference, and there are no other apartments to be offered to them. In this way, as we propose by amendment, the situation would be resolved. Give them the opportunity, 10 years or 20 years to pay off that difference in the square.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12289	The 145th Amendment was jointly submitted by Miroslav Aleksic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Sonja Pavlovic submitted to Article 145 of the amendment. The word is by the MP Sonja Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12290	This article 145 is, in fact, a full legislator, a legislator of law inconsistencies. So first, we have a reduction in the number of family, recognised members of the family household in Article 3 of this law, where the area and structure of the apartments are to be reduced for resettlement. Then we have conflicting members of 145 and 90 who define the structures and surfaces of these apartments and they differ. According to article 145, a three-member household is to receive an apartment of 60 square metres, according to Article 90 of 56 square metres. According to article 145, it is required to receive a four-member apartment of 75 square meters, and per article of the 90th, it receives an apartment of 64 square metres. All of this, all together, means, em is not in line, em is not in line with norms and sublaws of the Law on Planning and Construction. So, these protected tenants when they get these moving apartments, the em's reduced number of members of the recognised household, and we really can't figure out what area we're going to get, is not according to the norms that are defined in the Planning and Construction Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12291	Thank you. The name above Article 146 and Article 146 of the amendment was filed by Gordana Comic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12292	In its two positions, Article 146 follows the logic that the proposer hopes to address the problem of residents who are called protected by speaking in two attitudes about what is the obligation of the unit of local self-government on whose territory is an apartment from which the move is made. So the local self-government unit, instead of being obliged to immediately discuss the legality of the solution after determining the right to move and, no later than 31 December 2026, provide an apartment to move the tenant to an indefinite time of residence in its own citizen. That's the first attitude. The second view says that the right of the housing championship is being ranked by tenants by age from the oldest to the youngest so-called tenant to exercise the right of the championship in relation to the younger one in providing the residence for the move. So how does the correction of injustice and the owners of the apartments that they are now returning to the tenants who, without their own fault, could not buy that apartment back. Someone might get an apartment in the right square and at the right location in a year, and someone in 2026. And, with the moss, this applies to the cities most to the city of Belgrade, and the moss will produce new injustices. Is there an ideal solution? No, I don't. Do I see any intrinsicity here? Yeah, and that's why I'm asking you to delete the members, because worse than not being able to correct the injustice because it's big enough that you're correcting it so that there's a new injustice. It's not worse than publicly expressing our support for the injustices we make in society.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12293	The 146th Amendment was jointly submitted by Marko Djurisic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Zdravko Stankovic. The word is Nenad Constantinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12294	Article 146 provides that the unit of local self-government whose territory has an apartment from which the move is to be carried out immediately after the right to decide on the right to move, and no later than 31 December 2026, provides an apartment to move the tenant to an undefined time of residence in his own citizens. So in 2026 – for ten years. Unfortunately, there was also a previous Law on housing of certain deadlines in which local self - administration should provide it, so it did not provide. I think the set deadline already announces that this isn't going to happen. Who lives, who dies in ten years. If those people who live in those apartments are going to welcome it, we don't know that, but I don't think they will. That's why we suggested that this deadline be shorter, that it be by the end of 2021 and that in the next five years what is planned and done happen. If you take this problem seriously, I think it's possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12295	The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has been given by the People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12296	Thank you. The fact is that many of these people will be evicted very quickly because they will not be able to pay rents that will now grow to them two or three times, i.e. rents and the fact that many of them will be left without the apartment where they live, without the roof over their heads, and that the new apartment in Krgnaca will get a 30 square apartment by 2026, because so much has given the Republic of Time to solve their housing issue in the way that the city manager on the working group has suggested that it will be absolutely unsatisfactory for them. We, first, suggest that these apartments, which they will get in exchange for the apartments they currently live in, be secured until 2021, given that many of them are at such an age that they will not wait to get new apartments, and many of them are such receiving that they will very quickly expect to be left without apartments where they live, and secondly, that the dwellings for moving are larger squares. Ideally, they would be apartments that are worth the same to those apartments from which they will be expelled, since the only ones who could not buy the apartments they lived in, but you obviously did not define yourself to solve this problem fairly. They're asking me now some citizens why we've ignored the interests of apartment owners? We didn't. We're just saying that the state needs to deprive them in another way, and not at the cost of someone losing a roof over their heads, and the whole system, as you've set it, is so unfair that the amendments can't affect him at all, and I'm sorry that you're texting, that you're not talking to the MPs, because this is the question that some people are going to be left without a roof over their heads.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12297	Thank you For the name above Article 147 and Article 147 of the amendment was submitted by Gordana Komic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12298	Article 147 of the irrevocably entitled ‘Plan and programme for housing in public property for resettlement’ defines what are the obligations of local self-government in the years when this law enters into force, so that the unit of local self-government on whose territory the dwellings used by protected tenants are obliged to forward the budget for the next calendar year to the ministry responsible for housing tasks, the proposal for a plan and programme to provide housing in public property for the relocation of persons from Article 140 who have achieved this right to the solutions and to determine the right to move. I understand that this stance is passed by the Republic Secretariat of Law, but you will generally have a problem with the application of this article, because the adoption of the budget of local self-government is subject to some laws that are independent of the House Act and I don't see a law where there is room for local self-government to negotiate with the Ministry of Finance on what it will do with its budget and on the apartments it is obliged to provide to the tenants. It is this normative optimism that I am talking about and anyone who knows how many laws there are in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia will know and with what law it is about attitude or member and by nature of things, if not Murphy's law, it will go to the harm of the users or the tenants of the protected and the owners of the apartments in which they live and to the harm of their rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12299	The 147th amendment was jointly submitted by Marko Djurisic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Zdravko Stankovic, Miroslav Aleksic and Goran Bogdanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Gordana Komic submitted to the title above members of 148th and 148th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12300	Article 148 speaks of the means of obtaining a moving apartment. So, we have a protected tenant on the territory of our municipality, we have a restitution procedure where the owner rightly seeks his property back, we have a solution and a run-off move and we need an apartment. So, how are we gonna get the money for the move-in apartment? He says it is provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia and the budget of the unit of local self-government whose territory is an apartment from which the move is carried out. One of the major problems with the adoption of the law on restitution was how to avoid increasing one obvious injustice by making a new injustice and some medium solution found in the Law on Restitution, which is in force in Serbia, that money is always an advantage. If you can't bring back land, a place, the immovableity of any kind, then you can see if you have the money and the bill to make up for the money to the former owner of his kidnapped property for any reason. It could probably be a fairer solution to this question if it had enough money. I have a lot of understanding, and I don't think there's a single government that's going to take care of this. I would like to read the views of the law that, beyond any doubt, leave all these views and members relating to the owners of dwellings in the restitution in which protected tenants live, that they will be applicable, but I do not believe that in the second view that the Republic of Serbia will provide and transfer to the local self-government unit 50% of the funds, and the local self-government unit provides the other 50% of the necessary funds for the new apartment. It can't.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12301	The name above the 149th and 149th amendment was submitted by Gordana Komic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12302	It is about rights and obligations in the use of housing in public property. The apartment in public property is said to have the right to purchase property over that apartment in accordance with the provisions of previously applicable laws. They are said as follows: they have an obligation to participate in the costs of management and regular maintenance of emergency interventions and buildings in accordance with this law, etc. and says: for the use of the apartment, they pay the rent which is calculated by multiplying the value of the property tax, the tax base for the current year with a coefficient of 0,00242 which is calculated by the competent authority of the unit of local self-government. I suppose this member would have to refer to a protected tenant who entered a public property apartment, but since all the laws that were previously quoted, this member could then refer to any other person who uses a public property apartment. I assume again that the intention is to pay the amount of this lease only to the person who received the second apartment on the basis of funds from the budget of the Republic and local self-government, and not to other persons who are on the other basis in public property that are not subject to restitution. It remains a vague norm and therefore needs to be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12303	Thank you. The title above the 150th and the 150th amendment was filed by Gordana Comic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12304	In particular, the right to an apartment in a task that has not renewed work is being specifically discussed. There are those in Belgrade and Novi Sad and cities in central Serbia and in their sole position, Article 150 says: "The tenant of the apartment for an indefinite amount of time belonging to the task which is in the process before the Restitution Agency has been legally rejected, i.e. ownership of that apartment has the right to acquire property over that apartment in accordance with Article 149." How many of these apartments are there? I tried to see, since I claim there is no change or management without measurement, so I tried to come up with a solution from the Agency for Restitution issued that the responsibilities rejected the property claims. Probably not enough of my work to do, I haven't been able to see any flats. It's possible there's one. Do you need a member of the law who will define what happens to the apartment that belonged to the employee, who has been denied the right to property by the Agency, or is this a kind of intention that any next employee who submits an application over his former property, if the Agency for Restitution is denied a claim, that the tenant in that apartment has the right to purchase an apartment? I'm not sure we won't get it, I won't take it, we won't get a constitutional court appeal for this member. It's this normative optimism that I'm talking about, which can easily create bigger problems in the overall intention of law enforcement than it intends to really solve problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12305	The title above Article 150 of the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the Minister if he accepts the amendment to Article 150?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12306	Yeah. I'll take it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12307	The amendment accepted. Parliamentarians of the DS Group jointly submitted the amendment to Article 150. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12308	I thank you, with Mrs Gojkovic's request to ask the Minister if we accept our amendments as well, since this is the only way to get involved in the debate, otherwise we see her not interested for the past five hours. We propose this amendment that those protected tenants, which you continue to call protected for unknown reasons, although they are not protected, who live in dwellings belonging to the borrowings, or foundations that have not renewed their work, are now entitled by all citizens in this country to buy out apartments in which they have so far lived. It is the right in 1992 to deny it on the basis of a debt requirement, or a foundation to return the apartment to their property. If the foundation or the employee has not renewed its work, it does not exist, we now believe that the obstacle to buying these apartments has been removed. And you could, this, if your intention is so great to correct the injustices, this is what you could do to correct this one unfair portion of protected residents who didn't live in private-owned apartments, but those who lived in apartments owned by loans or foundations, and those loans or foundations that didn't restore their work, they don't exist anymore, and these apartments remain apartments in public property. It is unclear why you will not accept it now to allow them simply to be equal with all other citizens of this country. You don't need to make any concessions to them, they don't live in other people's apartments, now that that debt hasn't renewed their work, they live in apartments that are publicly owned, state, or social, and now it's unclear why you won't even do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12309	Thank you. The name above the 151st and 151st amendment was submitted by Gordana Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12310	In his first position, Article 151 defines what is a cash compensation for the appropriate apartment, so he says that unless the unit of local self-government provides an apartment for a moveover, it is a person who is a protected tenant and has the right to be in an apartment with another owner, a natural person, a employee, a foundation, and in 2026 to move to another apartment, so if there is no such apartment because it is not provided, the unit of local self-government, then he is obliged to pay the tenant indefinitely for a cash compensation in the value of the appropriate apartment. So we hope in 2026 that the revenues of local self-government will be such that we will be able to pay all protected tenants in the amount of the appropriate apartment or we will be able to pay those fees to the owners of the apartments. This is how I read Section 1. refers to tenants who are not provided with a move-in apartment within the time limit provided for by this law. Details of what exactly the amount of cash compensation is, I tried to calculate. However an account is made, where it is placed in figures, i.e. numbers, parameters, both from NBS and confirmation of the basis of the transfer tax, etc., it is difficult to obtain a payment of a cash fee that would be greater than minimum for an apartment that is not in the first category and has less than 50 square meters.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12311	The amendment was submitted by the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications to Article 151 of the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the Minister if he accepts this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12312	Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12313	The amendment accepted. The names above Articles 152 and 152 of the amendment in the same text were submitted by Gordana Komic and the MPs of the LSV group together.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12314	The use of housing in public property on the basis of the rights acquired under previous regulations. It is said, then, that the person using the apartment in public property, based on a judicial decision to rent an apartment for a specified time, which has been made in accordance with a regulation on the resolution of the housing needs of elected and employees, etc. In this article and in 153 and 154 it speaks of their right to purchase the apartment. All these three members have been removed from the law by amendments. And it's a good thing that the Minister made that decision, although we are told here that these members were behind honorable intentions. I can understand a lot, but that something that has an honorable intention doesn't come up with a good response, but comes across an amendment from the ruling coalition to wipe it out of the law, which is more difficult to understand. But I understand the intention. And it is good, I repeat, that the minister is not the first time that she has shown a relatively rare quality in relation to her other colleagues and colleagues from the government, that she is faced with reality and that she is making a good move when it comes to the bill she makes to the Assembly or that she discusses as a draft and a proposal. So I'm not answering Article 153. These members don't actually exist in law anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12315	On Article 152, the amendment was submitted by Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? On behalf of members 153 and member of the 153rd amendment in the same text, Gordana Komic and the MPs of the LSV group together submitted their name.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12316	I will not explain, I just have to express my satisfaction that the amendment to "expect" a member of the ruling coalition has been accepted. I can't help it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12317	On behalf of members 153 and Article 153 of the amendment, Katarina Rakic submitted. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the same text, Dusan Pavlovic and the MPs of the DS Group together, submitted to the 153rd amendment. The word is by MP Dusan Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12318	Thank you. I'd like to say what was contained in this amendment. I'm interested, too, which is why it was accepted that this amendment should be withdrawn. So it's about flats in public property and selling them to current tenants. The first thing I'm interested in is how did these members actually find themselves in this law? What is the reason for them to be put into a law called the House and Building Management Act, since what these members do has nothing to do with building management housing, but with housing that is in public property and which are to be sold? That's the first one. Secondly, it determines that apartments are sold exclusively to current tenants. Citizens and some MPs who were in the previous session may recall that similar provisions in these three members were already on the Assembly's agenda a year and a half ago, that the Assembly had passed such a law, so they were selling apartments in public property, and that then President Nikolic returned the law, or he did not want to sign it with a very well-founded explanation that he was violating the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia because he did not treat all citizens equally. Namely, the same thing is repeated again. The priority in buying these apartments is the tenants, not all Serbian citizens. So, say, since I'm not a tenant, I can't even apply to buy it. Whoever lives in it right now can. It's the same mistake again. Was that why you pulled these members?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12319	The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12320	Thank you. It is necessary to say what was written in the article which was deleted by the amendment of the Rakic People's Parliament, but not by the amendments in which we have invested, I am quite sure, before it, but it does not matter because it is good that it has been deleted. It's a good thing it was erased because it was an extremely harmful member. It was a member who, for the second time in a year now, you tried to make it possible for your officials, appointed and appointed persons to buy out apartments that they had received for use. This time, persuading us that it was God's fault for the wounded and the dead officers and their families, although they never mentioned themselves anywhere in this article that was now deleted. On the contrary, the appointed and appointed persons, no police officers, and it is known that both ministerial assistants and state secretaries who are not from Belgrade, who work in Belgrade in the government of the Republic of Serbia, have the right to receive an apartment if they do not live in Belgrade. It is they who fall under this category of persons who could buy these apartments for a period of 20 years without interest, under conditions that are for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as our president would say to ordinary citizens of the Republic of Serbia, absolutely unimaginable. It is also true that you did not delete this article because the Rakic MP realized that it should be deleted, so she tabled the amendment. You didn't delete this article until it came out in the paper what you intend to do. You did it under public pressure, because what you're saying is that you really meant to solve the housing problems of the families of the dead cops, then you shouldn't have wiped it out.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12321	Thank you. You'll continue next time. Member of the 153rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the Devere Parliamentary Group have jointly submitted to Article 153 of the amendment. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12322	It is clear what the legislator's intention was with this member of the law. Fortunately, it didn't go away. We would like to point out that, besides those appointed and appointed and appointed and who are officials, public officials, government officials or directors in some public enterprises, there is a circle of people who are really in trouble. For example, you have various companies or some public institutions that have given their workers, and most often low-skilled workers who work for the least personal incomes, the smallest earnings, certain sheds, certain warehouses, certain garages that these faces have turned into their housing units and live here with their families. So they fall under one of these, and they're not allowed to buy their housing units. That is why we have proposed that certain conditions be introduced which persons could acquire this right that you have provided for this Article 153, which would certainly not be politicians, would not be well-paid directors, but would just be those poor persons. From experience, let's say, I know that where my wife works, there's a large number of people, who are workers, some of them have escaped in the 1990s, some of them have been paid the lowest without qualifications doing their jobs, that it's a science research facility, specifically, assigned them sheds, assigned them certain garages, and people live here with families. They invested in these facilities, turned them into their own living space, but they can't buy it. There's a problem. In particular, the Institute for Corn Zemun Polje, for example. This problem exists, and let's make some moderation to allow that poor girl to get real. With this proposal, as you formulated, unfortunately it wasn't because of these people, it was just opening up the possibility of abuse. Let's do something that would give precise criteria for the poor to come to their right.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12323	The names above Articles 154 and 154 of the amendment, in the same text, were submitted by Gordana Komic and the joint MPs of the LSV parliamentary group. The name above Articles 154 and 154 of the amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? The amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic to Article 154. The word is by MP Dusan Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12324	As for the previous amendment, and for this amendment, I have suggested that it be deleted. I want to explain why I did it. So, once again, it's about apartments in public property that are offered exclusively to current tenants to buy on fairly favourable terms. Look at what it says here, it's said that their price will be determined at market value, but that will determine...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12325	Excuse me, are we talking about the same amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12326	Yeah, yeah. Article 154.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12327	Article 154. The contract on the purchase of the apartment contains address information, a place with a post office number... That's why I'm intervention.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12328	Okay. Why are you intervened?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12329	No, no, you're talking about the price, so I don't have that text. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12330	I'm talking about the price these apartments sell at. Can I go on? It's determined by the municipal organ. So it is like a market price, but it will be determined by the municipal authority, so let's ask ourselves, who are the people who are most likely to live in those apartments that will get that right? These are people who are close to the regime, currently close to the regime. This is how the regime buys support from individuals, influential, less influential, some political officials who support the regime, for example, the president or members of smaller parties who provide support in return. They have access to these apartments, these resources...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12331	I'm sorry, but you're talking about Article 153, not 154, definitely. I'm very persistent, but 154 has nothing to do with what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12332	You don't think it applies to public-owned apartments, do you?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12333	The contract on the purchase of an apartment contains, in particular, information from the contracting parties on the apartment which is the subject of purchase. So I don't understand. The contract referred to in Article 1 shall be concluded by the owner of the apartment in accordance with the law governing public property. The seller will unilaterally terminate the purchase contract.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12334	I filed an amendment to delete myself and explain why I don't want a contract to be made for the purchase of such apartments. Is that okay? Since you took half my time...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12335	Since we've been discussing this for three days, we're not gonna die in 10-20 seconds, so I'm gonna give it to you, but you're not talking about that amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12336	If you say I'm not talking, then it's okay, all right.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12337	On behalf of members 155th and 155th, the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Comic. (Marian Risticevic, from the post: I applied for the amendment. I apologize to Gordani Komic. Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12338	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in time I signed up, Madam Chairman, here's a reason why an amendment that reads should not be accepted - is deleted. I'm afraid my esteemed colleague professor has made a little bit of a mistake, that he has not read his amendment or the law of Article 154 that speaks of contracts. Speaking of contracts, he could have read from his boss's practice, how those unfortunate clients in Delta Law, whose bankruptcy manager was, we already know who, how they ran out of flats because the bankruptcy manager was someone and if they had valid contracts. That could have been spoken of by my dear colleague, Professor, and to say in the end as a farmer, whom the professor turned his back on not only me but the coat of arms, the flag, the president, etc., to say that it doesn't matter how many books have been read, but what you taught them, and the professor is the best example for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12339	About this next one. The same one. The name above the 155th and 155th amendment was submitted by Gordana Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12340	And it's an amendment -- it's deleted. I once again express my satisfaction and my regret that the MPs do not listen to the course of the debate, so they put themselves in a position to turn out uninformed. The same amendment is the same as the amendment of the National Parliament of Katarina Rakić – it is deleted, which was accepted as Article 154, Article 153, 152, as well as the MP Dusan Pavlovic – is deleted. I have expressed my satisfaction and would save a lot of time if, before we wish to violate the Rules of Procedure, we were listening to the debate on amendments. Why delete Article 155? Non-profit stable organisations established under the Social Housing Act, which is hereby put out of force, are obliged to comply with their work with the provisions of this law within nine months of the entry into force of this law. It's normal optimism again. So, they're only mentioned to be done by local self-government. You no longer have anything to do with non-profit housing organisations and what involves them is probably a founding act, and it involves a three-month period longer than it was given to local self-governments to establish. I understand that logic. But regardless of what I believe should be deleted, as has been accepted by the three amendments – it is deleted, the ruling coalition's representative, which I am pleased with, I think the ministry, since it will remain this member, would have had to have some special direction for local self-government. Those who work nonprofits, they know what to do, but local self-governments don't know, so it's not a sublegal act, this is my wish when I see something that might be applied, which is not part of the law, to share it with you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12341	Thank you. Ambassador Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12342	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I understand a little bit about the Wolf Cyrillic. It says here – Katarina Rakic suggested that article 154 be changed, not deleted. It writes – changes the procedures for addressing the housing needs of decisions made under previous regulations. It is an amendment proposed by Mrs. Rakic. So, he didn't suggest -- it was deleted, so my esteemed colleague was wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12343	On behalf of the above-Articles 156 and Article 156 of the amendment, MP Gordana Comic tabled. Do you want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12344	I thank again that a member of the ruling coalition has proposed amendments – it is deleted, for other members of this law, as well as MP Dusan Pavlovic. So, Article 156, I suggest that it be deleted, because I do not want any member of this law to come into force, because I mean that it will be inapplicable because of the normative optimism, because of the inconsistencies and because of what we have come into this debate in the debate and in the conversation, as controversial. Since it is near the end of the debate, I will, along with Article 156, which is logical to delete, because it implies that the Republic Housing Agency will stop working, because all of its powers are lifted and all of it is transferred to the Ministry. Even if I did not have the view that this law is inapplicable, it is not good to have an attitude that the Ministry can do all kinds of jobs. It's not good. It is not good to transfer the Chemical Agency to the Ministry, it is not good to remove independent bodies such as administrations and transfer them to the Ministry. We're gonna have to go through one phase, and we're all gonna see that that's not good, and then we're gonna come back. We're gonna waste a little time here, but it's probably inevitable. So we need to measure what we want to change. The end of the work of the Republic Housing Agency is, let's say, one of the members of this law that will be applied and I don't take it as an illustration that it won't, but at the end of this debate, I would like to report again, I repeat that no matter what the minister does not participate in the debate, it is a good thing that we still have dialogues that certain amendments are important and amendments are accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12345	Thank you. On Article 156, the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. National MP Sonja Pavlovic submitted the amendment to Article 157. The name above Article 157 and Article 157 of the amendment was filed by Gordana Comic. Members of the 157th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Nenad Konstantinovic. The People's MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted together on Article 157 of the amendment. Alexandra Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12346	Thank you. This is the last amendment we have submitted to this poor and damaging bill. We predict it to cease to apply the provisions of the law that we have provided for to regulate the issue of rights of protected residents to certain rights that you have denied them, but it is obvious that since you have not accepted other amendments to this subject, you are determined to resolve this issue in this most unfair way, and a way that does not satisfy the owners or protected tenants, I repeat the so-called protected tenants, because they are not protected by anything, but they will not be the only ones who will suffer for this law. All people living in buildings will soon see what this law gives them. It brings them new costs, brings them managers of buildings from the Serbian Progressive Party, gathers data about them that these people should not collect, makes decisions that will be made in their buildings that will bind them, and in which they will not participate because of the various ways you have found to bypass those tenants who would eventually oppose what the building managers want to make as a decision in each building. Brings them an obligation that you still did not deny to renovate the facade of the building at the moment when Goran Vesic is made simply ugly, or say Goran Vesic lies when he said it and did not say true information, or say it will be. Because either you're wrong or he's wrong. All in all is a bad bill that will cost citizens only and absolutely nothing good from it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12347	Thank you. The 157th amendment was submitted by Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On behalf of the above 158th member and member of the 158th amendment, Gordana Komic submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12348	The last member in the bill speaks of the date of entry into force and will enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", so that 2017 will begin with this law in force. Since my amendment that this law does not enter into force will not be accepted and the law will come into force with some amendments. I have a request for the Minister, the Ministry and the Public Services to agree on a special protocol on information on the provisions of the Housing Act. I have no doubt that the Ministry may have this in mind, but it is unusually important for people to be on time, timely, timely and timely informative of the deadlines, the obligations and the monetary and legal ones that come from the application of this law, I would say the attempts to apply this law, stand out for all citizens living in Serbia. Between this law and the Family Law in Serbia, which is a small constitution and the Constitution, which is the highest act, is only the difference when families are concerned then it is the law that applies to all of us living members who make up the state of Serbia, and this law relating to housing makes it an impact on the lives of all of us who live in something in Serbia. I have no doubt that the Ministry will have in mind the importance of timely, clear and timely information on the deadlines, on the legal obligations that arise for all of us living in Serbia. You may be bored at first, but it's important that people know that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12349	Since we've completed the search on all amendments, I've concluded the review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Before we move to the next item on the agenda, five minutes break. [[after breaks]] We can keep going. Someone asked me how many more amendments there are. There's 27 left over in the rest of your time, so now you can choose what's most important to you. You have received amendments submitted by MPs, as well as by the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, on the draft law. You've received reports from the competent committees and the government's opinions. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted together to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted together to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jasmina Nikolic. The 3rd amendment, with a correction, was submitted by a Member of the Parliament of Stefan Miladanovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jasmina Nikolic. Members of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted together to the 5th amendment. Members of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted together to the 6th amendment. The 6th amendment, with a correction, was filed by Ambassador Jasmina Nikolic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Do you want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Members of the Social Democratic League of the League of Vojvodina submitted together to the 6th Amendment. Members of the Social Democratic League of the League of Vojvodina submitted together to the 10th Amendment. Representatives Gorica Gajic, Milan Lapčević and Dejan Sulkic together submitted to the 10th amendment. The word is Gorica Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12351	Thank you, Madam President. The Democratic Party of Serbia has submitted a dozen amendments under this proposal for a law on the transport of dangerous goods, and I will look back only on the pair. Articles 9 and 10. The bill provides for three categories of dangers that can arise in the transport of dangerous goods, as well as the basic conditions and measures that should be met and taken by these participants in the transport of dangerous goods, so that emergency situations do not arise and no harm will be done. However, in the old, now applicable law, Article 8 provides that participants of transport dangerous goods should be provided in the event of damage to either the environment or any other person, and in this proposal there is no provision. So, what if this emergency happens? What if someone gets hurt? It is predicted only that the transport participant will pick up potentially scattered dangerous goods, but it is not envisaged to compensate for the damage done in the emergency situation. So, we have proposed an amendment where we would add Article 10a, which would read – a participant in the transport of dangerous goods is required to ensure that dangerous goods are transported to the persons, property and environment, in accordance with the law. Simple, an objection to a new bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12352	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12353	Let me explain. Yeah, we lifted that mandatory insurance for a few reasons. First, our insurance companies accepted it, but with one amazing thing, which is that 85% of the insurance company has to make up for it, and that's all they've come up with is insurance. On the other hand, the issue of insurance itself does not exist in any EU country except Croatia and Slovenia. But the bottom line is this is one thing I said. So that's not the way to solve it, because the damages that we're talking about in this action, in this law, are so high-value, that you can imagine now this insurance where 85% of the insurance company needs to make up for it. That was why, in order not to burden ourselves, we removed mandatory insurance.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12354	Thank you. You can use five minutes plus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12355	Madam Minister, it is true that these are very big damages, but I ask you one more time – how will this damage be compensated to whoever suffered it? Who's gonna pay for that?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12356	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by the National MP Stefana Miladanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment, with the correction, was submitted by the MP Stefana Miladanovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12357	Agree and accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12358	The amendment is accepted. The 34th Amendment was submitted by the National MP Stefana Miladanovic. The 36th Amendment was submitted by Parliament member Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević and Dejan Šulkic. National MP Gorica Gajic submitted to the 36th amendment. National MPs Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapcevic submitted together to the 39th amendment. Members of the Social Democrats of the League of the League of the Duchy of Vojvodina submitted together to the 41st Amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 44 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by the National MP Stefana Miladanovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the parliamentary group, the Democratic Party, submitted together to the 46th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12359	Our amendment changes the position of Article 1 46, which reads in the original text of the law – transporting dangerous cargo on the road controls police officers in the regular control of road traffic participants, according to ADR. We have asked that attitude 1 - the transport of dangerous cargo on the road is controlled by inspectors with a passed test for advisers in the safety of the transport of dangerous cargo, in accordance with ADR. An explanation of why you do not accept it is that it is not accepted because the content of our amendment is prescribed in Article 62(6) but Article 62(6) says - the inspector must have a security advisor certificate issued in accordance with this law, as if he meets the requirements of the inspector prescribed by the law governing inspection supervision. You describe what the inspector must have, and I say he has to be with the burden. That's two different things. It would be good if you accepted this amendment. It's only a matter of time before we change this law, because a police officer shouldn't be the one, under the bill of law, who will be in the regular control of traffic controllers, but rather the inspector who is with the examination of transport security advisors. We can do this, but we think that the solution that we are inevitably better off with is applied immediately than later.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12360	Thank you. I'm not sure if I read the amendment to Article 27. The Committee on Spatial Planning, Traffic, Infrastructure and Telecommunications. Did I ask you if you accepted the amendment? All right, the amendment has been accepted. It's better to be accepted twice than to stay behind. The 46th amendment was submitted by the National MP Stefana Miladanovic. The 46th amendment with the correction was brought together by MPs Gorica Gajic, Milan Lapcevic and Dejan Sulkic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 47th amendment with the correction, the MPs Gorica Gajic, Milan Lapčević and Dejan Šulkic together submitted. The word is Gorica Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12361	Thank you, Madam President. The Democratic Party of Serbia submitted only briefly to Article 47(2) after the word "ADR" is added to the words "when the ADR agreement is foreseen". In fact, this is about the handling of customs authorities and the control of certificates that transporters have with them when transporting dangerous goods. We simply wanted when we talked to experts who understood the area, they simply drew attention to the fact that this new bill is now twice as long and is mainly based on all these agreements referred to in Article 4. It's a bill of law. It's volumes, thousands of pages. Have those thousands of pages been translated? Imagine one transporter or one tanker or driver of any dangerous goods being able to run and turn at the moment when something happens, because the whole law is filled with suggestions, technical suggestions. We're calling for attitudes, sections of all these agreements, and I'm not counting them here right now. It's simple, we're wondering if he had to pass a brand-new bill, why he's no longer a sublegal act technically governed by the law so far. It's just easier by means of sublaws to technically dress it up and introduce all these sections from signed international agreements that certainly oblige us in what way we must treat the transport of dangerous goods. We've been paying more attention to this over-indulgence and the abundance of the new bill, we're thinking needlessly. Now, that was our proposal and the reason why we submitted the amendment to this article.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12362	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12363	Just for a little while, because of the transporter, as you say, everything has been translated into "the official messenger" as well on the site. So we have a translation.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12364	The People's MPs of the Dveri Group submitted to Article 52 of the amendment. The word is Dragan Vesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12365	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Otherwise, in the opinion of the Serbian Dveri Movement, a correct law which we will probably support at the vote, and here we had the idea that, after Article 52, we would complement Article 52 with Article 52a, where the Ministry of Traffic Affairs is obliged to exercise control of the route of movement before issuing a license for transport of dangerous materials in order to verify the correctness of the railway station. We thought primarily of dangerous materials that could be transported by rail traffic, and since we didn't see that extra security in the other members of the law, our wish was to make this amendment and predict it. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12366	The 52nd amendment was submitted by the National MP Stefana Miladanovic. The People's MPs of the Dveri Group submitted to Article 61 of the amendment. Member of the 66th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted to Article 68 by MP Zoran Zivkovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Dveri group submitted to Article 68 of the amendment. The word has Srdjan Nogo.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12367	We have provided for greater punishments with this amendment. So instead of 150,000 to 2 million dinars being fines of 300,000 to 3 million dinars. And also for a responsible person in headings 25,000 to 150,000 is replaced by a fine of 50,000 to 200,000. We think it's about transporting the most dangerous materials possible, you listed explosive, radioactive material. In this case, for the sake of citizens' safety, it may be necessary to lay down even more stringent sanctions for legal persons and for responsible persons in legal persons engaged in the transport of these materials in order to force them to carry out their job as securely as possible, again in accordance with the interests and security of citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12368	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12369	Let me just say that I agree with your comment and we will accept your amendment and it will be an integral part of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12370	This amendment shall be adopted. Member of the 69th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Dveri Group submitted to Article 69 of the amendment. The word has Srdjan Nogo.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12371	Same as for the previous amendment. Reason, increasing penalties again to make businessmen, i.e. persons involved in the transport of these dangerous materials behave more securely and more responsiblely.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12372	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12373	As before, I accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12374	The amendment is accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic submitted to the 70th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 71 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 72 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Dveri group submitted to Article 74 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 76 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs of the Dveri Group submitted to Article 78 of the amendment. The word has Srdjan Nogo.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12375	Thank you. The goal is to reduce the deadline set out in Article 2 of the 2nd of the year that the minister in charge of the area must bring sublaws to a year. You yourself know that without sublegislative acts, it is not possible to finalise this whole matter, and given the importance of such a law, we believe that it is necessary as soon as possible to pass the sublegislative acts, thus harmonising this position 2 with the position 3. So we think that you might also accept this amendment in accordance with, as well as these two previous ones that we have verbally explained, because we believe that a two-year period is still inappropriately long for sublegal acts.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12376	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications to Article 80. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Minister, do you accept this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12377	Yeah, I'll take it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12378	National MPs Predrag Jelenković, Meso Omerovic, Ivan Bauer, submitted together to the 80th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications submitted to Article 81 of the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the Minister if he accepts the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12379	I'll take it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12380	The amendment is accepted. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I'm setting a 20-minute break. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. You have received amendments submitted by MPs, as well as by the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, on the draft law. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made and the committees responsible. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On the 1st Amendment in the same text, Verica Radeta and Marina Ristic, together with MPs of the Democratic Party group, submitted together. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12382	Proposal for a Community Labour Act. We have submitted the amendment to Article 1. "is deleted", as we believe that solutions in the current law are much clearer than those proposed. I think the essence of the following, here, is that we adopt a set of laws, and in the light of the law itself, it is said that it is necessary to adopt a law on public property and, above all, to implement it, a law on concessions, a law on private-public partnership, communal activities and many other laws affecting these solutions. We know in what state our public utility systems are, especially at the local level, and you yourself, Minister, know the financial situation, and most often here the reason for the adoption of this law lies in the inefficient functioning of public utility systems and the need for them to privatise or give concessions to some of the activities. We have reacted this way because we think it is important to separate the communal actions that are of public interest, primarily from the public interest and aimed at the health of the population and the most necessary needs of the citizens of Serbia. That's what we mean by water, that's what we mean by the treatment of solid waste that affects health. We mean a lot of other things here, but these are definitely the most important things. So we're standing, and I'm going to repeat, that we shouldn't privatise or give under the water supply, primarily the infrastructure, because the essence of the plumbing is primarily in a pipeline that comes to every house in cities, municipalities and villages. We think that it is necessary to keep majority ownership above infrastructure and thus protect and health, as well as the population alone.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12383	Thank you. Members of the Parliament of the Dveri Group submitted together to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12384	Thank you. We provided that Article 1(1) of point 1 deletes the word “supervisory” to remain only this distribution, because we consider it to be a norming special supply independent of distribution, and on the other hand, the proposer in the part of the explanation of basic legal institutes and individual solutions does not define the activity of the supply of heat energy by any single word. I believe that the introduction of heat supply as a special communal activity would be increased costs that citizens should bear. You see, and in an explanation why you don't accept, you refer us to the Energy Act, where you say that the supply of heat energy has been declared a matter of general interest. But I'm asking you, unlike supply and distribution, why would it be necessary to reintroduce this particular normisation, why do we have to organize everything as an Electrodistribution? The power distribution used to be a unique distribution, so you invented that there was a special distribution, especially supply, so let's now organize these new activities everywhere. Why, for example, do you not have three ministries but are all united in one ministry? We don't have to arrange all of Serbia that way, or there's one toothpick in here, to introduce a public private partnership in the supply of heat, so there's a company that would be your heat supplier, unlike a heat energy distributor, and then we're going to put another cost on the citizens, or we're going to put a little more money in your private pockets. I believe that the word supply should be deleted, because it is in the citizens' interest and certainly if this remains, I am afraid that it contains one toothpick that will allow for additional costs, i.e. additional wealth for some private individuals.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12385	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Jasmina Obradovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the Democratic Party and Milorad Mircic and Aleksandra Belačić jointly submitted to the 2nd amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12386	At the shortest, the explanation for this amendment, but also for the law itself, is that by adopting this law and its realisation, and we know that it will not be easy to come to its realization because tomorrow we already have the adoption of the Law amending the Law on Public Property, in order to postpone its application for the next year, which means that at this time we do not have a precise list of public utility systems, nor local self-government, nor the AP, and therefore we are also passing the law on delaying the deadline, because it has failed, and we have warned this three years ago, when this deadline was extended, and this is the first prerequisite. Accurately defined assets are the first prerequisite to know what is the subject of the concession and what is the subject of the private public partnership. What do we get with this law? We'll get a more invaluable favor, but I'm sure it'll be more expensive. These are experiences from other countries and you know it well. The introduction of a concession of those contracts or private-public partnerships in the area of solid waste treatment or water supply has led many cities to major problems. You know, for example, Naples with a strike, a privatized city-wide waste transportation system, and the way that city later worked. These are some conditions that can happen to us. The second thing, what I want to say again, is that we are responsible for keeping what is of public interest to the citizens of Serbia. It's primarily infrastructure. In this case, with these public utility systems and what this law treats, retaining the state's ownership of water, pipeline and how it will protect Serbia's citizens' supply with healthy drinking water.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12387	Parliamentarians Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 2nd Amendment was submitted by Parliament Jasmina Obradovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Mr Goran Chabradi has submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Members of the Dveri parliamentary group Zoran Krasic and Vesna Vukalović Nikolic, together with the MPs of the DS group, submitted to the 3rd amendment in the same text. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12388	At first, I must say, and if it is adopted, and if this amendment is not adopted nothing will happen terrible for the exercise of communal activity, because this member, who has the title, is born neutrality of expression. When you look at the reason why this Article 3a was inserted, then you'll understand that every next law we get will have to have a member like this. Because I don't see why only in this law would he be such a member without being in other laws, then in the Excise Act, then in the Tax Act, etc. However, you misspelled this text. The only regulation with us that exists that has a similar provision is the Law on Prohibiting Discrimination. That is, all the concepts used in this law in the male race include the same concepts in the female race. In our instructions that regulations should be written, we also have a similar provision, that is, Article 43, says – they are used in the regulation in the male race, unless nature requires otherwise. Here is practically the main reason because there is a letter from the Commissioner for Equality, and nothing else. That's why I told you, by adopting, not adopting this amendment, nothing will happen in terms of cleaning, heating, plumbing, sewerage, but I beg you, in every law that comes here to insert Article 3a, to insert Article 3a, because that's the equality of expression. I would ask you to do another innovation, because we now have those who don't know if they're male, whether they're female, and you have to find a formula for that third non-existent generation. I think you have a few people in the government who can make a real contribution to that formula, so that's clear. I'm against being insulted by a woman, being insulted by a man, but I'm against being insulted by a third. It's possible that those afternoons feel like men, afternoons as women, in the evening they don't know what they are. Please include them next time, so there will be no discrimination, because at every step we have to fight discrimination.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12389	The minister has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12390	You didn't say anything wrong. I'm just sorry that you don't support this law as a gender-equal language, such as the Housing Act, such as the law we previously discussed, which is transporting dangerous goods. I'm expressing my regret, but maybe, hopefully, at some point in front of us, you might accept something like that. I'll be there to explain whatever it takes. Thank you. (Zoran Krasic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12391	She told the minister you don't mind, nothing wrong. I can let you continue on the amendment. The replica says, if anything is in the peri-species sense. I don't want to speculate. I don't think so. Marija Janjušević is the promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12392	Thank you. In fact, the minister confirmed the previous exhibitor's claims that this would now be pumped violently in each of the following laws. As a woman, I object, and we asked that this article be deleted, which reads: gender neutrality of expression. We believe that this article is simply too high, since no regulation has laid down the obligation to define the gender neutrality of the terms used in the regulations. This team before the provision of Article 43 of the uniform methodological rules for the production of rules is prescribed for the use of storks, so that, in accordance with the same expression in the regulation, they are used in the male race unless the nature of things requires otherwise. This is actually a breakthrough in radical feminist approach to nomotechnics, without any real reach on the field of gender equality. It's just that there won't be anything better for women, and moreover, we come here in danger if they have complaints about the quality of municipal services to delay all this while respecting that gender equality. You know how, I think it's all a detour from essential questions. It's important to women whether they've received a scholarship, a mother's allowance, a pension if they're in agriculture, whether they're provided with a systematic review. No one here argues that the position of women should be improved and improved, but not so that it is alienated from the male part of society. Nothing forced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12393	Thank you. Zorana Mihajlovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12394	I understand all of you, it's all right, but let me just say, since I specifically followed and wrote it down, so when we took part in the draft of the house and building maintenance bill, it's you, just like the person who's talking like that right now, you said - MPs and MPs, so maybe we thought it was a mistake, so you did it again. Just so you know, you probably didn't notice, but that's what you said. As for improving the position of women, yes, this House Bill is currently improving and dealing with, say, women victims of domestic and Parterian violence.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12395	Do you want to get the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12396	Just to explain to HvHhh that I'm not regretting anything. There's no regrets. There are words in male and female. My friend Milly understands me best. Milija and I mourn that Vuk Karadzic is not from Nis. Then everything would be much clearer in Serbia. Of course, so one thing is expressions, concepts, etc. The linguists have said theirs. It doesn't reach here, it's about something quite third. You know, we had a president before, so we had an acting president in 2003. So the linguists solved these things. Our methodological manual speaks of the modern Serbian language, and in order to avoid confusion, I have read a member of our 43rd instruction that prescribes all of this. There's no need to make this especially potent, because you can create confusion, a lying cop, a soldier, etc. It's offensive to women, believe me, it's offensive to professions. What's it gonna be like, a carpenter? Please don't. I say in respect of all genders – write and tell us how Vuk Karadzic taught us, as it says in our spelling. This about genders, etc., about expressions, it exists in international contracts and in rare international conventions. I don't know how many laws your ministry has passed here, is there any provision in every law? Well done. Then I'm absolutely uninformed. I can even be like the ones that aren't here. Well, then you've made a revolution. I'm asking you to influence the government to make mass use of it. So Article 2 all expressions are in the same status. I'm sorry, I didn't understand, but I still don't regret it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12397	My colleague Janjušević, you can follow the amendment. You have two and 20.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12398	I'll just take a minute. I'm very glad that you noticed that we don't mind, but we don't need to touch the nomotechnic, we don't need to impose. As a member of the Committee on Human Rights, I had the opportunity to meet with EU committees. Unfortunately, the signature obliges me not to talk about it, but I have seen what is most important to them. As far as I know, the governor is a woman. She insists on calling herself governor. Let's leave. Don't let the ideology of radical feminism spoil our society. We know, back in the last century, between the two wars, it's been invented that human rights are used to pressure large states into small countries, so they can carry out their national interests. I just want to avoid it. Let each one pronounce a generation as he pleases, and let our nomothechnik do as it is so far, and let our laws be applied, whether we say a messenger or a messenger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12399	The 4th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by Natasa Jovanovic and Jovo Ostojic and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12400	In Article 4, in addition to the fact that it is large enough to read it in the package, the last view states: “After Article 6, item 7, which reads – providing conditions for the provision of municipal activity includes activities to strengthen the capacity and functionality of municipal infrastructure, the provision of funding, the construction of municipal infrastructure, the activities to monitor the quality of municipal services, as well as the taking of measures for the continued operation of municipal activities in order to ensure the life needs of natural and legal persons. “ So that’s the plan and it’s the legislator’s wish to attract as much investment, private capital, concessionaires and those who want to enter a private public partnership in this area as possible. Once again, I want to think about it together, taking into account the experience, first of all, the countries in our environment, which have applied these solutions, and that is whether we expect that someone who would eventually enter a concession contract to distribute drinking water, and it is likely that the greatest interest will be due to the most efficient collection and possibility of exclusion will be of the highest interest to both the Belgrade plumbing and the new Sad, Nis, Vrsac, and some other cities. Do you think someone will come and invest in this infrastructure first based on this attitude? These are huge investments that have been invested in the last 50, 70, or maybe more years. So, mostly, someone who, thanks to these contracts, will, above all, raise the price level is likely to go with rationalization in these systems, public utility companies, a reduction in the number of workers, a reduction in costs, and thus achieve profit, and that is the only goal of those who enter a concession on contracts with the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12401	Thank you. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Parliamentarians of the Dveri Group submitted to the 4th Amendment together. The government and the Committee on Spatial Traffic Planning, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Miletic Mihajlovic and Stefana Miladanovic together tabled an amendment proposing that a new title and a new member of 4a be added after article 4. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, pursuant to Article 163(2). Rules of Procedure, he rejected this amendment. Members of the 5th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Savic and Zoran Krasic and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12402	Because of this limited time, I assume you've all read what this is all about. For us, it is unacceptable that this attitude in the answer is that you narrow something down here when it comes to Article 5. I must draw your attention that this species, as you say, is forbidden. All forms of property, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, are equal. That's what you need to know. Only, in certain areas, the organisational form of a company engaged in certain activities can be explicitly prescribed by law, so let's say banks must be stock companies etc. For all those who perform communal activity, the organisational form, whether it is a public enterprise, a society of capital, etc., it has its width and it needs to have its width. In this way, you've limited the activity that can only be public enterprises. I think you made a mistake. Now I'm going to show you on one case. 20km from Belgrade is Ritopek, he is next to the Danube. They don't have drinking water. I don't blame anyone for not getting me wrong. There were stories here 80 kilometers of the Great Plan, three investments, beer, no water, cracked pipes, etc., but these don't have any drinking water at all, there's no city water. Why? Are they counting the Danube is close, so they can drink water on the Danube or what? They will rot there with septic pits and some of their wells, etc. The public enterprise, however, is something that local self-government must influence to solve these things. If you go to a public-private partnership, if you go to a concession, etc., the question is whether a privateer will have an interest, because there are only 1,300 houses there. That's why you shouldn't have narrowed down the organisational forms of those who provide municipal services, but that's where you should have left this width, and that width was first installed in 2000 when the Law on Public Enterprises and Activities was upgraded of general interest. It was then the first time that a valve was created to compete with various properties in the pursuit of municipal activities, with due regard to the conduct of these operations. I don't think you should have made this amendment in Article 5.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12403	Thank you. (Srjan Nogo, from the scene: I hadn't heard from you since the last amendment. No, no, no, The amendment is the Democratic Party. Members of the Parliament of the Dveri Group submitted together to the 5th amendment. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12404	With our amendment, we wanted to preserve the management of cemeteries and funerals as a communal activity exclusively in the public sector, without introducing the possibility of private businesses being involved in the business. Burying and managing cemeteries is one thing of a sacral character, and I do not think it is in the interest of Serbian citizens to commercialise such an action. Imagine a situation where someone doesn't have the means to bury their neighbor. So far, it's always been a burden for local self-government, and now the question is, if a private manages a cemetery and has the possibility that it organizes a funeral as the only and exclusive in a given territory, how will it be settled for the benefit of the citizens? Generally, when we introduce a public-private partnership and introduce private entities into community action, we need to understand that they will go where the profits are guaranteed. They're basically monopolies and, as the previous speaker used to say, they'll go where they have an interest. Where they have no interest, they'll leave it to the state. So there's some expense, and there's a state that needs to subsidize, invest. It's not worth it, but where the opportunity to make the most of the income is, they'll certainly be scrambling to take the job. Examples and practices in countries like ours are not something that can encourage us. We saw it with some failed attempt at the Grock municipality, related to taking out the trash, that immediately there was a problem when some privates came in. We can also remember the experience of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, when water distribution and electricity distribution in many local areas were in the hands of foreigners, how much trouble this caused citizens. Please think carefully. In particular, only at the cemetery when it applies, because we believe that this activity should be excluded, but generally in public-private partnerships and their introduction into municipal activity should be extremely careful because of citizens' interests.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12405	Members of the 6th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Bozidar Delic and Marko Milenkovic and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12406	In Article 6(1), it states: "Articles 8 and 2 are amended and said: "The unit of local self-government is required to submit the report to the Ministry by the end of February of the current year in the prescribed form, in relation to the performance of municipal activity in the previous year. “ I hope that, Madam Minister, you have these reports from local public utility systems, and we would love, as an MP, and I hope all other colleagues and colleagues, that we have and get the first impression and information about what success public utility systems are working on at this point at local level. We have more information about public enterprises at central level, but on a local level it's just individual information from cities and municipalities that we usually come from. I think it would be important that we make the right decision about this law now, so that we know what state our public utility systems are in. When it comes to their responsibility, you really need to put the citizens in the center of every law, including this one. What's he got to decide? It is necessary to provide security and as cheap a public service as possible, the public needs of all citizens. Here's when we talk about infrastructure, we talk about water infrastructure, thermal infrastructure, and these are examples where we need to keep that property for both safety and accountability, public responsibility. On the other hand, the key question here is the goal, is to develop competition and introduce private capital to develop competition and to get better, better and cheaper services. Is it possible to develop competition on such a water infrastructure? If someone wants to build their own special plumbing and get to every house, it's possible it's going to be a good choice for citizens and it's going to be competition, but I don't think there were any such examples.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12407	The 6th amendment, with a correction, was filed by Meso Omerovic. Member of the 7th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs of the Dveri Group, together with Vjerica Radeta and Aleksandra Belačić, and together by MPs of the Democratic Party group. Does anyone want a word? Srjan Nogo.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12408	We propose that Article 7 be deleted because there is an unnecessary centralisation of the decision on the fulfilment of the conditions for carrying out municipal activity, with the conditions for carrying out municipal activities in neither this member nor the previous members being defined. We are putting into a state that there is an incomplete norm, which in practice could cause serious problems, arbitration and abuse. The damage is done to citizens, as they expect municipal activities to be carried out in a quick, efficient, timely and quality manner, rather than in accordance with the arbitration will of the competent minister who can make certain political decisions. Thus, such a member can enter into a small door and set up a business within the framework of communal activity to a loyal enterprise, or to advance party arrangements.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12409	On the 8th Amendment, in the same text... I'm sorry. Did you get that?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12410	I wanted the Minister's answer. I thought they'd answer this question. This is an important question. In recent years, we have adopted a set of laws that are systematically doing centralised, because the revenues of local self-government are reduced, they increase competences and their responsibilities, and on the other hand, there are fewer opportunities to affect those key problems right where real life is taking place. Real life is to provide people in cities, municipalities, drinking water, healthy drinking water, supply heat in a quality, cheap way, ensure the transport of solid waste, garbage and treatment at municipal dumps and much more. So there's not much time for that listing, but we're really going back to the process. I think we've gone through a serious process of showing increasing responsibility and growing trust in people at local level and of course the fact that they know best what they need locally. On this side, solutions are made that say – you do not understand well enough what your needs are, but we from the Ministry will make that kind of decision. It is therefore important to decide and adopt this amendment in this way. I think it's too high. (Srjan Nogo, from the post: By amendment. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12411	What do you say? There's still time. Let me see. He's got a minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12412	Generally, let's as long as we pay attention to this amendment, we have an interesting situation for the competent ministry to prescribe in previous laws, also the height of the current investment maintenance of buildings. Also, here, it prescribes certain conditions for municipal activities, so that we see the intention of the competent minister to edit all of those spheres of public life, i.e. the contacts that citizens have, above all, with the state and state bodies. There is an automatic possibility for considerable arbitration and for considerable interference in the pockets of these same citizens, and we believe that all these laws that we have discussed today have been at the expense of the interests of the Serbian citizens and that they will represent an additional imposition and further excerpt from the already poored pocket of our population. I don't really know what line you think you're taking money from people and what line you think you're pushing them into the pockets of your friends, associates, domestic or foreign.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12413	Members Sreto Perić and Dubravko Bojić and together MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojic, Goran Ješić, Gordana Komić, Balša Božović, Maja Vidinović, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic and Veroljub Stevanović submitted to the 8th amendment. The word has Dubravko Bojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12414	Thank you. In front of the SRS, my colleague Sreto Peric and I, we have submitted an amendment to Article 8 of this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Community Works. We demand that this Article 8A be deleted, which speaks of the fulfilment of the conditions for communal performance. In fact, the minister in charge of municipal affairs is educating a commission that has to assess the fulfilment of the conditions for dealing with this job. The Commission is represented by one representative of the Ministry of Economy, Energy, Environmental Protection, Water Management, Transport, Infrastructure, Finance, State Administration, Local Self-Government, Veterans, Fire Protection and Ministry. Only a representative of the hunting society and the pensioners' association is missing. We believe that this commission is unnecessary, that it is too bulky, because it includes 1/3 of the proposed representatives of the resolution ministry. We also believe that, gentlemen of the government, the legislators of this law, that it was a simpler solution for the competent ministry to collect opinions from other resolutions, thus strengthening the responsibility of both the resolution and other ministries in a joint decision. Maybe it's because of the speed of passing this law. In the package of the legislative proposal, the urgency of passing this law after a brief procedure, an emergency procedure, which does not suffer, please listen now – that the adoption of this law by emergency procedure would cause adverse consequences for the lives and health of people, the work of organs and organisations. Please, we've been living in this state for decades. If all of this were true, if all of this were true, we would have long been under the influence of Article 2 of the Law and its sixth municipal activity, and to remind you of all who are not in this topic, the sixth communal activity was the management of cemeteries and funerals, before there was the management of cemeteries and funeral services. I don't know why this shift.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12415	Thank you. You've wasted group time. Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12416	And in this article we see, of course, insufficient participation of people from the local level, because I think at first I said that the reason for these solutions is listed, and that is insufficiently efficient management of public utility systems, especially at the local level. I think the key solution is to establish effective management in these public, communal systems. It's been five years. Local self-governments, cities, with central authorities, were identified, there were no obstacles to the relations between central and local authorities, and I think that there are enough years of responsibility to make any public utility system at local level effective. This means, regardless, that it is more than 95% of the local self-government in Serbia, precisely with the ruling coalition, which has a majority here in the Republic Assembly, that it is important for these people to show both trust and respect, because they know best what their needs are. They have to be involved in every kind of solution, in many ways, not just by thinking about their own cities. A large number of municipal challenges are addressed not only in one city or municipality, but will be more effectively addressed if more cities are involved around the common objective. For example, the treatment of solid waste, common municipal dumps, are important for more cities around. When we talk about Nis, it's more important for Nis to do wastewater treatment for Pirot, so Nisha can get clear to Nis, but Nis, of course, has its own responsibility to pour pure Nischa into South Morav. So it is also necessary to invest in this cooperation in a way that will also be a future introduction to a natural course of regionalisation, and in particular natural regionalisation in these key topics.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12417	Members of the Devere parliamentary group submitted together to Article 8 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The word of the Messenger of the people is Srdjan Nogo.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12418	Article 8 paragraph 1 is proposed to delete where you provide for the exception of the rules set up by the Community Labour Act and we are looking for this erasure because you did not specify the conditions to be met by these economic operators that could be engaged in municipal activity. We think that's why he's inaccurate.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12419	The 8th Amendment with correction was submitted by National MP Jasmina Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 8th Amendment was submitted by Parliament member Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has the People's MP Katarina Rakic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12420	Thank you. This way I want to thank the ministry for accepting this amendment of mine, which is precisely why I was talking about in the principle debate, is that in our country it is not a monopoly that only public enterprises can do a kind of work but that something like this can continue to expand. So I certainly want to thank you for accepting such an amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12421	Thank you. Parliamentarians Petar Jojic and Nemanja Sarovic and the MPs of the DS group together submitted to the 9th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) The Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the Minister if he accepts this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12422	Amendment accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12423	Members Momcilo Mandic and Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić and the MPs of the DS group together, as well as Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic, submitted to the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Parliamentarians of the Dveri Group jointly submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Srdjan Nogo.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12424	Our amendment aims to meet citizens and that citizens can twice a year point to their opinion, or their view on the quality of the provision of municipal services, as well as possibly point to some shortcomings in providing them. According to your solution, it is once a year, so I think we work here for the benefit of the citizens and I don't see why it would not be made possible more often, and also, the other thing is that within a short time, it is done to remove those irregularities that the citizens have pointed out, and you have suggested that it be within 90 days. We cut that deadline by one third, or we put it as 60 days. So, to clarify, we give citizens one opportunity to be constantly in co-operation with local self-government, to be in greater interaction and that they can more often point to some of the problems that are made to them by suppliers of certain municipal activities, certain municipal services. So twice a year, it can go into analysis and processing and on a warrant to correct these shortcomings that have been accepted, and the citizens have pointed out to them, that this correction deadline is not ten days, but 60 days. We believe that if someone is already performing a communal activity, he must be able to adapt more quickly to the needs of citizens and it is an inappropriately long time so that you three months can't correct something that bothers citizens, and it's a service that's important, because not to lie, communal activities are a monopoly. We can't get that service provided by companies doing municipal work in some other way, so we're forced. We can't use it, we can't use it from someone else, so we're forced to use it from that subject, and he has three months to do some repairs, so that service is better. We don't think that's right.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12425	Thank you. The 11th amendment was submitted to the same text by Miljan Damjanovic and Ljiljana Mihajlovic and together Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinović and together the DS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 12th Amendment in the same text was brought together by Verica Radeta and LJljana Mihajlovic and together by MPs of the DS group. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 13th Amendment in the same text was submitted by Marija Janjusevic and joint MPs Milorad Mircic and Tomislav LJubenović and a joint parliamentary group of DS. The word is Maria Janjušević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12426	Thank you. Since this article predicts that local self-government can be a subcontractor who I assume will be more in 90% of cases a private person or a private firm, therefore local self-government can transfer all data on users to this person, to the personal home number of citizens, which directly violates the Constitution, Article 42 on the protection of personality data. So again on their backs next to all those charges, they get a private who's going to chase them, not to say he's exorcising debts. Trust her very much. The second thing, if they are subsidized services, local self-government assumes that within 30 days it pays off to a private person. Please, one idea has a currency of 60 days, not to mention that it's real about 100 days. So here the interests of local self-government are subordinated to the interests of subcontractors. Now, local self-government, if that 30-day deadline comes, has to pay before it has to pay for a warm meal in kindergarten or a subsidized transport or something like that. It's really not okay. Secondly, allow me, the People's MP, Marija Janjušević, writes here, and the MPs of Zoran and Vesna writes. So, it's not gender-sensitive, and I admit it, I've never noticed it before. Why? Because it doesn't matter. Because it's an important point, because it's about content and what we want to achieve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12427	Members of the 14th Amendment in the same text were brought together by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vesna Vukalovic Nikolic and joint MPs of the DS group. The word is Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12428	What we said about this amendment is that it's not supposed to change that member, but I mean, it's about the powers of municipal inspectors, you know what it's about. Communal activities and supervision in the exercise of these communal activities are moving in the work of public authority and entrusted affairs of the state administration. It's not good for you to prescribe something with one member and only have Belgrade in mind. A team before these things are even a little bit divided so there's something on the republican level and there's something on the local level. What's it worth writing here, going through a communal inspector, seeing a hole in the road, ordering it to be removed, and Major's municipality in the blockade? Many things in the field of municipal activity and control in the conduct of municipal activities are local self-government and each local self-government is in some way specific. What you wrote here really should apply to Belgrade, but already within 100 km of Belgrade it is impossible to apply. Believe it's impossible to apply. And there is no need to burden the regulation with something that we know will not apply in the good part of Serbia. I'm telling you, here we have a shared jurisdiction, the republic prescribes these frameworks where local self-government has some freedom, but keep an eye on when you prescribe those frameworks so that you don't impose a much greater obligation that local self-government can't meet. Take an example of Romania, which only now leaves after seven years from a disaster that took place with a public-private partnership and concessions throughout the spectrum of municipal activities in local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12429	Thank you. The word has Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12430	Since we are informed that this last amendment can be explained, I think it is also in this article, and my predecessor mentioned this, that the law is in some way the way towards further centralisation of Serbia. Further distrusting people at local level, and the essence of communal activity is actually caring about every citizen, and that is the essence, to put in the centre of every citizen of Serbia, people living in their houses, in their municipalities, villages, cities and ways to give them the opportunity to arrange their lives and make them as high-quality as possible. I think that incentive is more important than this kind and centralizing control and imposing some solutions. The idea is acceptable in the part where it has the desire to develop competition, to increase the quality of services and to therefore be expected to reduce the price of municipal services. Unfortunately, experience shows that prices are rising, and I have shown examples in some areas and therefore continue to insist on some important segments of municipal planning and cities and municipalities. These are the water lines for which I'm sure they'll be most interested, because it's the easiest thing to earn, because there's the infrastructure prepared, and because it distributes natural wealth through already existing pipelines that have been invested in for 50, 70, 80 years or more. I think it's one of the key aspects of security. We've talked a lot about it, but if you run 40, 50 kilometers from the drinking water spring, in the city of 300,000, two million, or however many residents, we have to take care of safety. And that's one of the aspects to talk about when we think about this, and I say it's hard, especially in these parts and segments, to develop competition, because the infrastructure is the one that restricts, and that's why I insisted that the state must stay with the gold action, especially when it comes to this strategic infrastructure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12431	Thank you. Dear Members, the time provided for in Article 158(4) The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for the interpretation of amendments by applicants for 10 hours have been spent on this amendment. That means I'm still just reading the amendments, no discussion. Members of the 14th Amendment, in the same text, were brought together by MPs Zoran Krasic and Vesna Vukalović Nikolic and joint MPs of the DS Group. Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport and Infrastructure and Telecommunications. I ask the Minister, does he accept this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12432	I'll take it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12433	On Article 15 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Natasa Jovanovic and Jovo Ostojic and the MPs of the DS Group together submitted together. Members of the 16th Amendment, in the same text, were brought together by MPs Nikola Savic and Zoran Krasic and together by MPs of the DS Group. The 16th Amendment was submitted by the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Minister, do you accept this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12434	Yes, the amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-21-0.u12435	Members of the 17th Amendment, in the same text, were brought together by MPs Milorad Mircic and Marko Milenkovic and together by MPs of the DS Group. On Article 18 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Nemanja Sarovic and Aleksandar Belačić and the MPs of the DS Group together submitted together. Members Sreto Peric and Dubravko Bojic and the MPs of the DS Group together submitted to the 19th amendment. On Article 20 of the amendment, in the same text, MPs Tomislav LJubenović and Nemanja Sarovic and the MPs of the DS Group together submitted. Members of the 21st Amendment, in the same text, were brought together by MPs Zoran Krasic and Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić and joint MPs of the DS Group. On the 22nd amendment in the same text, MPs Miljan Damjanovic and Sreto Peric and the MPs of the DS Group together submitted. On the 23rd amendment in the same text, the MPs Miroslav Stankovic Đuričić and Milorad Mircic and the MPs of the DS Group together submitted together. On Article 24 of the amendment in the same text, MPs Miljan Damjanovic and Vjerica Radeta and the MPs of the DS Group together submitted together. The amendment to Article 66 was brought together by lawmakers Natasa Jovanovic and Marina Ristic. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives rejected this amendment. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. The National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to public-private partnership and concessions. You've received amendments from the MPs. You have received a report from the competent committees and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I'm opening my rules of procedure to review the draft law in particular. On the 1st amendment in the same text, MPs Zoran Krasic and Nemanja Sarovic and the MPs of the DS Group together submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Parliamentarians of the DS Group jointly submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted together by MPs Vjerica Radet and Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the 3rd amendment in the same text, MPs Zoran Krasic and Nemanja Sarovic and the MPs of the DS Group together submitted. Parliamentarians Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Parliamentarians of the DS Group together submitted the 5th amendment. Parliamentarians Mrko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted the 5th amendment together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the 6th amendment in the same text, MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Zdravko Stankovic and joint MPs of the DS Group submitted together. The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Members Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic submitted the 7th amendment together. Parliamentarians Zoran Krasic and Verica Radeta submitted the 7th amendment together. On the 8th amendment in the same text, MPs Zoran Krasic and Natasa Jovanovic and the MPs of the DS Group together submitted. On the 9th amendment in the same text, the MPs Milorad Mirčić and Vjerica Radeta and the MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic together and for one MP of the DS Group. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the DS Group together submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the 11th amendment in the same text, MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Zdravko Stankovic and joint MPs of the DS Group submitted together. The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gorica Gajic, Milan Lapcevic and Dejan Sulkic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the Democratic Party Group together submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. Members of the Democratic Party Group together submitted to the 14th amendment. Members of the Democratic Party Group together submitted to the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the Democratic Party Group together submitted to Article 16 of the amendment. Members of the Democratic Party Group together submitted to the 17th amendment. Parliamentarians Zoran Krasic and Verica Radet submitted to the 17th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the Democratic Party Group together submitted to Article 18 of the amendment. Members of the Democratic Party Group together submitted to the 19th amendment. Representatives Gorica Gajic, Milan Lapčević and Dejan Sulkic together submitted the 19th amendment. Members of the Democratic Party Group together submitted to the 20th amendment. On the 21st amendment in the same text, Gorica Gajic, Milan Lapčević and Dejan Šukić, Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinović, Zdravko Stankovic, and together MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Members of the Democratic Party Group together submitted to the 22nd amendment. Both Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Zdravko Stankovic, and joint MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, submitted to the 23rd amendment in the same text. Members of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted together to Article 24 of the amendment. The 24th Amendment was jointly submitted by Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Zdravko Stankovic. On the 25th amendment in the same text, legislators Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Zdravko Stankovic, and together with the correction of MPs of the Democratic Party Group. Members of the Democratic Party Group jointly submitted to the 26th amendment. Members Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted the 26th amendment together. Members of the Democratic Party Group Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 27th amendment, in the same text. Members of the Democratic Party Group jointly submitted to the 28th amendment. Members of the Democratic Party Group jointly submitted to the 29th amendment. Members Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted the 29th amendment together. Members of the Democratic Party Group together submitted to the 30th amendment. Members of the Democratic Party Group together submitted to the 31st amendment. Members of the Democratic Party Group together submitted to Article 32 of the amendment. Members of the Democratic Party Group together submitted to Article 33 of the amendment. Members of the Democratic Party Group together submitted to the 34th amendment. Members of the Democratic Party Group together submitted to the 35th amendment. Members of the Democratic Party Group together submitted to the 36th amendment. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Dear Members of Parliament, since the National Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, given that it has already voted on points one to 14 and from 20 to 22 of the agenda, pursuant to Article 87(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly set Thursday, December 22nd, 2016, starting at 10pm as a day for voting on the remaining agenda points of the sixth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 119 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the e-system's parliamentary units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 133 MPs are present in the hall. I would like to inform you that he has been prevented from attending the session of MP Milisav Petronijevic. We move to a decision on the draft laws in paragraphs 15, 16, 17, 18 and 19 of the agenda. I'm putting it to a vote - a proposal for a law on air traffic management, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for– 135, v – one, abstention – one, did not vote one. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. On Chapter I, the name above the members and Article 1 of the amendment was filed by 12 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MPs Gorica Gajic, Milan Lapčević and Dejan Sulkic together submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of the above members and Article 2 of the amendment, 12 MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of the above members and of the 3rd amendment, 12 MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radet and Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Parliamentarians Milorad Mircic and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic together submitted the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic and Miljan Damjanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MPs Natasa Jovanovic and Jovo Ostojic together submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Chapter II, the name above the members and Article 4 of the amendment was filed by 12 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Savic and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of the above members and of the 5th amendment, 12 MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic and Mr Marko Milenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gorica Gajic, Milan Lapcevic and Dejan Sulkic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 6th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic and Aleksandra Belačić and 12 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of the above members and of the 7th amendment, 12 MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 7th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic and Vjerica Radet. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of the above members and of the 8th Amendment, 12 MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 8th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic and Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Gorica Gajic, Milan Lapčević and Dejan Sulkic together submitted the 8th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Social Democratic Party, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted a parliamentary group to the 8th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter 3, the name above the members and Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by the Democratic Party parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter 4, the name above the members and Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by the Democratic Party parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was submitted by the Devere parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted the name above the member and Article 12 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by the Devere parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Social Democratic Party, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted a parliamentary group to the 12th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted the name above the member and Article 13 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment was submitted by the Dveri parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted the name above the member and Article 14 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by the Devere parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the 5th and Article 15 of the amendment, the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The parliamentary group Social Democratic Party, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted an amendment to Article 15. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter 6, the name above the member and Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by the Democratic Party parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Gorica Gajic, Milan Lapčević and Dejan Sulkic together submitted the 16th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted the name above the member and Article 17 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 17th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Gorica Gajic, Milan Lapcevic and Dejan Šulkic and the Social Democratic Party MPs, the People's Movement of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter 7, the name above the members and Article 18 of the amendment was filed by 12 MPs from the Democratic Party Group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MPs Gorica Gajic, Milan Lapčević and Dejan Šulkic together submitted to Glava 7th and Article 18th. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic and Milorad Mircic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 12 MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted their name above the members and Article 19 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Gorica Gajic, Milan Lapčević and Dejan Sulkic together submitted the 19th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The parliamentary group Social Democratic Party, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 19th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted the name above the member and Article 20 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Gorica Gajic, Milan Lapčević and Dejan Sulkic together submitted the 20th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Social Democratic Party, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted a parliamentary group to the 20th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter 8 and Article 21 of the amendment was tabled by the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by the Devere parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to Article 22 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 22, the amendment was submitted by the Devere parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gorica Gajic, Milan Lapcevic and Dejan Sulkic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to Article 23 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we've completed our decision on the amendments, I'm putting to the vote a bill on airport management, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 140, against – 10, with abstentions – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on airport management. Next point. I put the bill on housing and building maintenance, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 140, against – 11, the abstentions – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The first name above Article 1 and Article 1 of the amendment was filed by Gordana Komic. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The first amendment was submitted by LJupka Mihajlovska. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the 2nd name above Article 2nd and Article 2nd, Gordana Comic submitted the amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the 3rd name above the Article 3rd and Article 3rd amendment, Gordana Komic submitted. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the Devere parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The SDS-NPS parliamentary group submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Sonja Pavlovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by Snezana Paunovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On chapter 2, the name above Article 4 and Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by Gordana Komic. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The name above Articles 5 and 5 of the amendment was submitted by Gordana Comic. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A member of the 5th amendment was submitted by the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The name above article 6 and Article 6 of the amendment was filed by Gordana Comic. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the Devere parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The name above Articles 7 and 7 of the amendment was submitted by Gordana Komic. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A member of the 7th amendment was submitted by the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The name above Articles 8 and 8 of the amendment was submitted by Gordana Komic. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The name above article 9 and Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by Gordana Komic. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was submitted by the Dveri parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Milena Bicanin, Meso Omerovic and Muamer Bačevac together submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The name above the article 10th and the article 10th amendment was submitted by Gordana Komic. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The name above article 11 and article 11 of the amendment was submitted by Gordana Comic. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was submitted by the Devere parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was submitted by Sonja Pavlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On section 2, the name above Article 12 and Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by Gordana Comic. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A member of the 12th amendment was submitted by the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The SDS-NPS parliamentary group submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The name above Articles 13 and 13 of the amendment was submitted by Gordana Comic. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment was submitted by Ana Stevanović. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by the LSV Group – Green Party. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The name above Articles 14 and 14 of the amendment was filed by Gordana Comic. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. They submitted Alexander Chabrai and the DS parliamentary group to the 14th amendment in the same text. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Sonja Pavlovic submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by the Devere parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter 3rd Section 1, the name above Article 15 and Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by Gordana Comic. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ana Stevanović submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A member of the 15th amendment was submitted by the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A member of the 15th amendment was submitted by the Devere parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of members of the 16th and the 16th Amendment, MP Gordana Komic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. A member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by the Devere parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The Social Democratic Party, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted a parliamentary group to the 16th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment was submitted to Article 16 by MP Sonja Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: One voted. Because you're playing and then you vote when I'm done and then we don't have a good one. (Marco Djurisic, from the post: We have 15 seconds. When I say I close the vote, it's over. You bet he voted one after the vote was concluded. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment, which is proposed to add the name of the member and the new member of the 16a, was submitted by 11 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of members 17th and Article 17th of the amendment, MP Gordana Komic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The Group of the Social Democratic Party, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted a parliamentary group to the 17th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of members 18th and Article 18th of the amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The Social Democratic Party, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted a parliamentary group to the 18th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. A member of the 18th amendment was submitted by the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of the above members of the 19th and of the 19th amendment, MP Gordana Komic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Ana Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 19th Amendment was submitted by the LSV Group – Green Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 19th Amendment were submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic and separate MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of members 20th and Article 20th of the amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 147 MPs I find that no amendment has been accepted. The Social Democratic Party, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted a parliamentary group to the 20th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. A member of the 20th amendment was submitted by the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by the Devere parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of members 21 and Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 21st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The Social Democratic Party, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted a parliamentary group to the 21st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The People's MP Gordana Comic submitted to the title above Articles 22 and 22 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 22, the amendment was submitted by the Devere parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of members 23 and Article 23, the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 23rd amendment was submitted by the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Movement of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 23rd Amendment was submitted by the Dveri parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of members 24th and Article 24th of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The National MP Alexander Chabrai submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members 25th and Article 25th of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the 26th and 26th Amendment, MP Gordana Komic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The parliamentary group Social Democratic Party, the National Movement of Serbia, submitted the 26th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment was submitted by the Devere parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members 27th and Article 27th of the amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th Amendment was submitted by the Dveri parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members 28th and Article 28th of the amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 28th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Milena Bicanin, Meho Omerovic and Muamer Bačevac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 28th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by Dusan Pavlovic and the Dveri parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members 29th and Article 29th of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members of the 30th and Article 30th amendments, MP Gordana Comic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by the Devere parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The parliamentary group Social Democratic Party, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted the 30th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members 31 and Article 31 of the amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to Article 31 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above member of the 32nd and member of the 32nd amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to Article 32 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members of the 33rd and member of the 33rd amendment, MP Gordana Komic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members of the 34th and the 34th Amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members 35 and member of the 35th amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 35th Amendment was submitted by the Devere parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote.
